the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are celebrating today, and i am very pleased to say so, the 30th anniversary of our common european single market, the benefits of which we can all enjoy every day. we can all order goods from anywhere in the european union. we can travel freely, we can study, work, live, have children, retire. our companies can all offer their services in the european union. and i looked at what this means for the european regions, especially for my home region. in fact, every second job in the country depends directly or indirectly on exports. and about 30 years ago, just over 3 billion euros of goods were exported from tyrol. today, or last year, it was 16 billion euros. and in nominal terms, that is an increase of an extraordinary 429 percent. so i think we're absolutely right to celebrate this birthday today. but we also see, especially in the pandemic, that the single market is shaken by crises. and that is why it is very important to me that one of the greatest achievements of the european union should not be a weather-beaten structure, but that we must constantly develop the internal market and that we must put more resilience into it. i would also like to return to the quote about falling in love, which we have heard many times today. jacques delors said that nobody falls in love with a single market. i think if we had him here today, could have him here, maybe he'd see it differently. i've been listening for the last two hours, and i've heard a lot of other things. i'm glad to hear it. happy birthday to the single market.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in 2021 over 130 000 tonnes of plastic waste were shipped abroad for recycling from austria alone. in february 2021, austria was forced to take back 100 tonnes of chemical-laden plastic waste from malaysia. this scandal was not just an embarrassment to the austrian green environment minister. this scandal also shows how problematic the export of waste can be. shipping 100 tons of garbage halfway around the world and back again is not really environmentally friendly, despite the best of intentions. so there is definitely a need for action here. but it is important to me that special consideration should be given to small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european data protection supervisor.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i look forward to the swedish presidency of the council because i am sure that two areas which are very close to my heart will be addressed: the competitiveness of the european economy on the one hand and concrete measures to solve our migration crisis on the other. firstly, everyone in this parliament must be interested in what our businesses need to be successful, innovative and competitive. because, after all, only entrepreneurs create jobs. there is an aggressive global competition for locations. that is why it is necessary to give our farms targeted support in these times of crisis. but nevertheless we must finally tackle the issue of excessive bureaucracy, because it is now leading to more and more emigration in europe, and every dossier we discuss in this house with regard to entrepreneurship leads to more bureaucratic requirements rather than fewer. your swedish epp members are already doing a very good job here, and i ask you to join us in working against this bureaucratic monster. secondly, on the subject of migration: the european union is once again facing a migration crisis. my home country, austria, is again one of the most affected countries, and although we are a landlocked country, 80 000 refugees are not registered in any other eu or schengen country. we urgently need a common migration policy. the council and parliament have already committed themselves to implementing the proposals of the asylum and migration pact. i am convinced that with your swedish experience we can find a good solution here. have a good day.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have already noted in the special committee on foreign influence on all democratic processes in the european union, including disinformation (inge 1) that there is "a serious lack of legally binding rules and enforcement regarding the eu lobby register" and that the eu "lacks the necessary tools to address the recruitment of elites". these are just two quotes from the final report of our committee, and to date we have not implemented much of it. the updated transparency rules do not yet exist, and recent events have shown how urgent and necessary they are. but in view of the events in qatar, morocco and perhaps other countries, we must not only quickly introduce greater transparency but also clearly distinguish ourselves from those countries which are trying to influence european decisions and european policy through individual members of parliament. that is why it is important that representatives of qatar no longer have access to this house, that all political decisions affecting qatar are suspended. the same applies to morocco, ladies and gentlemen, and i cannot understand why representatives of the moroccan parliament are here again. have we learned nothing from the recent events? we must finally set the record straight here, ladies and gentlemen! this is not just about qatar, it is also about morocco.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european investment bank is the only international financial institution owned by our member states and which contributes to the achievement of our common objectives through our legislation. she's doing an excellent job, and she's done an especially excellent job in 2021, during the pandemic, and we're talking about this year as well. the report clearly demonstrates that the european investment bank is continuously contributing to innovation and development in capital markets and is meeting the highest standards. the eib has continued to maintain a solid liquidity position despite the impact of the pandemic, which was still significant during the period under review. the eib is making a major contribution not only to large companies but also to smes. in total, more than 431 000 smes benefited from loans of eur 45 billion in 2021. this, of course, has been a major factor in keeping jobs in the middle of the pandemic. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of its citizens. in any case, it is necessary that access to finance, including digitalisation, remains a priority. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. i welcome the investment made by the european investment fund in education and thus directly in the labour market. the single market is characterised by the availability of skilled workers, which is a key challenge for our future. i hope that in future we will also use these funds for education to support the spread of dual training in europe, because germany, switzerland and austria have shown that this system is the best means of promoting employment and combating youth unemployment, and thus also the guarantor of social peace in the member states. this would also mean that we would need less funding from the european globalisation adjustment fund to support reintegration into the labour market. the pandemic has shown that the eib needs to work to reduce structural disparities between member states. as a solution, it will promote a consistent implementation of the cohesion policy guidance paper for the period 2021-2027. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes. this high level of responsibility for the management of eu funds by the eib requires control and transparency to ensure that these investments are effective. in this respect, enhanced cooperation between the european investment bank and the eppo, the european public prosecutor's office, is an important step towards protecting our eu funds from money laundering, corruption and fraud. the process of economic transformation can only succeed through digitisation, innovation and research. these issues must therefore remain at the top of the eib's agenda. we must not lose the attractiveness of our economic location and risk the departure of european companies, because that will certainly mean a loss of prosperity and quality of life in europe.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank you very much for the debate and for the good cooperation on this report. we know that the european investment bank is not finished. on the contrary, you will continue to face major challenges, whether it is the continuation of financial support for ukraine, the sustainable transformation of the economy, the european response to the inflation reduction act - that is to say, the competitiveness of europe - and much more, as colleagues have told you today. i would like to thank you, commissioner, and your team, and i can only wish you much success in your future activities.
the commission has already done so. the fight against crime affecting the eu's financial interests is of paramount importance for the budget and, above all, for the confidence of citizens in the european union. the need to increase the financial and human resources of the olaf and the european public prosecutor's office is made clear by recent figures. the number of irregularities and fraud cases remained roughly the same between 2020 and 2021, but the scale more than doubled to eur 3,2 billion. with a budget of €45 million alone, the european public prosecutor's office has authorised the seizure of more than €250 million in its first year of operation. all the efforts to increase transparency and control against fraud and corruption are strengthening the credibility of the european union and the trust of citizens in the european institutions, especially now when it is so necessary.
i have to say, madam president, the europol terrorism report documents 52 left-wing terrorist attacks, 43 islamist attacks, 15 separatist attacks and nine attacks by right-wing extremists in the last three years. i cannot recall when we ever had a debate in this house on far-left terrorism. no, you're all blind in your left eye. and how is your political compass so distorted that you don't see a threat in the violent left? but even then, there is a study prepared for the commission by the radicalisation awareness network, and it also speaks very clearly about the trivialization of left-wing extremism by the political establishment. so while right-wing terrorist networks are happily living in the shadows and left-wing extremism is being downplayed by the commission and parliament, a whole new, bigger threat is emerging in europe's big cities: i am talking about a generation of young, violent migrants who reject our state and our values. look at berlin, paris, vienna, and brussels. even in a small town like linz, where i come from, last week an iraqi asylum seeker caused a riot. but this debate, you don't want to have it. it would expose your completely flawed immigration policy, which you are trying to distract from by all means. it is pathetic that this parliament, for purely ideological reasons, focuses only on right-wing extremists and violence, while completely ignoring both violent left-wing extremism and jihadism and violent and anti-state youth migrants.
the commission has already done so. the last meeting of the joint parliamentary assembly of the african, caribbean and pacific states and the eu showed me that the european union must regain the trust of these countries, especially since the post-cotonou agreement has not yet been signed. and many of these countries are increasingly under the influence of china and russia. and african countries, above all, are also heavily dependent on imports of wheat, grain, fertilisers and cooking oil. the russian attack on ukraine has massively exacerbated the situation and demonstrated that direct european support is necessary for sustainable development. the question of food security goes hand in hand with security, stability and respect for human rights. many countries, particularly in the sub-saharan region, have been confronted for years with terrorism and displacement, and the interests of the african, caribbean and pacific countries are broadly in line with those of the european union. the democratic and economic development of these regions has direct implications for the countries of the european union. and global gateway can and must make eu development policy more sustainable. the european parliament in particular should play a leading role in this. unfortunately, a large majority of this house still does not know enough about this. and it was only through a press release that we learned that the commission had given the green light to 40 programmes under the global gateway. these programmes must at least ensure that people in their home countries have a sustainable perspective and future. infrastructure projects are of course of great importance. similarly, development cooperation programmes must also promote sustainable development goals, democracy, the rule of law and good governance, freedom of the press and media, and, above all, education. the fact that the european parliament has only been granted an observer role in the global gateway committee is a mistake that must be corrected as soon as possible.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. war, inflation and an extremely volatile energy market are forcing us to accelerate the expansion of renewable energy. it is now of the utmost importance to our citizens, our businesses and our businesses that the european union drastically reduces its dependence on energy suppliers from third countries and on fossil fuels. the repowereu programme is the right answer. with the current trilogue agreement, we want to ensure that all eu member states can adapt their national reconstruction plans to the current challenges. this is important because the dramatic increase in energy bills is not only damaging to our citizens and our businesses, but above all to our european competitiveness. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have to say, it's been easier to stand here and talk about this issue, because i think we're really facing a historic error of judgment. we're banning the internal combustion engine today. it was wrong, it's wrong, and it's wrong. we're just going to be moving into a new dependence on china for rare earths and metals for car batteries, for which we're not leaving any alternative. we are giving up green jobs in europe, we are giving up value creation, and we are weakening our position as an industrial continent. and all this without taking even a small step towards our global goal of climate action. please don't misunderstand me. the need for active climate action is not in any way called into question. but a good solution is rarely black or white. and technology neutrality is the only way to kill two birds with one stone: to protect the climate and to keep europe competitive. i really believe that a car with a steyr engine, powered by electric fuels from denmark or biofuels from austria, will help the climate more than an electric car from china or america, powered by coal. i shall therefore vote against this ban with all my heart.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu accounts for 8% of global co2 emissions, of which the transport sector within the eu accounts for 15%. that 15% of 8% is just 1.2% of global co2 emissions. the ban on the combustion engine from 2035 will therefore reduce global co2 emissions by just 1.2%. and that is why you are ruining european industry, destroying hundreds of thousands of jobs and destroying our prosperity in europe. china, india, russia, the united states are shaking their heads at this madness and rubbing their hands. with the more than 200 coal-fired power plants that china is building right now, this 1.2 percent co2 reduction is more than offset within a week. this is not how we're going to save the climate. they are destroying europe. this is crazy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in the midst of the energy crisis, the eu wants to ban the combustion engine to promote electric cars. but is it really climate-smart? no, not at all. the war in ukraine has led to a renaissance of coal power, producing electricity for europe's electric cars. or should we call them carbon cars because that's the right name? it can't get much dirtier than this. in addition, there is the expensive and carbon-intensive manufacture of batteries with many parts from china. so instead of needing oil from saudi arabia or gas from russia, we're going into a dependence on china instead. is that really the lesson we should learn from the war in ukraine? the climate alarmism that is going on is not helping the climate. we don't need any more regulation, and we don't need any more fear. what we need is more research, a market economy and faith in the future.
mr president, vice-president, colleagues, if we want to be climate neutral by 2050, we have to focus on transport. we know that the transport sector is the only sector in the eu where emissions they have increased. that trend cannot continue. maritime, aviation, road transport all have an important part to play in this regard. today we are debating and voting about new co2 standards for passenger vehicles and vans. and i have to say that i am not fully satisfied about the trilogue outcome. yes, indeed, we have to cut emissions from road transport, but we should do it in a technology neutral way. we, as politicians, shouldn’t be choosing winners and losers in the industry. this regulation entails that from 2035 onwards, all new vehicles should be electric or hydrogen vehicles. this regulation would phase out internal combustion engines, and i don’t think that this is the right approach. technology diversity is needed where all technologies, including electrification, hybridisation, hydrogen, but also sustainable and renewable fuels, can play a role. and we should also encourage those innovations. we should set the targets and industry should find out what is the most efficient and best technology to achieve this target. and we know also that for too long we have been focusing only on tailpipe emissions. so i think this is a positive step here that the new regulation will now introduce a common eu methodology by 2025 for assessing the full lifecycle of co2 emissions of cars and vans placed on the eu market.
mr president, speaking towards the end of such a debate can be a disadvantage but a good thing because you have heard all the thoughts of the house. let us not forget that we are talking about the health of all of us and the health of the environment that wears us down. we're not talking about cars that are already on our roads killing us those will continue to kill us but those that are accumulating new ones for another 12 years. i'm looking at a gallery full of young people, the ones who are fighting to fight climate change. and i thank them for being here because this is an important moment this moment marks the first official agreement on a law from a fundamental package for the future of our climate and our environment, of our health. i had hoped for a moment of unity, the three institutions agreed, but it seems that conservative forces are working to stop progress. here too, nationalists are against clean air for all of us in every european country and against our health. this is the first opportunity we have to give a signal to the world about the environment. we will not be discouraged, committed to reducing the environmental impact of new car emissions, while ensuring that no one is left behind because yes, we are socialists, and we do not want anyone to fall behind. we will not stop working for the environment and for our health.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if you think you can solve complex problems with simple answers, you're usually wrong. the de facto ban on the internal combustion engine and the unilateral political pressure to adopt battery electric propulsion are prime examples of this. the necessary transformation of the automotive sector towards climate neutrality threatens to become unnecessarily inefficient and expensive. the efficiency potential of alternative solutions is easily squandered. if we as politicians know better than the engineers, then we should at least be consistent. we are forcing manufacturers to invest in battery-electric drives, and at the same time we are discussing the euro 7 proposal, a measure which requires high investment in the old technology which we are now banning. the right hand doesn't know what the left hand is doing. the bill is even higher, and it is the eu consumers who ultimately have to pay.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the diversity of technology yes, the transformation of the sector yes. however, the prohibitions not. this is not the way we started. i come from croatia, where the rimac nevera is the world's fastest electric car. you've probably heard of it. but if we want to reduce carbon emissions for new cars and vans to ensure that the automotive sector contributes to the climate goals that we're all for, then we need to find a level playing field, and for me, this is not the moment. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the criteria for the selection of the beneficiaries of the financial assistance referred to in article 3 (2) of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013. this means that all cars and vans put on the market from 2035 onwards must be zero-emission vehicles. however, we must bear in mind that the automotive industry of the european union is responsible for more than 7% of gdp and provides almost 13 million jobs. we need to ensure that new regulation does not put jobs at risk and does not limit the potential that innovation can bring to our economy. ultimately, the focus must also be on our citizens. for some areas that are not well connected by transportation, the possession of a personal automobile is not a luxury, colleagues, but a minimum standard of living. that's why we should develop broad programs to support our citizens in buying environmentally friendly vehicles. but we must consider the financial possibilities. do we have the infrastructure? do we have the resources? despite the more optimistic macroeconomic indicators, we must not confront people with poverty.
mr president, mr timmermans, when the wise man points to the stars, the fool looks at the finger. the green deal, the farm-to-table strategy, the biodiversity strategy: these are all projects that are still hated by some ultraconservatives, neoliberals or climate sceptics in this century, and feared by others, but which are nonetheless priority and urgent european projects. these are tasks which, in the light of the degradation of our environment and biodiversity, are vital for the future of our european citizens. in this context, setting a target of 100% zero-emission vehicles by 2035 is a historic, ambitious and, in my view, a real decision, taken in the public interest. of course, we will have to go beyond electricity, but we are talking about 2035 and i would like to say here that i think we should indeed take this opportunity to rethink the place of the car and, more broadly, the question of mobility. but today is the first step towards 2035 and this vote is crucial for the future of our european citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. transport is one of the major emissions problems in the european union. we need a real transport revolution in the european union. of course, this also means that we have to get goods and people on the railway; but today we're talking about individual transport. people are, as they so often are, beyond politics. while new registrations for electric cars in germany have already grown by 32% in the last year, those for diesel and petrol cars have fallen sharply. and vice-president timmermans has actually said it right at the outset: the industrial revolution is happening whether we like it or not. the crucial question for europe is: do we want to be there? do we want to do that? do we want to create prosperity for our continent, or will we not be part of it again? we 're missing it . europe is becoming a great open-air museum for tourists from all over the world. this law is an essential step in the right direction, a clarification for our citizens and for our industry towards a sustainable transport transition.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is really sad that in the 21st century we still have to discuss the issue of violence against women. unfortunately, the figures show that there is still a need for action. violence against women is not a chivalrous crime; it is criminal and the perpetrators should be prosecuted. the istanbul convention is the first legally binding instrument to prevent and combat violence against women at international level. i am therefore pleased that my home country, austria, was one of the first countries to ratify the istanbul convention in 2013. in addition, grevio welcomes austria's leadership in the last decades in the introduction of a system of interim orders such as expulsions and protection orders for victims of domestic violence. as all member states have signed the istanbul convention, but some eu countries have still not ratified it, i see it as a strong signal from our commission president that we want to join as the european union. for only weak men strike women; strong men stand on equal footing with them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am pleased that innovation and digital education are also at the heart of our debate today. as an entrepreneur, it has long been my political concern to motivate women to take the step towards self-employment or to become more interested in stem jobs and digitalisation. to equip women for self-employment, of course, there is a need for easier access to start-up capital and easy participation in eu programmes. it is important to increase awareness of mathematical and technical subjects, especially for women workers. the fact that women often work in lower-paid sectors or in lower-paid departments within companies naturally has a negative impact on the gender pay gap. so we need to be able to employ significantly more women in stem and digital professions. this is not only beneficial for the economy, but also for the labour market.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i will now give the answers requested by my predecessor, namely: as early as september 2022 the pega committee of inquiry of this parliament dealt with the spying and eavesdropping cases in greece. i asked the greek journalists who had reported on the affair and who were giving information at this hearing: in view of these events, is greece on the road to autocracy? the answer is no. but that depends, above all, on how the greek government handles the investigation, how transparent the committee of inquiry in the greek parliament will be, which inspectors will be invited and what information will be given. in the debate in the house in september we heard that greece has nothing to hide. but developments in recent months are cause for concern. there are indications that the greek government under prime minister mitsotakis is deliberately flouting the rule of law. since 2019, when he took office, the national intelligence service has been under the direct control of the prime minister. a hearing with representatives of the greek government in the committee of inquiry of this parliament turned into a farce. the answers to the questions put by the members were simply inadequate. the questionnaire sent by the committee to the greek government on the use of spyware has not been answered to date. the greek authorities are not prepared to cooperate with the european institutions. the committee of inquiry into the illegal use of spyware in the greek parliament ended after only one month without any significant findings. it is also particularly alarming that greece is in free fall in the area of press and media freedom. according to the world press freedom index 2022, the country has slipped from 70th place in 2022 to 108th place, and thus the lowest in the european union. the murder of journalist giorgos karaivaz in 2021 is still unsolved. journalists are subject to intimidation and slapp lawsuits. and what justifies the illegal wiretapping of our colleague nikos androulakis over several months? what danger does a member who has worked here in the european parliament for eight years pose to national security? and why was an opposition politician targeted for surveillance just months before a national election? i expect the commission to take clear action to defend media freedom and the rule of law in greece. we are alarmed and must ensure that democracy and the rule of law are not undermined from within - not in greece, not in any country of the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. migration is a european challenge that needs a european solution. unfortunately, little progress has been made in the search for this answer in recent years. last year, more than 100 000 refugees arrived in austria, 75 000 of whom should have been registered in another eu country. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. many people rightly ask: what is the eu doing? i therefore expressly welcome the fact that, also at the urging of austria, the council in its conclusions sets out a clear roadmap for operational measures to strengthen the external borders and to cope with the flow of refugees, to fight smugglers, to prevent the loss of human life, to reduce the pressure on the eu's external borders by strengthening frontex, to encourage return by the possibility of visa-free travel and trade facilitation, and to establish pilot projects for effective border management. this could be the beginning of a real change in migration policy. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the treaty on european union and the treaty on european union. it is already five minutes to midnight and we all do not want these right-wing groups, which are empty again today, to get any stronger.
i have to say, madam president, from 2019 to 2022, the ecb increased its balance sheet total by eur 4,1 trillion. every single day the ecb has printed 4.5 billion new euros, and this is also the real cause of the high inflation in europe; there is no need to talk about the war in ukraine. and why did the ecb do that? it was nothing more than covert state funding. the ecb has been using its mandate of price stability to repair ailing public finances. and now you're getting all political about it. and then you're about to do the next big damage: first you drive inflation to enormous heights with a flood of money, and now you drive businesses to ruin with abrupt interest rate hikes. unfortunately, their policy is seamlessly integrated into that of the commission: ruinous, pointless, dangerous for citizens and the economy.
the commission has already done so. i admit the geopolitical situation is complex. so i thought we'd break it down to a simple example. we take a very ordinary company, and we call that company europa. this company makes great products, pays its employees well, throws away profits, and also takes care of the environment. the management of this company now intends to produce only products using raw materials controlled by the two competing firms. and we call the competitors the united states and china. if you ask the management, as a shareholder, what they think will happen, as i did in my question to the commission, you will hear that the dependencies will increase in the medium and long term, but you are already working on a strategy. we are at a point where europe's prosperity and europe's jobs are once again dependent on the goodwill of third parties. is this the strategic sovereignty we read about in every headline? is that what the 440 million shareholders want? i think we should be able to talk about this in a very critical way, given all the good things i've heard today. where are the plans to make energy in europe cheap enough to produce competitively? where are the initiatives that not only raise environmental standards but also ensure that there is genuine technology-neutral access? i would like to know that in the interests of the europe firm.
author. – madam president, commissioner, the two pro-democracy members of the eswatini parliament, mthandeni dube and bacede mabuza, have been in jail since july 2021. they were detained after the pro-democracy protests in eswatini in june and july, in which, according to different sources, between 46 and 79 people were killed. their immediate release must be the primary objective of our resolution. the cases of state violence against the people of eswatini continue to increase and have reached a sad peak with a murder of thulani maseko, witnessed by his family on 21 january this year. the country’s absolutist monarch is making clear threats and attacks by the security forces on political dissenters, human rights and democracy activists, trade unionists, students, and protesters are following. people are confronted with systematic intimidation, arbitrary arrests, kidnappings and alleged torture. the shutting down of the internet and a ban of protests, impunity for the security forces involved and the discrimination against women and minorities complete this catastrophic situation. it is the duty of the european union, as the largest donor to the country, to review the support programmes for eswatini and suspend them if the use of funds is not in line with human rights, just as long as fundamental and human rights are respected and promoted in the country.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to draw your attention to one point in accordance with rule 195 of our rules of procedure. sometimes a camera is really in the wrong place at the right time. in my speech on tuesday about the ban on internal combustion engines, i spoke about the importance of jobs and our competitiveness, and it was at that moment that the camera caught vice-president timmermans' disrespectful gesture towards me. we can have different opinions, and this plenary is the right place to discuss these differences. and a gesture like that doesn't mean the world's gonna end. but i think i am not the only one in the house this week who wishes for more respect for us members of parliament.
i have to say, madam president, i'd like to start with four very simple questions. should the building sector contribute to co2 reduction? i'm not sure. should the legislator develop rules for this? i'm not sure. are these rules of the game also intended to reduce dependence on fossil fuels? i'm not sure. are these measures intended to save energy and to make energy bills affordable? i'm not sure. all these questions, all these goals are good goals. no homeowner wants to add to their dependency or their energy bill. you want the opposite. all the important questions about investing in insulation of houses, in new windows, in different, better heating systems are right. but these questions do not just vary from country to country, from region to region, and from house to house. they are challenging us and i have to say, ladies and gentlemen, that i am very concerned that the directive we are voting on this week is going to be a total failure. the building sector is already covered by the new emissions trading system in terms of co2 price signals and co2 reductions, and also by the new energy efficiency directive. yes, it is our job to ensure co2 reductions, to ensure these rules of the game. but do we have to triple regulate everything and triple price? housing is expensive enough as it is.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, of course, i would like to congratulate the initiators of this great citizens' initiative. it's a remarkable achievement that they've done, especially against the backdrop of the covid-19 pandemic. but they succeeded and started this initiative. but i am very sorry that the very people who are responsible for this today cannot take part in this debate. because this european citizens' initiative comes at just the right time. it has already been mentioned: we have the current state of science that shows that climate change, biodiversity, environmental destruction is one of the biggest threats to our food system and therefore to agriculture, and that is to farmers. we need a sustainable food system, and so it's urgent that we talk about transforming how we do that. it is our task to encourage farmers, to tell them that there are solutions, that they are all on the table. agroecological measures end up bringing more money into the pockets of farmers. that's what we always say. so why not go, why not bring these methods, which work hand in hand with nature, to the people and empower them and educate them about it? because our women farmers need more independence from expensive equipment and more money in their pockets. this is also possible without agricultural poisons, as is shown by the ecological, organic farming, and this is also the one that has problems, very often in south tyrol, with drift. so one economic model is destroying the other economic model, and that's a big problem we need to find answers to, too. i'm not talking about health, which affects all of us. you know, in france and italy, parkinson's and certain cancers are occupational diseases of farmers. on the issue of the feasibility of pesticide reduction, the initiators have done a lot of additional work and have compiled a fact check. please check your mailboxes, it was sent to you yesterday by e-mail. i would appeal to everyone to read it carefully. and we should all heed the call to continue the work on sur constructively and without tactical delay. it's due now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. pesticides are partly responsible for the decline in biodiversity and thus also for the death of bees. that is more than scientifically proven. but when it comes to reducing conventional environmental toxins, many people are losing courage and are often left with a symbolic policy. but that is clearly not enough in view of the dramatic situation. the title of the most successful citizens' initiative is 'save bees and farmers'. and that's why we need real, effective and environmentally friendly alternatives to the pesticides that we use today. this requires a research strategy at all levels in the member states and in europe. agriculture depends on the best sustainable alternatives for food security and biodiversity across europe. this requires bold policy and a massive acceleration of research into truly ecological alternatives to pesticides.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the protection of our family farms is simply a matter of concern to me. i am here in the european parliament for them and i want to do my utmost to help them. so i was really very pleased when i first heard about this citizens' initiative. both topics - supporting farmers and protecting bees and other pollinators - are, in my view, essential to the success of the european green deal and to a more successful and sustainable future for europe. unfortunately, it is easy to see at a glance that this citizens' initiative is not about one thing or the other. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. farmers do not use pesticides because of juicing or pollination or because they want to harm biodiversity. they use them only in the event of an emergency, and not more and not less, and therefore only to ensure that the population of europe is supplied with high-quality food. the consequences of a drastic and rapid reduction in pesticides, as called for, would be fatal, because there are currently no viable alternatives. we would be caught in an import trap and would have to buy products from third countries which use pesticides which have long been banned in our country. the fact that the mercosur trade pact is being pushed forward by the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, is a source of embarrassment for our farmers. i would therefore like to make a plea to the house: we have basically the same objectives, perhaps a different approach, but let us not be driven by ideology, but let us work with common sense and love for the best interests of the farmers and also for the bees.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has been working for a year in this house, in the european parliament, to investigate the use of pegasus and similar surveillance and spying software. our task was and is clearly defined, namely to determine the extent to which member states and third countries use surveillance measures against citizens, thus violating the fundamental rights and freedoms enshrined in the charter and in legal norms. the more we delve into the matter, the more shocking the dimension becomes of the threat to the rule of law and democratic principles in europe. our colleague nikos androulakis was wiretapped for months with predator on the pretext that he was a threat to the national security of greece. to this day, he is denied any information about the reasons for his wiretap. only seven member states have also responded directly to a catalogue of questions from our committee. i'm not judging the quality of this information. the czech republic will be the first country to implement the eu-wide 'climate action' strategy, which aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% by 2020. the summit is, of course, the rationale for the refusal of the hungarian minister of justice, varga, to speak and communicate with the committee: we don't want to help the performance of the hungarian and european left, which are financed by soros dollars. as long as there are such accesses to how a parliamentary committee of inquiry is supposed to work, this is not acceptable. the commission is the guardian of the treaties. there must be a procedure. i would like to ask the commissioner's statement to be taken into account, because the confidence of european citizens in the rule of law and in the institutions is at stake.
madam president, when we say that the european union is a club of states instead of a true union and that it has democratic deficiencies because of that, we refer to the use of the european council – that is absent right now – as the shield to protect member states’ shameful actions from the scrutiny that they merit. despite the eu institutions’ grandstanding on fundamental rights and democratic values, only yesterday i was arrested in barcelona in apparent breach of my immunity as a member of this chamber and of european law. neither the council nor the commission nor the presidency of this parliament has so much commented on it, let alone called for my release, as the occasion required. the interests of member states that infringe the fundamental rights of their citizens, such as spain, always come before the rights of the citizens of this union. we will not stop our fight until our right to self-determination, and through that our political rights, are respected and the union lives up to its promise of democracy.
i thank you, mr ponsati. you know you have to stick to the subject. he had already had the opportunity to intervene at the beginning. i also let you speak because you said so at the beginning of this sitting. let's get on with our discussion.
madam president, commission, council, colleagues, we have a war criminal to defeat and, following the leadership of the commission and the high representative / vice president in particular, the council is also increasingly getting the message. it seems that the historic artillery deal gives the brave defenders of europe’s democracy something to actually defend themselves with. but the truth is, we all know ukraine needs much more shells, more long range missiles, more modern jets, and it needs our tanks faster. that’s what the council must get to work on yesterday, and it’s a pity that mr michel had to leave. stop the incrementalism. it must also get serious about candidate states. while the council naively welcomed this sort—of deal between kosovo and serbia, vučić is actively bragging about his unwillingness to sign it. this agreement is binding. serbia will also have to implement, and the eu must take charge. don’t let vučić play you again. as for putin, there’s just one deal on the table – for russia to get out of ukraine. all of it. i will join colleague osmani in the hague to welcome him there. slava ukraini!
i have to say, madam president, the car is a subject that moves many young people, especially those who are climate conscious. a well-informed student asked me yesterday in this house: is the whole thing about e-fuels coming from the lobbying of the car industry? many are surprised to hear that industry is actually much more advanced than many in politics. the european car industry wanted clarity. they actually have end dates for their latest combustion engine models now, which are way before 2035. what we have now instead - thanks also to the council - is uncertainty, uncertainty for the european car industry. and it's in a fierce global competition for electric mobility that we're now in danger of losing because of perceived truths, anecdotal knowledge, misinformation and a completely misguided nostalgia for life as it was. the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in this. we can only thank the german government and the austrian government for absolutely nothing.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the now banned cfcs are still a familiar concept to many. it has been banned in the eu since 1995. here, the ban has shown very impressively that this is the most effective way to drive research and innovation for real alternatives. f-gases are found in air conditioners, heat pumps, control systems, or as a propellant in asthma sprays. but they have a particularly high greenhouse potential. at the same time, they can be avoided relatively well in almost all fields of application. the eu has therefore already taken an important step in 2014 with the f-gas regulation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i understand that any change will initially cause uncertainty. but we are relying on european know-how and we want to strengthen research and innovation here. we are particularly concerned with promoting and supporting european enterprises, so we need to be cautious and to plan with certainty. this is certainly guaranteed by this report. as a result, we have also introduced some safety nets. but what we certainly do not want are expensive and, above all, short-term interim solutions and the increased use of other chemically toxic substances.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, a big thank you to our rapporteur, mr christophe hansen, who has presented a really great bill here on how we can ensure that in future products such as beef and cocoa will no longer come from areas where deforestation is threatened. and that is really an important and correct approach which is here, but which must also be implemented now, as i said, when it comes to how the member states will implement it, how the commission will roll it out. and what is very important is that this is not just about lip service, but it is also about the fact that there are strict controls, that there must also be strict sanctions if countries or regions or individual companies do not comply with these guidelines. but this law must also serve to ensure that trade remains sustainable. but it must not be used to create a kind of free-trade agreement with this bill, as with mercosur. i think it is important to say that this is an important first step. how can we produce sustainably? but when we talk about trade agreements, we are talking about lowering tariffs on sensitive products such as beef, and that cannot be fixed by such a law alone.
mr president, i think we are doing now what the decision makers of today have to do. we are doing legislation to save the climate. climate heating needs actions from decision makers of today. maybe it is hard to love every detail of the big package, but we have to love our planet and try to give it to our children in the shape that we inherited it. it’s hard and we need all these actions. there is not good or bad emissions; all the sectors have to look at how they can get rid of the emissions. did we do any mistakes in the past in the climate policies? i think we did. we didn’t take care of the consumption emissions we caused in europe. now, the cbam together with the ets is tackling that challenge. together with the ets, we will see that there will be a price on carbon. also the investors have learned to love this security for their investments. we see that is happening. a lot of new work, a lot of new well-being for europeans is promised when they can trust that there is a price on carbon.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. with this vote, we are now laying the foundations for making flying in europe more climate-friendly - or, let us say, more climate-friendly. finally, a really effective trading system for allowances is being introduced in air transport, a de facto co2 pricing system. but clearly, it can only be a beginning. we could have been bolder in the details, but above all in the application. because we're all constantly being asked here, what's the point of all this if the rest of the world is doing much less and they're not getting involved? well, this law also only applies to flights within europe, with the hope that the world would eventually follow suit with long-haul. but if we want the change we are starting here to extend beyond the borders of the european union, then we must finally stop hoping and actually create facts so that we can create climate neutrality for the whole world.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission clearly wants to ruin europe as quickly as possible. this planned expansion of emissions trading and carbon pricing to the construction and transport sectors will bring the next big wave of price increases for citizens and businesses. and, combined with the fuel-burning ban, mobility is becoming a luxury for the wealthy few and the eu's elite. and housing - an indispensable basic need - is becoming increasingly unaffordable. the next big move from brussels is the co2 compensation mechanism. the eu itself is driving up energy prices and our european companies are losing their competitiveness on the world market. the co2 tax will not change that, and it will not help the climate. the result is business emigration and deindustrialisation. with this fit for 55 programme, the eu is destroying the very economic foundations of europeans' lives.
the commission has already done so. the outcome of the negotiations on the fit for 55 files, which are to be voted on this week, will bring us one step closer to a climate-neutral europe by 2050. we can be satisfied with the outcome of the negotiations, even though i personally would have liked a more progressive outcome on one or other point. in the reform of the emissions trading system, we have succeeded in involving more sectors and in gradually reducing the supply of free allowances. we are creating the necessary incentives for companies to invest in climate-friendly technologies. because experience has shown us that the abolition of such exemptions leads to more investment in innovation and research, and that the idea of saving and sustainability also leads to better and faster implementation in industry. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take action in this area.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank my colleague for presenting the report. relations between the eu and the council of europe are very important, and we have heard it now and i have experienced it myself : the council of europe is not at first entirely clear. it is not just me who felt this way at the beginning of my term, but i think many in the population are not aware of the central role played by the council of europe. the council of europe plays a major role in matters such as human rights, because it involves more member states. i can therefore only fully support my colleague's approach that we should build relations here, that we should continue to expand them, that we should have a good dialogue here in the future.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. first of all, i would like to thank my colleagues with whom we have been able to work together over the last few months to draft and negotiate this very important report. we have really succeeded in making a significant statement with our report on how we want to and can store co2 in the future. there are two fundamentally different approaches that we've been discussing. the first approach is to store co2 naturally in the soil as humus, in wood as biomass, or in the ocean as biomass. here, carbon farming offers an opportunity to make agriculture even more sustainable, while also opening up new income opportunities for farming and forestry. the aim is to create a uniform framework for carbon farming in the eu so that the actual storage of co2 is rewarded and there is no greenwashing of co2 allowances in agriculture and forestry. these certificates are intended to be a new alternative to those often financed in third countries under dubious and difficult to understand criteria. of course, such an instrument also needs the necessary financial support to be rolled out across the eu. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the second essential point that we have examined in the report is the future storage of co2 with the new technologies ccs and ccu, i.e. carbon capture and storage and carbon capture and utilisation - two industrial possibilities to filter co2 out of the air or from processing processes, to store it and either store it underground or recycle it, for example in the field of synthetic fuels, or to capture it in the form of building materials. it is precisely this possibility that allows us to reduce manufacturing processes that were previously very carbon intensive to almost zero emissions and really make a direct profit. the report we are adopting is an important cornerstone. but it is equally important that we continue to use and support established projects which already exist in many member states - private initiatives, projects of member states - and that we really integrate them in a sensible way into the new framework which we as the european parliament will be defining in the future. in conclusion, i would like to emphasize that we are talking a lot about how we can store co2 sustainably in the future. but i think it's really important to emphasize that we should not just talk about storage, but we should also talk about this: every ton of co2 that we don't emit, don't emit, is the best ton. we don't need to store them with the options we have.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. mr president, thank you very much for your report. e-government is really a future topic because it really opens up a wide range of topics and opportunities for companies that can contribute or can take simple government routes, and on the other hand, of course, for private individuals. i'm from austria, and e-government is really a topic for the next few years. for example, we have implemented the idea that you can take your driving licence with you on your mobile phone and you don't have to take it with you anymore. and this is just a small example of what is possible here and what can be possible when it comes to really simplifying the administration, no longer sending documents by post, but simply uploading them to your computer and you get an immediate answer whether the document is in order, whether it is stored in databases. but nevertheless, and you have mentioned it, there is also a need to take care of data security, to take care of how documents are handled, how they are stored and who has access to them. that counts here just as much.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, you are very much appreciated. i would like to thank you for the points you have made on the common security policy. the points you have raised show how important it is that we discuss this subject and that we really have a serious debate, in the light of the news we hear every day. the environmental conditions have changed. we see it with the war in ukraine, how important it is that we really expand these steps of data exchange, etc., that we really work together on this in a sustainable way. there are a lot of resources already available here, and i think it is very important that we really work together here, the institutions, the member states and of course also the aid to third countries, that we work better together so that we can discuss these important issues together.
in writing. chinese military exercises to rehearse the invasion of taiwan are a very worrying development and should make the eu more alert. despite the fact that taiwan is far away from us, a chinese military attack on taiwan would affect the whole world, including us in the eu. taiwan is very important to the united states. if american attention is increasingly shifted to the pacific region, european security and us support for ukraine in the face of the current russian aggression will suffer. in this context, it is important that the western world maintain a common line with china and that the eu and the us cooperate closely. against this background, there is also a clear need for a coherent and coherent eu strategy towards china.
in writing. – the eu should face up to the strategic challenge of developing europe-china relations in significant and non-threatening ways for both sides. they have their geo-political and geo-strategic interests and must mutually accommodate themselves to the constraints these pose. china is becoming, has already become a superpower. its actions and positions will necessarily reflect this stance. as the largest world market, the eu has long held ties of alliance with the us, the other superpower which considers china as a rival. this it factors into its policy positions. the eu also affirms the doctrine of multi-party representative democracy and human rights which lead it to contest china’s policies vis a vis the uighurs, hong kong and taiwan. still, china and the eu are outstanding commercial partners. based on continuous dialogue, that relationship needs to be developed further and adjusted to take into account balance, fairness, and transparency in the exchange of trade and investment flows covering goods, services and knowledge transfers. meanwhile, the eu must assert its strategic autonomy while restating its commitment to a one-china policy. the eu is doing well when urging china to deploy its influence with russia to bring about a close to the war in the ukraine.
in writing. in recent weeks, eu leaders have visited china on their own national interests, with varying degrees of success. we can't afford this kind of disunity. china's importance as a political and economic superpower is growing. president xi jinping has tightened his grip and is now testing europe. as one indication of this, china began massive military exercises in the vicinity of taiwan immediately after the french president's visit to china. china is behaving more assertively in its foreign policy and is massively arming itself. china has also grown its web of economic power woven around critical raw materials, food and energy. yet, european leaders have ignored the warnings. the eu must now update its china strategy and decisively reduce its dependence on china. the european line must be clear. we need a strong and self-confident europe to defend freedom, democracy, the rule of law and justice. cooperate where possible, compete where necessary, and challenge and defend where necessary. europe does not need more speeches or numerous bilateral economic delegations, but a common and coherent european approach.
in writing. – it is clear: as long as member states pursue sectorial priorities in their engagement with china, we will continue having fragmentation and disunity in eu-china affairs. the underlying problem remains a different one: it is time for a new approach. as the geopolitical situation has shifted, so should our strategy. we thus need a new approach built on the 2019 parameters of cooperation, competition and confrontation, yet reinterpreted to the new realities of 2023. given that de-coupling is not an option, i see here many merits to a strategy seeking de-risking. as such, open strategic autonomy must be realised through diversified and resilient supply chains abroad and boosted industrial competitiveness at home. we must rebalance our economic relations with china, including through strong and enforceable autonomous trade instruments. engagement with international partners must remain a key priority and rules-based interactions a cornerstone of european external action. it must also be stressed that maintaining a status quo and geo-economic stability in the taiwan strait is a key strategic interest of the eu. lastly, yet importantly, i urge all eu institutions to work in solidarity for the lifting of chinese sanctions on members of the european parliament and eu decision—making bodies.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
madam president, this regulation is very important because it simplifies the current situation also. first of all, it reflects the situation on the market, it reflects the consumer needs, but also the potential needs from small and medium entrepreneurs, which is very, very critical. so i am very happy that after a long, long trilogue we came to the conclusion, because there were many, many technical trilogues, altogether 19 trilogues. i am very thankful to all the colleagues and all the shadow rapporteurs for support, and i would like to ask you, dear colleagues, for supporting this file, which is very important for our consumers and also entrepreneurs.
commission. – madam president, honourable members of parliament, the commission recalls that the final agreement reached by the co-legislators on the establishment of the carbon border adjustment mechanism has evolved significantly in terms of the human resources required for its implementation within the commission, compared to the legislative and financial statement which accompanied the original proposal, which was based on a decentralised model of implementation. the additional commission human resources required by the final agreement endorsed by the co-legislators will not allow the commission to respect the principle of stable staffing and will require additional resources, to be authorised by the european parliament and the council during the annual budget procedure, along with related budgetary appropriations. without any additional means to commit, the options to finance the necessary administrative costs of cbam cannot be easily found. heading 7, european public administration, of the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 was built on the principle of stable staffing, and there is no margin to finance additional officials. the margin in heading 3, natural resources and environment, may in principle accommodate it-related expenditure, subject to its limits. the reduced availabilities under the heading will limit the capacity of the eu budget to finance new political priorities.
madam president, dear colleagues, we have now agreed on the cornerstone of fit for 55 – like esther de lange said, the holy trinity of the ets, cbam and the social climate fund. this is good for the climate, it’s good for people and it’s good for our jobs in industry. one point only i wanted to make: many people say the social climate fund is so small, but it is big; it is more than eur 80 billion. but what we achieved – and this was something for which parliament fought for many, many years – is that also member states’ money, the national revenues, which all in all may be about eur 700 billion, should be spent on a purpose. they should not disappear somewhere. they should be spent for innovation. for the ets too we have made clear that funding should be spent taking social aspects into account. this is important. it’s not only the social climate fund, it’s an overall package. thank you to everybody who helped. to ester, david casa, sunčana glavak, and a special greeting to mohammed chahim as it’s his birthday today. and thank you to our staff.
happy birthday, mr chahim.
that concludes the vote. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
the next item is the commission statement on energy storage (2023/2638(rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, i thank the honourable members for organising this timely and necessary debate on the role of energy storage in the electricity system. we have a lot of topics on our agenda, but storage is the centrepiece for building a decarbonised, flexible and cost—effective energy system through electrification and energy system integration and is key for achieving our eu targets with regard to renewables and hydrogen production but the fact is that the role of storage is often overlooked. i want to give credit to this parliament for adopting, back in july 2020, an own initiative report calling for a comprehensive european approach to storage. the gamon report brought the storage issue into focus and set in motion a systematic work by the commission. we examined the relevant technologies, the barriers to their deployment to market, the gaps in the regulatory framework. we looked into the best ways in which we could build on the work started in 2016 with our guiding documents and provisions in the clean energy package. today, i am delighted to present to you the results of this work and the latest set of commission proposals on energy storage. just one month ago, the commission adopted a targeted proposal for the reform of electricity market design, which has, at its core, key provisions to boost advanced storage and flexibility technologies. the reform of the electricity market design strengthens flexibility services, demand response and energy storage in the electricity system with measures for member states and system operators. for member states, they would be required to assess the flexibility needs in the national energy systems for a period of at least five years, to move away from system flexibilities gained from fossil fuels. they would have to establish indicative national objectives, focusing especially on non—fossil flexibility technologies, such as storage and demand response. they would also have the option of introducing new support schemes, especially for non—fossil flexibility, such as demand response and storage or, when these exist, to integrate them into capacity mechanisms. for system operators, they would be able to procure flexibility services at peak hours. they could also use the data from dedicated metering devices to facilitate the active participation of demand response and storage in electricity markets. flexibility service providers would see an evolution in the remuneration of their services through network tariffs. this would incentivise system operators to further develop innovative solutions, to optimise the existing grid and to procure flexibility services, in particular demand response. these regulatory provisions will go a long way to boosting incentives for storage, but we did not stop there. in parallel to the revision of the electricity market design, we addressed a commission recommendation on energy storage to the member states, because we know that a great part of the work also falls to the national level. to support this, we published a staff working document with a solid and comprehensive strategic study of the options for electricity storage and the ways to promote them, taking a technology—neutral approach. the recommendations offer proposals for member state actions towards a greater deployment of energy storage, to provide benefits to consumers and accelerate the market for flexibility solutions. finally, let me come to the last piece of the puzzle. on 9 march 2023, the commission officially requested that the dso entity, in cooperation with entso-e, start work on a new network code. this will further support the development of demand response, including rules on aggregation, energy storage and demand containment, and address remaining regulatory barriers. and it will be an important step towards the use of flexibility services, in particular by system operators. we know that storage is central to the success of our clean energy transition. we know that the time to act is now. with our latest initiatives, we set the ball rolling. we aim to shape a conducive environment for storage and flexibility solutions to develop at the pace and scale we need, but need your support to get there. i look forward to hearing your views and to having a fruitful exchange on how to do that.
on behalf of the ppe group. thank you very much, mr president! and first of all, i want to thank the commissioner for presenting the plans for energy storage. this is absolutely critical to our entire energy and industrial transformation. energy security, security and storage are always linked. last year we did a great thing: we passed the natural gas storage regulation under the emergency procedure. we saved ourselves from winter. as head of the negotiating team, i would like to thank my colleagues for their efforts in this area. the council has also prepared a model for action. let's remember to do it again this year. we need to fill the stores. it's short-term energy storage. that's what we remember. safety first. we have a package of ready-made for 55 on the table today. this means that renewable energy is the most important, and it's unstable. so renewable energy and energy storage are absolutely linked. we are building a europe where we will have only electricity and hydrogen in the future, because we can store hydrogen, and also directly electricity. the european battery alliance, which is led by vice-president maroš šefčovič, must be continued. but not everything can be done with electricity. hydrogen is also needed for certain industries, for heavy transportation, and above all for storage. what bothers us most about storing energy in the form of hydrogen, electricity, renewable electricity? what's holding us back is the low efficiency of the hydrogen-powered process, the hydrogen-powered process: that's 30 to 40 percent today, but there are solutions that give you a 60 to 70 percent chance. and this is our future in the most general terms. so let's remember: hydrogen, electricity first and hydrogen is our future.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission is not i am very grateful to the commissioner for his reply and for the fact that he has been able to give us a very clear answer to the question of the future of the european union. the european parliament already pointed out in its 2020 report that we urgently need a strategy for energy storage. without sufficient storage, there will be no energy revolution. it is essential to stress this point again and again. i am all the more pleased that the commission has now made some concrete proposals with a working document and recommendations on energy storage. this is a clear political signal to the energy industry, to the member states. but this can and must be only the beginning. we alpine people are of course also keenly aware of the potential that still lies in hydropower. and i very much welcome the fact that the commission is also highlighting the potential of pumped storage. i think we all need to work to ensure that this appreciation is reflected in other laws that affect this. and we also need to talk about what is preventing us from using the capacity that we have at the moment. in vorarlberg there is a great innovative project which can become one of the largest reservoirs in central europe almost entirely without additional environmental intervention: the lünerseewerk ii. and yet, there is an almost endless stream of approval procedures. that has to change if we're going to make a real difference. the national governments of the member states are particularly needed here. the expansion of storage must finally be as urgent as the expansion of renewable energy. otherwise we will not make the energy revolution as a whole. and we also want europe to be the place where the storage technologies of the future are developed. let's go together. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to asbestos.
mr president, madam minister for europe, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the current migration pattern is dramatic. there are an incredible number of refugees on the land and sea routes, and in iran, three million afghan refugees are waiting to leave for europe. italy has now shown that it needs help, and the european union should take this seriously, because last year austria, as an inland country, was not heard when 112,000 asylum applications were made both at the borders and in the country, even though we were already among the leaders in terms of taking in refugees in 2015. nobody listened to our calls for help, and therefore the only option for austria was to veto schengen, because schengen obviously does not work and because a division in our society was already under way. we need the infrastructure at our external borders and we need to take even stronger action against smugglers. this multi-billion dollar business, at the expense and on the backs of refugees, must be stopped. last year, 700 traffickers were arrested in austria, and that is certainly just the tip of the iceberg. but we also need solidarity with those who are overwhelmed by the refugee situation. i therefore welcome the asylum and migration package voted on by the committee on the interior two weeks ago. this is an important step, but there are still more to come.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. you've heard all about it today. i want to blow that same horn. pfas are everywhere, they're forever chemicals, we're never going to get rid of them. but they are also a man-made product, and they are found, for example, in frying pans, as mentioned, in food packaging materials, but also on pizza boxes to keep the pizza from leaking. so with many meals, we eat a bit, a bit, a my poison, which is deposited in our blood, in our blood plasma, as the german environment agency has now found in 2020 in blood plasma samples from 3 to 17 year olds, namely that in the 3 to 17 year olds, 100% of the blood plasma samples were found to be pfos and 86% of the samples were found to be pfoa, and this despite the fact that these substances were already banned in 2009 and 2019 respectively. now is the time. we hear there are increasing amounts of environmental toxins. and the time has come to act decisively. i would like to support the commission in not allowing itself to be taken in by an industry which has no regard for our health and cannot foresee this environmental damage in the long term. so please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. it's like we've heard it a lot here. we are facing a particular challenge, precisely because it is digital services. there's a little niche out there that's going to take over the world. and no one thought to contact the legal world during this exciting journey, which, after these first successful adventures, quietly begins to ask: yes, can they do that? and this sounds a bit like an exciting story by thomas brezina, but it's quite a reality when we look back over the last few years. crypto assets are now well-established pieces of many investor profiles and are no longer just something for professionals in the fintech world. and because this little niche is just growing up, the call for regulation is getting louder. and that doesn't have to be a negative thing, because regulation also means planning certainty. and that is why it is up to us to build a legal framework here that not only allows and encourages such developments but also protects consumers and, of course, prevents fraud. and i'm really excited to see what this future journey of the crypto world is going to be. today's decision really adds a legal framework to the eu that supports innovation and protects people. i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr stefan berger, on his work. he has been working hard on this issue from the beginning. congratulations to all those who negotiated. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question under the 'blue card' procedure.)
reply to a verbal message under the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much, mr president. i have not spoken about the risks because some of my colleagues have already done so today. this is precisely why the call for regulation has become stronger. because a new development, a niche that is on its way to becoming a major development, of course, always comes with opportunities, but also risks. i think - and i have followed the negotiations and have also been in contact with stefan berger - that there is obviously a lot of transparency and accountability involved and i think that a balanced and balanced outcome has been found, that it is also informed accordingly, as you have asked.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the stability and growth pact is not intended to give member states more scope to build up debt, but to support them in reducing it through targeted programmes. we know from the past how it was when some member states had accumulated debts in the shadow of the euro without carrying out structural reforms and the other member states had to come to the rescue. the european union is a political union, a political union of the people. so our aim must be to give the next generation a chance to shape the future and not to slide into a debt union. and investments in the green deal must not be used by member states as an excuse for new debt, because we have already provided funds for this in many areas. we need a reliable system to reduce the deficit and the debt ratio.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. at the end of the 2021 discharge cycle, it is important that we highlight the importance of parliamentary budgetary control. as a member of the committee on budgetary control, we have the highest priority in protecting the budget. and i am confident that by effectively using the rule of law conditionality, we have another tool to stop the misuse of tax money. i would also like to thank commissioner hahn for his help. as the shadow rapporteur for the joint undertakings, i can report that the budgetary resources were spent in accordance with the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness. i would also like to highlight the good work done by frontex. the new management is doing an excellent job and it must be clear to all of us in this house that only by protecting our external borders effectively can we preserve our freedom within europe. it is important for our future to ensure effective control of the building and resilience facility under nextgenerationeu. in this respect, our partnership with the european commission, the european court of auditors, olaf and the ejn is crucial, and we thank them for their good cooperation.
the commission has already done so. sudan is another country in a chain reaction in the region and it is quite obvious that it has the potential to develop into a huge catastrophe if we do not act. the influence of other states and groups already present in africa, such as wagner, would also spread to sudan. the lack of drinking water, food and medicine is triggering a huge refugee movement. the unhcr says that there are up to 800 000 people, and from 334 000 internally displaced persons last week, there are now 700 000 people, which shows how dramatically the situation is changing. the eu must immediately impose targeted sanctions on the warring parties, with a halt to further arms deliveries and restricted access to their assets by the warring parties. negotiations and a ceasefire are urgently and urgently needed. what is happening in sudan will have an impact on neighbours such as egypt, ethiopia, chad and eventually on us in europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. finally, there is a further step forward in the integration and accession of kosovo to the european union. for too long, nothing has happened. now, at last, visa liberalization is a great success. the first steps towards membership of the council of europe have finally been taken, which is also very, very urgently needed. the kurti government, which represents the longest period of political stability in kosovo, has initiated and implemented many reforms. what is still missing is that more progress is made in the dialogue between belgrade and pristina and that what is going on is finally signed and represented by both sides. it is still the case that sand is thrown into the gearbox again and again. just think of the call for a boycott of vučić in the local elections in northern kosovo. but nevertheless, we must continue to work on it. the european union must also do more in this respect and bring more people together. we need a stable balkans, and kosovo is part of that in europe.
i have to say, madam president, let's get this straight. what is this joint procurement of defence equipment? commissioner vestager has made it very clear: it is another step towards transferring defence equipment to ukraine. that is the main point: hundreds of millions more for the war. and what the second line is about, the commission representative in austria, martin selmayr, has revealed. 'the european army is nato', he said. i tell him nato is an alliance led by the united states. it is unacceptable for austria, as a neutral country, to use austrian taxpayers' money to support a military alliance which, moreover, serves the interests of a non-european power. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this package is not only incompatible with austrian neutrality. this package is a complete fraud. it's just more money for ukraine, more money for nato and new eu taxes.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the growing challenges of climate change and pollution from industrial, chemical, pharmaceutical and agricultural activities are truly worrying. i think you will agree that both our groundwater and our surface water need to be better protected, and this report addresses that. the report before us supports these challenges and also supports the objective of the zero-emission action plan set by the commission. i very much welcome the fact that we are also addressing the large group of so-called perennial chemicals, the pfas. we are also sending an important signal with regard to the forthcoming revision of the reach regulation. i am also very pleased that we are tightening up the limits for certain pollutants such as glyphosate in view of the forthcoming debate on the renewal of glyphosate in this house. in the coming months, it is also an important sign that we are setting clear and strict standards. we need a european research strategy for real, effective, ecological and sustainable alternatives to the environmental toxins currently in use.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. the decisions taken today are indeed far-reaching and very good. in the western balkans, in particular, it is high time that albania and north macedonia are now able to negotiate their accession more seriously. i am also pleased with the progress made in bosnia. and as far as ukraine, georgia, moldova are concerned, it is a very, very important sign of global politics. but we must also say that there is no shortcut on the way to the european union. there are criteria to be met and there are hard reforms to be made against corruption, oligarchy and, and, and. it's usually a long, hard road. and i think you have to address the difficulties at the beginning, so that the euphoria doesn't end in a big disappointment, but at the beginning you have to address the problems to solve them. that is the key to the enlargement process.
in the name of the s&d faction. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. i think it is a very, very important report and i would like to thank the rapporteur for this very work. because we are seeing more and more foreign influence on elections, but also unfortunately, as in authoritarian governed countries, more and more electoral fraud, negative influence takes place. disinformation, fake news, intimidation and discrimination are making what we mean by fair, free and secret elections increasingly impossible. we often see geopolitical interference from some powers, whether russia or turkey, or others, who are trying to influence the dynamics of social media. and so not only media freedom, transparent information, education, but election observation missions and global cooperation are essential to bring about positive change. the inclusion of free elections in our relations and development aid relations with individual countries is particularly important here. but the election observation missions carried out by the european union and the european parliament are crucial here. because these are not easy tasks, they are very detailed tasks. and they're not only important for the quality of elections and democracy, they're very often also an important signal to the people on the ground when they stand at the polling stations that they see international european election observers too.
the rapporteur. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. we're finally here. and i would like to thank first of all all those who made this debate possible today. because you know, even the fact that we're voting for a sur tomorrow is not self-evident. there has been a very strong desire from the beginning not to negotiate this sur at all, very unilateral information to say it kindly and no political will to do anything for europeans, for europeans, for our environment, for our health. and that is why i am happy to be here today, and look forward to the vote tomorrow. yeah, it's been a long road. and all this, despite the fact that there is a clear consensus among the population that says, we want a reduction in pesticides. the risks to the environment and to health, but also to the soil, to our drinking water, have become intolerable. almost 82 percent of respondents from denmark, germany, poland, spain, romania and france ask for it and are concerned about the environmental impact of pesticides, and 76 percent are concerned about their own health, the health of their grandchildren and their daughters, sons, friends, partners. and science also supports this. you know, there's a letter that has been signed by 6,000 scientists to the sur and the nrl, and it's a disciplinary one, saying we need pesticide reduction. the pollution of surface waters, declining insect populations, increasing pesticide residues and, of course, the waste products that are not even being studied have become a major problem for humans, animals and our entire environment. you can find pesticides in every house dust. if you go into your bedroom today and take a reverse screw and have this dust examined, i guarantee you you'll find pesticides in it. but not only are pesticides in the house dust, but they're also in our breast milk, in our uterus, in our blood. there are about 100,000 different environmental toxins, and now is the time to start with a really serious reduction. we must finally protect the long-term consequences for health, for biodiversity and for our ecosystems and our natural resources. because we also have a responsibility not only to our neighbors, but to our children, to future generations and to our grandchildren. but we also have a problem of protecting our food security, which is being threatened by restricting biodiversity. today again, everything and tomorrow nothing is a solution. this is not the way we want to go. i would therefore like to say quite clearly that the progress we have made so far is threatening our existence, our food security, our livelihood, and not the sur or the nrl, as has been so often collaborated. studies also show that pesticides are also economic nonsense. this is bullshit. because they cost more than you spend on what they make as a profit. the toolkit proposed by the european commission, the ipm toolkit, which can reduce pesticide use in an agro-ecological way, not only saves environmental toxins but also ultimately brings more money into the market. this is something that farmers have to clap their hands and say, "wonderful, we want to get rid of it". we're doing something about health, about the society that wants it, and about our own financial situation. oh, i'm overdressed now. i would therefore ask you to vote tomorrow in a strong vote so that we can take the wishes of europeans into account.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. we're teaching our kids in kindergarten not to play with food. but what we're discussing here is putting our food security at risk more than we can imagine. plant protection products are the basis for a stable yield, and we need to be aware that our farmers need a full toolkit to truly guarantee security of supply and to provide us with food every day. i find it very sad that we are discussing calculation factors, reference years and reduction targets without really looking at the whole thing. what our agriculture needs is faster, faster access to alternative plant protection products when it comes to proposing alternatives. and one point is more than unacceptable in your proposal, mrs wiener: that you want to ban almost all plant protection products in agricultural sensitive areas. this would be the outcome in austria for our wine growing around the new settlers' lake or the wachauer marille, which we so appreciate. because with the very design you've proposed, it would be really impossible and very far from practical to produce sustainably here, and we're punishing those who already do it most exemplaryly. i am also very disappointed in the european commission, because we are still struggling with the last remaining of mr timmermans. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and we are not prepared to accept them. but i do see the possibility that we will vote here tomorrow on a sensible law where we can create the framework for the next 15 to 20 years to create planning certainty. but i am convinced that we can only do this if we really do this hand in hand, where we involve the farmers, where we also see that we have a broad majority in this house, in the european parliament, for a reasonable proposal so that we can solve this together and not against each other.
question on the procedure of the blue card. thank you very much, mrs. paul. they also referred to the protection of nature in europe, which is important, but the european commission itself says that in the future we will be more dependent on imports of food. but what we are proposing here, and what the report by sarah wiener is, is that we have more imports. how do you plan to transfer this to other countries? i would like to ask the commissioner if he can do something about this.
question on the procedure of the blue card. dear andi, you are talking about total prohibition. what is your view on the immense exception in sensitive areas, where all regions with all pesticides are authorised in the member states? why do you always talk about total prohibition when there's no such thing?
question on the procedure of the blue card. mr lins, you are talking about protected areas that should be there. could you tell me briefly which protected areas you would like to protect against chemical pesticides? what are they? and how do you plan to protect them?
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. we all know that everything we put out into nature eventually ends up on our plates and also in our bodies, and that's where environmental toxins have absolutely nothing to lose. in my view, this report would be a decisive step towards bringing the green deal back to the ground. it takes a clear attitude beautiful headlines are too few. we are in a situation where the four largest seed companies also control over two thirds of the pesticide market. the question of our livelihood is one we must not leave to a few companies. we must finally reduce our dependencies and create alternatives to environmental toxins like glyphosate and co. this requires a joint european effort to launch a research initiative, to develop ecological and effective alternatives to the pesticides used so far. this is also very important for european agriculture and our security of supply. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card procedure.)
question on the procedure of the blue card. thank you, mr president. the question of how we can use plant protection products in our home region of wachau in the future is also at issue tomorrow. will you follow sarah wiener's suggestion here, who will really put in place a near-imposition and extreme requirements, or will you and your spö delegation here propose to agree to one of our alternatives?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. there is already an incredible trend in wachau to get away from plant protection products. this is a trend that cannot be stopped in viticulture. and as for the wachau, it is certainly a very sensitive issue here. i am sure that the proposal as a whole will take this into account.
the rapporteur. the commission has already taken a number of steps. i would like to ask the commissioner whether the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the commission is able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take the necessary measures. i would like to ask the commissioner if he can give us a clear answer on this point. there is an exception for the front runners, which is reduced, especially for your country for example. mr liese, you can repeat this ten times with the treaty. it is actually a paragraph within which regional reduction programmes are recognised, just like the sur. we have, so to speak, expanded the toolbox for farmers and we would like to encourage them and give them independent advice to free them from expensive inputs. because today you don't make a living in agriculture, you make a living in agriculture, and i don't understand why you're not willing to do that. farmers are also part of society, have children, want to stay healthy, want fertile soils, healthy water and better soil for future generations. all these massive attacks that you are predicting may be good for the campaign, but you should still be careful that we have a responsibility to europeans, farmers, and not to say something out loud and scream and scare these people. our job is to move forward into the future and do something practical, to do good for everyone. because only if it's for everyone, for the world, for the farmers, for us, for the children, then it's a win-win situation, and then it's future-proof. we need a pesticide reduction as a big target: 50% by 2030. we have to start now. they know it and they know it: if it is not achieved, the commission can change it. so what are you afraid of? what are you afraid of? let us all vote for a good sur tomorrow and not stay like the agriculture committee under the sud, because then we wouldn't need all these negotiations over the last year and a half. and that's what's gonna lead us to the desert, i'm sure. i would like to thank my shadow rapporteurs, the dedicated citizens and farmers who have supported me. and one more small remark, because you always say that: we are farmers. i am a farmer myself, and i want a stable, sustainable agriculture and a life.
mr president, i want to speak to you. the eu wants to reduce emissions from heavy commercial vehicles. and what does the eu think of that? new rules and new prohibitions. unfortunately, the only thing that comes from the eu lately is prohibitions. how about alternatives? what about a further extension of the railway? what about incentives for lower-emission trucks and buses instead of unrealistic and expensive bans? at the same time, the eu is destroying european agriculture. at the same time, the eu is destroying regional food production with absurd and unrealistic regulations and bans. and what does that mean in the end? more imports, more traffic, more trucks on our roads, more emissions and of course and this has become a basic principle in the eu more cost to citizens. the politics of this eu are becoming increasingly absurd.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. the commission has already decided to adopt a new budget in the context of the current crisis. this agreement represents a balanced compromise between the sparing use of taxpayer funds and important investments. the increase of eur 85 million for horizon europe compared with the commission proposal shows the european parliament's clear commitment to the economic and investment location and to its entrepreneurs. the additional eur 20 million for young farmers is also welcome to increase the attractiveness of this profession and, above all, to stimulate investment for these young people. yes, after this budget we now face another major challenge with the mff which we must overcome in order to strengthen and make our union more resilient again.
madam president, prime minister, i am a convinced european social democrat and from austria, and i have to say i think european solutions and cooperation is better than veto. so therefore i have to say clearly i do not understand the austrian veto against the schengen membership of bulgaria and romania. i think it is a big mistake european-wise, but also austrian-wise. secondly, prime minister, being a european i have also to say i work very much on the enlargement and i am very much involved in the western balkans and therefore i think also that north macedonia needs the support of bulgaria in order to enter the european union. they have made huge reforms and they would be your best friend. so please also help north macedonia to be quite soon a member of the european union.
- madam president, please. a black day for the environment and health, for society and for the liberation of farmers from the agro-industry. (sighs) but i would like to ask the envi committee to forward the report back to me, in accordance with article 59 (4) of the rules of procedure of the european parliament. (applause)
in the name of the s&d faction. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. it is high time that the european parliament receives a direct right of initiative for legislative proposals in order to effectively pursue the interests of citizens. five months ago, the european parliament, by a large majority, proposed amendments to the law to protect citizens from the misuse of spyware. we have been waiting or waiting for a corresponding answer until today. and that is a disregard for the treaty-based loyalty bond between the eu institutions. the commission's position that no legislative action is necessary undermines the situation because new cases of suspicion show that the existing legal framework is not sufficient, either in the member states or at european level, to prevent and punish abuse. a plan of action to prevent the misuse of spyware against european citizens should therefore be submitted without delay and all legislative and non-legislative powers within the competence of the european union should be exercised.
on behalf of the ppe group. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. we have already had an exciting day today when it comes to plant protection, and the word pollinators, bees and co. is also mentioned. if it's about the real protectors of our pollinators, it's the farmers; and if we see frontal attacks on agriculture here again and again, that's just a lie. a simple, practical example: i have an apartment in brussels, and when i open the window there on a summer's evening, the light is on inside and it's dark outside, not a single insect comes in. when i'm at my country house, when i'm sitting in my office at night and opening the window, even now in winter, i open the window, five minutes, and i'm out again quickly, because everything's full of gels and stuff. and then getting the accusation that agriculture is to blame for all the insects dying, that's a little far-fetched. so you can see that there is still biodiversity right there, right there is still the possibility that pollinators are in the area, that bumblebees and bees are in the area, and we should do something in the cities. if there is only light, light pollution, and the cities are lit all night, then the insects really don't know each other anymore. and i call on the colleagues to discuss reasonable approaches here. i think we all have a common goal of getting more pollinators, but that's only possible with each other, and not in a fight where one blames the other.
the report is not yet available. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. the european union has finally returned to the brexit issue and, following the windsor agreement, there has been a rapprochement between the european union and the united kingdom. but it is also important that we continue to ensure that environmental, social, labour rights and competitive advantages are still addressed and that they also deserve our attention. and given the global crisis, it is also necessary that we pour this good cooperation that exists into an institutional framework agreement. i would like to ask your consent to this report.
- madam president, please. firstly, this report on the european elections next year is nothing more than a plea for a central state headed by brussels. this is evident in the top-level candidate system and also in the transnational lists for the european elections. the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of workers' rights and the right to work. and these values are increasingly being challenged, even combated, by the mass immigration from the islamic cultural circle, almost encouraged by the eu. but this report will be ridiculous when the rapporteurs complain about disinformation from abroad. it is the eu itself that, for example, leaves citizens unaware of the enormous costs and massive negative impacts of the green deal. this is disinformation! this eu does not make policies for its citizens, and therefore its support among citizens is also waning. that's the truth!
the report is not yet available. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. yes, tomorrow we will vote on the so-called breakfast directive, but in the end we are talking about four different directives on honey, fruit juices, marmalades and dehydrated milk. i would like to begin by thanking all the shadow rapporteurs and staff for reaching agreement so quickly on the parliamentary side, and i am also glad that we will also conclude the trilogy in this mandate. i think we've accomplished something great. i would like to say that the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of animals. i am really proud that we have implemented three important points: first, a very deep identification of origin, second, a clear traceability of honey's origin and the prohibition of honey that is really easily falsifiable. the eu currently produces around 220 000 tonnes of honey, but the demand for honey is much, much higher, and around 175 000 tonnes of honey are imported annually. forty percent of these imports come from china, and much of it is actually not honey at all, but syrup made from rice, wheat or sugar beans and stained with paint and other flavors. and a european commission study this spring revealed that out of 320 samples examined in 147 they could not determine whether it was really pure honey or just a fake. and that's exactly what consumers are not currently aware of on the label. for now, all that needs to be said is that honey from eu or non-eu countries is already the first part of the dizziness. and we really agreed here on a very good and ambitious proposal that we want to have accurate percentages, percentage rankings, of which country the honey comes from. the fact that there is really good and fair transparency here is important for our consumers on the one hand to make a clear direction in a purchase decision and for our european buyers on the other. we often decide on texts where we want to protect bees, where we want to have more pollinators on our continent and we can support that with these decisions. and we also decided that when it comes to traceability, to control, that we need a european reference laboratory here so that we can determine exactly from which region this honey comes from and that there will be no further falsification. but besides honey, there are other products like fruit juices and jam. and in the fruit juice sector, there's going to be a new category of sugar-reduced fruit juice. the demand for less sugary products is increasing, and so we have now created the possibility that these reduced-sugar fruit juices are actually available. and i am also very happy that we also discussed the area of origin marking for fruit juices and marmalades and when we talk about origin here that we want to establish this as well, similar to honey, that there is also and we also know here that there is a lot of import from third countries to far different standards than we have here in the european union there are clear and reasonable points. and finally, there is good news for the german-speaking world: we can eliminate a 22-year-old madness. we can finally say "marmalade" again in austria and germany. this was an area that was left over by the irish and the british, so that marmalade could only be called that if it contained sugar and citrus fruits. now, finally, marmalade can be called marmalade. a point that many in the german-speaking world can welcome. i would like to thank everyone for this constructive cooperation and i look forward to the report being adopted by a large majority in the plenary tomorrow.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. the european union has always stressed the importance of open, fair and rules-based trade relations. in this context, trade relations between the eu and taiwan have gained considerable importance in recent years. the eu is taiwan's fourth largest trading partner after china, the us and japan, and in 2022 the total trade volume reached a record high of 84.2 billion. the eu recognises the opportunities and potential of deeper cooperation and is committed to further strengthening trade and investment with taiwan. the semiconductor industry is the engine of innovation in many sectors from the electronics to the automotive industry. this can also help us in the digital transformation in europe. the commission has also been asked to take a decision on the implementation of the wto's reforms. however, we must not ignore the fact that there are considerable problems and tensions between china and taiwan in trade relations. the efforts of the people's republic of china to isolate taiwan politically have an impact on economic relations. it is important that the eu takes a balanced stance and aims to bring trade and political stability into line with each other. in this context, i would like to recall the joint responsibility of the european union and taiwan to further deepen trade relations, to bridge the gaps of understanding and thus to lay the foundation for a successful, peaceful and cooperative future.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, thank you for the big support. i would like to ask to refer back to committee according to rule 59(4) in order to start the interinstitutional negotiations.
i am not sure what the commissioner has said. the internal market and the eco-social market economy are the roots of the european union. but it doesn't just need roots, it needs wings, and our wings the competitiveness we've neglected in recent years, even though great powers like the us and china have continued their growth course. it was not until the united states passed the inflation reduction act that europe was awakened from economic slumber. cheap energy, low bureaucracy and tax credits have also attracted european businesses. the european response with the net-zero industry act is a good step for investments in the future. the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for a new programme for the promotion of the environment. we need the representatives of smes in particular, urgently for our small and mediumsized enterprises, to ensure a secure and successful future for them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not going to be able to do this. in these geopolitically challenging times, it is crucial that we as the european union maintain close and trusting relations with like-minded partners. so it's important that after the presidency of donald trump, the eu and the us have come closer, and i hope that will continue to do so but without trump. with the eu-us trade and technology council, we coordinate global trade, economic and technology issues. i would like to say that the commission is not going to be able to do this without the help of the commission. not only in the economic sphere, but also in view of the crisis herd on european and israeli soil, a strong eu-us alliance is of great importance in order to stand together for our values and for peace.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. the ukrainians have been fighting for 657 days for our common values. the european union is a very important part of the european union. but it must also be clear that there is no shortcut to full membership in the european union. the eu accession process is well-founded in the fact that reforms must also be carried out in the countries concerned. austria has already made a proposal for the gradual and gradual integration of the western balkans. for example, they should be included early in discussions when making decisions in future areas. when, if not now, is the time to reform the enlargement process for the european union, to think bigger, but also to recognize that the population must be included and included?
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. more and more young people cannot afford their own apartment, whether to buy or rent. the covid crisis, precarious employment conditions, poor pay, have made the problem that existed before a serious one. and while people can't afford rent, they can't afford the loan rates for their mortgages, on the other hand, real estate companies and banks are getting richer and richer. and so the question is very much at the moment, all over europe: what can we do? and that means that living is a fundamental right, and politics must finally act. this means: rental price brakes against the extremely high rental increases currently taking place, more funding from national governments, better access to eu housing funds, strong, safe rental and social housing, social, quality and affordable social housing. and i would also like to bring the example of vienna to this point and congratulate you on being voted a city worthy of living again right now, because it is socially fair and because it offers good housing opportunities with a high proportion of social housing for the people in that city.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. a year after qatar and especially morocco, you have to say: firstly, the european parliament has reacted. the special committee of inquiry also dealt with proposals for the revision of the rules of procedure. important measures also to combat corruption have been proposed and some of them have been implemented. all deadlines for eu members must be made public, assets must be made public, conflicts of interest must be exposed. these are longstanding demands that have finally been met. but is that enough? no, not for long. all transparency alone will not solve the problem in a sustainable way. we need clear and strict rules to prevent morocco and qatar from doing so in the future. for example, it must not be possible and tolerated that some members of parliament are both a mandator and a lobbyist in this house. we need to reform the rules of procedure. the one we made was a first step, but we have to move on, and that takes a majority in the house. i have often felt that the majority of people are being prevented from seeking strong reforms, more transparency, especially by those who often denounce many things. this can't go on!
in the name of the s&d faction. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. it is long overdue that we should point out in the european parliament the situation of tibetans. their culture and language are under threat, their religious freedom is severely restricted. demonstrations are violently crushed. now, with the approval of the chinese regime, over a million tibetan children have been separated from their parents and sent to forced internments. three quarters of all pupils are affected. the aim is to erase their tibetan identity. the rights of children are systematically violated. this is another incredible culmination of a whole series of human rights violations that the tibetan people have to endure in the people's republic of china. as the usa has already announced, the conditions for issuing visas for chinese officials associated with these boarding schools in tibet should be tightened in the european union. a peaceful solution to tibet can and will only be achieved through dialogue and negotiations with the tibetan community in exile.
