president, commissioner, minister, the single market is without doubt the crown jewel of the european union. internal trade alone accounts for 56 million jobs and 8 to 9% of our gdp. but the work is not done. for years i have advocated the completion of the single market, which would create a huge growth in our prosperity. i also ask the commission to finally take action against de facto protectionism. unfortunately, there are limits. french retailers, for example, are systematically refusing to sell products from our flourishing flemish agro-industry. it has to be a "produit de france". finally, the revision of state aid rules threatens to undermine the level playing field for companies from small member states. so there is cause for celebration, ladies and gentlemen, but there is also a lot of work ahead for the commission and the council.
madam president, mr prime minister, i would like to congratulate you for your government. it’s what the swedish people want, and usually we call that democracy. i thought we needed to remind that after what we all heard this morning. i also want to say that a new year usually comes with new resolutions and better decisions. but apparently not for the eu. every year we face the same problems and every year we make the same old mistakes; the same old mistakes like moralisation taboos, political correctness and inaction. of course, we get the same old results that nobody is waiting for. you know, it’s like when there is someone in your life on whom you can never count, despite a thousand promises and excuses – we are that person. i cannot blame the voters who want to break up with us sometimes as the eu. you too, wouldn’t you ? if you are always disappointed and let down, and forced to pay taxes for that treatment. so, mr prime minister, your country has faced serious crime and the consequences of failed integration. your recent elections revealed how angry and worried the swedish people are. i hope this swedish presidency will be the presidency of courage and determination, commitment and achievement, the presidency to tackle child sexual abuse and online protection of our children, to tackle drugs, violence and money laundering, to strengthen nato together and to address the elephant in the room – illegal migration. mr prime minister, you have six months in the spotlight, please show us the courage.
madam president, commissioner, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, the prime minister can count on the european parliament to achieve the objectives he has set himself: a safer europe, a more competitive and resilient european union, and one which also defends european values. i hope that the council will also be involved in these objectives, because it is not enough to discuss, analyse and state them, they must be put into practice. and we need this strategic autonomy, and for that we need to have common projects. and not having them comes at a very high cost to citizens. it's about how much we pay for not having security and energy supply. well, we need the energy union, the digital union, civil protection, secure connectivity, the health union, the defence union. and for that, we need means. it is not enough to state objectives. we need financial resources. you say how much we need for each of these resources, and we are available to review the multiannual financial framework for these common objectives. is the council also available? is the council available for the revision of the multiannual financial framework? and another very important point: we need new recipes. we must be in solidarity with future generations and we must be credible. the cost of nextgenerationeu, the debt of the recovery and resilience plans after 2027, is 10 percent of the annual budget, and we need a robust budget for this strong european union. and let us not forget another point: our relationship with those who also defend european values. and in this sense, it is also necessary that our external relations be based on these values. it helps our sovereignty and, from this point of view, mercosur is also an important point that must be left out of the discussion.
the six months of the swedish presidency will be decisive for a major reform of the european asylum and migration policy, which has been long awaited and blocked for years. the european pact on asylum and migration, presented in september 2020, is finally making progress, notably through the establishment of the joint roadmap between parliament and the council, which my group and i have called for, with a view to adopting this reform by april 2024. the war in ukraine, the many crises in europe's neighbourhood demonstrate how essential a united and strong europe is around the migration challenge. a europe that can welcome persecuted people. a europe that controls its borders and fights against the smuggling of migrants. a europe of responsibility and solidarity. mr prime minister, are you prepared to take this european pact on asylum and migration forward with all the pro-european and centrist forces?
madam president, mr prime minister, as the czech republic's representative in the european parliament, i welcome your commitment to the priorities set by the czech presidency. in particular, it is a clear support for ukraine. as you said, in ukraine, they're fighting for our security, for our way of life, for our values. that's why you want to join with all the members of the european union to support ukraine militarily, humanitarian. i'd like to hear from you if you'd support a package of new sanctions to respond to further russian attacks on civilians. besides, we have to deal with the impact of russian aggression on our economy, on our citizens. today, the european parliament will be discussing how to deal with the impact of inflation on food, and food security should remain at the centre of our attention. the swedish presidency should continue this priority and also ensure food security and support for european farmers. we have new legislation on new genomic techniques that should be introduced this semester. i'm asking for your attention here, too. let me ask you to speed up the swedish presidency's establishment of a special international tribunal to punish the crimes of aggression committed by the russian military, president putin and his government. i expect the swedish presidency to push for the creation of this tribunal. in conclusion, i would like to ask you to engage the swedish presidency in stopping the forcible deportation of ukrainian citizens, especially children, and their adoption by russian citizens. this is part of the russian genocide against the ukrainian people and the attempt to russify, especially the unacceptable crimes against children and their rights. i wish you, mr president, much strength, energy and success in maintaining the unity of the european union in all these areas.
madam president, mr vice-president šefčovič, mr prime minister kristersson, i would like to ask you to give priority to romania's accession to the schengen area during the swedish presidency of the council of the european union, which i am sure you will be able to exercise very successfully. you know, you're a person known for fairness. sweden is a democratic country and we all expect you to be the champion of repairing this great injustice that has been done to romania. because, despite european regulations, despite all the checks made by the european commission, romania and romanians have been denied a fundamental right: to be full citizens of the european union. and these holidays, mr. prime minister, were not right for the romanians. in addition to the prices, in addition to the inflation, in addition to the over three million ukrainian refugees who came to romania, the romanians who came home to spend the holidays or to leave had to endure the humiliation of these queues at airports, at border crossing points and, above all, the trafficking of goods that brings great losses to the romanian economy. please, then, that you may right this wrong. the auspices are favorable, the elections in austria will be over next week and i think that now is the time for you to be able to link your name to the reparation of an injustice that is obvious and unacceptable for romania and for romanians: romania's access to the schengen area. and i wish you success, mr. prime minister!
madam president, success and congratulations on the priorities of the swedish presidency! a lot of topics, important topics, the war in ukraine. europe must unite in this battle against the evil of the 21st century. energy issues, consolidation on many geopolitical issues, all of these are important. mr. prime minister, two topics have no place in the swedish presidency. one topic is the future of schengen. bulgaria and romania should finally be in the schengen area, why is this not part of the swedish presidency's agenda? how can we win the hearts and minds of european citizens? how can the european project in 2024 be the project for democracy, the rule of law, high democratic standards and progress in the future? how can all of this be accomplished? it's not possible if bulgaria and romania don't join schengen. and secondly, the issue of the integration of the western balkans in particular. will it ensure that the swedish presidency is a good successor to the policies of the previous one, the czech presidency and all those presidencies which have placed the western balkans at the centre of their policies? i don't see it in the priorities list. will there be a summit between the european union and the western balkan countries? this is not just a european union issue, it's a geopolitical issue that we have to deal with regardless of who holds the rotating presidency of the european union.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the swedish presidency comes at the right time. people in europe are seriously worried. we are facing a series of crises: housing shortages, border controls, the war between russia and ukraine, but also the skyrocketing price of fuel and electricity for the average person. invention is and has been very important for sweden's future, and we will be an example for other countries in many ways. but most importantly, the swedish government is also showing that cooperation is extremely important. cooperation between different groups and political colours - that's exactly what makes it possible to reach a population with different opinions and achieve a majority. it should be done more often in this house too - to let the swedish government set an example, to listen to each other and to learn from each other. because the fact is, everyone here has been democratically elected. some in this house have a skewed view of democracy. their political ideas are mostly accusations and slander when they don't get what they want. i wish the government of ulf kristerson the best of luck and every success with the presidency.
a uachtaráin roberta, a phríomh-aire agus a chairde, sweden takes on the presidency of the council at a time of great flux for the eu, as we face numerous political, economic and security challenges. almost one year ago, putin’s tanks rolled into ukraine and began this bloody war of aggression. the war in ukraine exposed vulnerabilities in our critical systems and triggered an unprecedented energy crisis inside the bloc. we must futureproof our energy system. i call on the swedish government, during this presidency of the council, to draw on sweden’s long-standing reputation as a climate leader and to bring forward measures that allow for the efficient production, storage and distribution of energy to citizens and businesses across europe, guided by the energy-efficiency-first principle. in particular, i sincerely hope that during the swedish presidency, parliament and the council can work closely to secure an agreement on the energy performance of buildings directive, of which i am the lead negotiator on behalf of the epp group. this file is particularly unique and addresses a fundamental pillar of achieving our climate goals: the built environment. difficult decisions will have to be made, but as legislators, it is our responsibility to look at our long-term interests regardless of political gain. disinformation about the epbd is already starting to circulate and the eu institutions and member state governments must take action to set the record straight. it is my hope that the swedish presidency can be a leader in this area and i look forward to close cooperation over the next six months to deliver a strong and effective epbd.
madam president, put on your seatbelts and your headphones, because i am going to speak in swedish. (addressing prime minister kristessen) that doesn’t concern you, probably. fru talman! vad är det sverige kan göra som ordförandeland och göra bättre? det finns en lite besvärlig tendens i europeiska unionen att alltid beskriva allting i lite ljusröda färger. allting är jättebra och pengarna kommer in osv. lite mer realism kan skapa förtroende, och det kan vara välbehövligt. i den juridiska eller juristiska debatten om eu dyker det upp ett återkommande begrepp: competence creep, befogenhetsförskjutning. vad betyder det? det betyder att gränserna för vad vilken del av unionen kan eller bör göra blir lite suddiga. det leder i sin tur till ett ökande manöverutrymme för diverse populistiska rörelser – det känner ni till. det känner vi till i finland. det känner vi till i nästan alla europeiska länder. processerna kring lagstiftning börjar med rådets slutsatser, council conclusions. men om man granskar slutsatserna lite mer noggrant, ser man någonting besvärande, nämligen att de är löst skrivna och okonkreta, och styr inte processerna på det sätt som avtalen och medlemsstaternas rätt och intressen egentligen förutsatte. det finns en dikt av min gudfar nils ferlin – det är därför jag heter nils – som påminner oss. dess början lyder så här: ”du har tappat ditt ord och din papperslapp, du barfota barn i livet.” det finns en rad till. ”tänk efter en stund. var det långt eller kort, var det väl eller illa skrivet” – och slutsatserna är för det mesta illa skrivna. det fanns också en god hänvisning i ditt tal, och det är vi jättetacksamma för. du sade: ”jag vaknade upp i helsingfors.” det är en bra början.
madam president, mr prime minister, you have made support for ukraine at economic, military and political level a top priority of your presidency. i can only be happy, of course. ladies and gentlemen, you have seen in recent days the cacophony of hesitations which can still exist between the various european countries in the matter of military support, particularly. i hope, mr prime minister, that you will use your presidency to strengthen what i consider essential: european defence. this building of european defence is essential for our sovereignty and independence and will also show the strength of europe. this sovereignty must obviously be found in such strategic sectors as energy, digital, food and health, beyond the defence i mentioned. these various sovereignties and independence guarantee a form of independence for us, of strength vis-à-vis the european citizens, of course, but also vis-à-vis the rest of the world. i hope, mr prime minister, that you will use your presidency to move in the direction of this greater autonomy, which is also a guarantee of defending our democratic values which are essential for the rest of the world and for europeans.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, listening to you today, one thing is clear: you are committed to take action, to make integrity, independence and accountability not only a goal, but reality. to rebuild trust, to ensure that decisions are taken for the right reasons, it is critical for the commission that all institutions have uniform, strong rules in place and participate in an ethics body which is truly interinstitutional to ensure that all our institutions stand for the highest standard. when it comes to actual crime and corruption, we also need decisive action. i will propose the corruption package already in april. one thing is sure: we are going for an ambitious, maximalist approach to ensure there are no gaps that could be exploited for any corruption activities, and to harmonise the definitions of corruption, offences and penalties across the eu to the highest possible standard. we will also look into enhancing the capacity of law enforcement and judicial authorities to investigate and prosecute corruption offences. i look forward to the continuous strong cooperation with you in this house to shape these initiatives, to ensure that they are up to the task, to fight corruption, and to bring better transparency and accountability of the institutions.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. this serious scandal is therefore continuing to expand. i said december. and there are already forces that seem to prefer not to change the rules too much. yet there is clearly a structural problem. beyond the illegal practices, there is a really unhealthy money culture here. a member of the european parliament already has a hefty salary. these incomes make meps closer to the bourgeoisie than to the working class. and it shows in the laws that are passed. we must reduce these revenues drastically. but in addition, some meps accept all-expenses paid trips to third countries without declaring them, or earn tens of thousands of euros more through 'additional jobs' in private or investment companies. and it's totally legal! but how independent are you really as a member of parliament if you are earning tens of thousands of euros a month on top of your job? that is what our amendment to the resolution adopted here in december is all about. let's give the transparency register a little bit of a whirl. we'll ensure that we have independent oversight. let's ban high-paying side jobs. let us block the revolving doors between the european institutions and the big companies.
madam president, the absent commission president has been with us for exactly one hour. this also shows the commission's interest in the views of meps. thank you, mr. michel, for sticking with us to the very end. i'm appalled by what i'm hearing. if you're thinking of supporting ukraine by supplying more tanks, i'm saddened. more sanctions, military support, 3 billion euros already released from european money to support ukraine, but no one knows who and what they are for. is that really all the european council and commission can do? do they not for a moment consider themselves to be a catalyst and a peacemaker? do you remember why the esuo was created as the forerunner of the european union? it's to prevent war, of course. but you've all forgotten that. the green deal will solve it eventually. you know what you've missed out on in your politics? a human being. he won't drown at home with your war plans, he won't be cured by guns, he won't be paid for his overpriced food with sanctions, and he won't be paid a decent wage with the green deal. think of him that way for a while, ladies and gentlemen. or don't be surprised that more and more people across europe don't trust you and question the very meaning of this institution.
madam president, allow me to use this point to give a brief assessment of the czech presidency of the council, as it was the last council under the czech presidency. let me say that the czech presidency, and i hope we can all agree on this, was a successful presidency. that the czech republic has shown itself to be a patient negotiator of compromises, a consensus seeker, a facilitator, not a country that would pursue its own interests at any cost. and that's how it should be. the czech presidency addressed specific problems. it avoided the trap of various ideological solutions, such as those for changing the treaties or the functioning of the institutions, which emerged from the conference on the future of europe. in conclusion, let me also remind you that this was the first time that a prime minister from my political group, the european conservatives and reformists, has headed a government of the presidency. i hope that, in view of the good results of this presidency, there will no longer be any embarrassing remarks about anti-europeans or the far right, especially from the left of the spectrum.
president, ukraine is and will remain a terribly corrupt country. western weapons are coming on the black market. financial support comes in corrupt pockets. what are we doing in that country? when the united states invaded iraq, we were not all standing together calling for sanctions against america and support for iraq. the eu is destroying itself. the sanctions on gas and oil are affecting our industry. the financial aid is hurting our economy. on top of the consequences of the war in ukraine are taxes and dictates for senseless and unnecessary climate goals. member states are impoverished and citizens and businesses are paying the price. the citizens of europe do not want war, poverty or a green dictatorship, but peace, prosperity and freedom. i say to the commission: stop this self-destruction, start working for peace.
madam president, vice-president šefčovič and president charles michel, i would like to welcome the council's conclusions. we have a correction mechanism that might work this time, and we want to see these results. we're sorry you didn't introduce them at the beginning of the year, we wouldn't have had them now, so let's all look at the top most profitable energy companies, with profits in the first nine months of over 200 billion euros. companies have made profits, paid people, paid companies, and now it's time to say stop. secondly, the common gas purchasing mechanism must be put into operation and we hope that all these bills will finally be seen at the right level. mr president, i am very sorry that romania has not been accepted into schengen in this council, and this regret is for 20 million romanians, it is for a country that is deeply european and because only one country, austria, was able to veto that is against european rules, against european regulations and, despite some evidence, the european commission and everyone said that romania had done its homework. fix this injustice, mr. president. the economic losses are huge, there are queues at the trains that transport the goods for tens of kilometers, days and weeks are lost and romania and the romanians do not deserve this treatment. please, mr. president, take these measures immediately.
madam president, i have to go. we are discussing a very important topic and energy is also one of those that, because of the war, has marked the last year and will continue to do so. we are also talking about the american measures to control inflation, and one of these measures that has been taken in the united states is very much related to the use of nuclear energy. they have a plan on how to transform coal sites into nuclear sites, how to create an ecosystem, an environment, how to produce technologies in the existing nuclear energy field, how to subsidize the construction of power plants with fifteen dollars per megawatt, as well as subsidize and accelerate the construction of modular units and invest in fusion. is such a thing possible in europe? because i firmly believe that it will not help us to shape markets by talking a lot about renewables alone, unless we include nuclear energy in this mix of low-carbon sources. and we know that electrification is the foundation for the transition to a low-carbon society. is there any similar action planned by the european union this year?
president. - the statements made by peter berdowski, the chairman of the successful dutch company boskalis, have been a bombshell in the netherlands. extensive legislation and regulation are making it increasingly difficult for companies like boskalis to do business and they are threatening to leave. now it is the netherlands that is once again suffering from its guideline gland, by implementing the corporate social responsibility act more quickly and more strictly, but the source of the bureaucracy is here: the eu. the commission is constantly inventing new laws, new rules, new bureaucratic structures which make business more difficult in all sorts of areas: the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. companies are going crazy over the compliance and audit reports. we call on the commission and the national governments: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. that is a problem for the common market and it will cost us dearly.
madam president, mr charles michel, the people want peace, work with rights and a living wage, the right to health, education and housing. but your response is one of escalation of confrontation, of the militarization of war, without any hint of the demand for an end to war and the defence of peace. your response is to insist on sanctions, even if it means, as in this case, that the people pay with their tongues. your answer is that of temporary and insufficient measures which do not address speculation and safeguard the interests and profits of the large economic groups at the expense of the empty pockets of the workers. no concrete measures to make progress on the path that is truly essential: general wage increases, price controls on essential goods and energy products, market regulation, the restoration of public control of strategic sectors, the development of national production, among others. we are on the side of the workers and peoples' struggle for justice and social progress, for peace.
madam president, mr charles michel, the gloss on the situation that you and mrs von der leyen have put on is not a good adviser. the european union needs more diplomatic initiatives, coupled with solidarity in ukraine, to end the war. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. as democracy and the rule of law are also being eroded within the european union, there is a need for a stronger defence of the rule of law by the council, which often acts as a brake on what the european parliament and the commission are calling for in the form of sanctions against governments, such as hungary. we also need more transparency and zero tolerance for corruption to defend the european union and parliamentary democracy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
madam president, mr president-in-office, commissioner, i must say that i liked the conclusions, they are correct, they are good. it's important how we apply them, because i remind you that we have a two-year reindustrialization strategy and nothing has happened. now we have an industrialization plan, and i hope that's in line with that strategy, but i would add three things that i'm frankly surprised you haven't picked up. mr president, commissioner, there is nothing written here about smes. what about smes? smes are being crushed by all the overlapping crises and i would have liked to have included measures for smes in this project. two, sure it's good to have new trade deals, but it's important how we do them. we still have unfair competition in the internal market and i say this as vice-chair of this committee and i cannot speak of a single market and i said yesterday that i will not use this term, i will speak of a single market until the single market is in place. that is why i think you should propose that romania and bulgaria be part of the internal market. let there really be a single market, let there be no fragmentation of the internal market. and yes, i would have liked to see, hear the word peace. how can we make peace between ukraine and russia, when the whole of the european continent is suffering?
mrs picierno, mr michel, mr šefčovič, there is not a single council conclusions debate in this parliament that has not dealt with the issue of migration and the situation of the rule of law in the european union. it is true that putin's brutal, illegal and criminal war against ukraine has reshaped both of them. as regards migration, the humanitarian response of the european union does, however, provide an opportunity to finally strike the right balance between binding solidarity and shared responsibility, which is pending the completion, according to the road map, of the new european union pact on migration and asylum. as regards the rule of law, we welcome the announcement by the swedish presidency that it will resume hearings under the article 7 procedure concerning two states which are clearly not respecting the rule of law: hungary and poland. we welcome the fact that poland has reformed its disciplinary chamber and its judicial laws in accordance with the mandates of this parliament, which is under pressure from the rule of law conditionality regulation. but i would like to underline the decisive role played by the european parliament in achieving this step forward, which is the right direction in respecting the rule of law.
madam president, vice-president šefčovič, today we welcome the commission’s proposal to accelerate and facilitate investments for the clean—tech sector. it is of paramount importance to implement, to deliver our green deal industrial plan. however, in the meantime, there are two issues, according to my opinion, on which we need to take immediate action. the first one is the urgent facilitation to our industry, in particular to our smes, to transform themselves into green and digital entities overall sustainable under the new competition circumstances. second, it is the fast and effective adoption of our green deal industrial plan by the member states, too slow permitting, additional red tape, which are still here, creating additional barriers to the investors. vice-president šefčovič, it is now time to have more focus, more focus on creating jobs, jobs and jobs.
i'd like to thank you for your help. sad news from ukraine reminds us that we need to redouble our efforts both militarily and economically to help ukraine win the war and also to cut off all economic ties with russia. we are also celebrating, of course, the single market, which has been a huge success, but side by side with that has been growing regulation and red tape. businesses across europe especially smes are overburdened with this. we've been talking about it for a long time, but we haven't done enough. so i think that's a priority for us over the next few years: to reduce red tape to a minimum so that our businesses can grow. "fit for growth" should be our policy in relation to industry and businesses for the next decade.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, minister, president of the council, honourable members, my dear colleague, commissioner breton, first and foremost, honourable members, i would like to thank you for the clarity of your support for ukraine. we know how important it is. yet again today, we learned about another tragic accident, which cost young lives, even the lives of children. and i think that mr mureşan put it very well when he said that russia is trying to restore the past. but we europeans and ukrainians are clearly focused on the future. and, therefore, your support, the european support for ukraine, will continue and will continue in all its forms, be it financial – as you know, we just disbursed eur 3 billion to support ukraine and the ukrainian government. we will support ukraine militarily, but we will also provide political support for ukraine and ukrainians, with a clear european perspective for ukraine, as highlighted by mr angel in his intervention. mr séjourné, mr lamberts and others underscored the importance of that european competitiveness and the potential risk of the localisation of the well-performing european companies elsewhere. therefore, as our president highlighted this morning, we are laying out our green deal industrial plan and we will propose a net-zero industry act that will simplify and accelerate our procedures and our state aid assessment. and we will focus more than ever on the skills which are needed and required by our industry. as mr angel underlined, there is also a clear understanding of the importance of the level playing field in our single market. and i would like to reassure all honourable members that all state aid schemes which needed to be checked were properly checked. but also we understand and we know that there are differences among the member states when it comes to the fiscal space. therefore, we propose the creation of the sovereignty fund to make sure that we make our economy stronger and more competitive, that our strategic autonomy will be more present, and that the single market would deliver even more. so i think that our message to industry is very clear: we want you to prosper and we want you to prosper in europe. and i am sure that you will have a very good debate on this topic with my colleague, mr breton, who is going to discuss how to boost industrial competitiveness in the european union. allow me to conclude on the very important point of schengen. ms grapini, mr nica and mr angel have highlighted how important it is to make sure that romania and bulgaria become members of schengen. therefore, also, on behalf of the commission, we would like to appreciate the decision of the swedish presidency to include this item on the agenda of the next justice and home affairs council because, as you know, the commission firmly believes that the place of bulgaria and romania is in schengen because they fulfil all the necessary criteria. so, madam president, madam minister, honourable members, thank you very much.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. all signs point to this year being no easier for europe than last year. the russia-ukraine war is not abating, the pressure of illegal migration is increasing, while europe is in the grip of an energy crisis, and most european economies are taking a step-by-step approach to recession. unfortunately, in recent years we have become accustomed to brussels' failure to find the right answers to crisis situations. sanctions policy, on the other hand, has far more serious consequences than before. we need to re-examine the wrong decisions and take a new approach. the lessons of the december council meeting, however, point in many respects in the opposite direction: sanctions policy has been strengthened, the eu's gas cap has been given the green light, while progress on strategically key issues has been missed. the summit was overshadowed by the brussels corruption scandal, which has since been the subject of a string of skeletons falling from the closet. brussels has lost all credibility to call for corruption on others. it has been proven time and again that the european principle does not tolerate dissent, that it seeks to 'bring to its knees' those member states which stand up for their national interests, most recently with its attempts to abolish the unanimity rule. this political pressure cannot be tolerated by member states which believe in strong nation states with less economic power. we will not allow the hungarian people to pay the price for the mistaken decisions and political games in brussels.
in writing. i am pleased that the council conclusions have once again strongly condemned russia's aggressive war against ukraine. the eu fully supports ukraine's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity within its internationally recognised borders, as well as ukraine's inherent right to self-defence against russian aggression. we must therefore remain committed to providing political and military support to ukraine and to helping to de-minate its territory. the continued systematic missile attacks by russia on ukrainian civilians, civilian targets, energy infrastructure and other public services with the aim of causing even greater suffering to the ukrainian people are a crime that cannot go unpunished.
the agenda includes the debate on the council and commission statements on an eu strategy to boost industrial competitiveness, trade and quality jobs (2023/2513 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, let me first extend my deepest condolences to the families of the victims of those injured, many of them children, in the tragic helicopter crash in ukraine. as we await more information, we are once again reminded of the brutality of war and how children suffer the most. let me take this moment once again to underline the swedish presidency’s and the council’s unwavering support for ukraine and for its people. now on the important topic of european competitiveness, the multiple crises we have faced in recent years have showed us that europe needs a strong, efficient and forward—looking approach on its economy. numerous disruptions in global value chains and a significant increase of energy prices have a very negative impact on the eu economy. in addition, the us inflation reduction act is raising concerns across europe. although the ambitious green objectives are to be welcomed, its discriminatory provisions could – depending on how the law is implemented – have considerable negative effects on eu industry. it is clear that further engagement with our us friends is needed to minimise the negative consequences for eu industries, and i encourage the commission to continue this dialogue. these different challenges call for a smart european policy response, based on the forthcoming commission analysis of how the inflation reduction act will affect european industry. most importantly, we need to safeguard europe’s economic, industrial and technological base and preserve the global playing field. to do so, we must continue to accelerate the green and digital transitions of our economy. fortunately, european companies are global leaders in green technology. going forward, we must continue to provide the right conditions for our companies to uphold this position and to push the boundaries further. member states are asking for a more targeted industrial policy strategy that support this. energy costs in europe are high in a global comparison, which makes it difficult for european companies to compete with global peers. europe needs more cheap, green energy in order to get that, so we must continue rolling out the repower eu plan. in europe, we have several assets: skills, cutting—edge research institutes and universities, first—rate infrastructure and our single market as the backbone. we should continue to build on these foundations. our main goal should be to transform europe’s strong fundamentals into more job opportunities, increased productivity, and stronger, more sustainable growth. on monday, we celebrated the 30th anniversary of the single market. in this context, let us not forget that the single market is a key asset, with clear benefits for european citizens and industries. state aid can in some cases be useful to nudge development and innovation in a desired direction. but we should make sure that our rules are coordinated, balanced and based on proper analysis. and as many have pointed out, no one would gain from a subsidy race, neither between the eu and the us, nor between eu member states. finally, as suggested by the european council conclusions from december, there is also a long—term work stream in relation to this. in other words, the short—term actions to mitigate consequences of the inflation reduction act should not be counterproductive and pose an obstacle to long—term competitiveness. these work streams need to be aligned. the long—term competitiveness and productivity strategy is about the eu taking charge of its attractiveness and standing in the world economy. businesses have long—term perspectives and therefore need predictable, competitive framework conditions for their investments. ultimately, this is what will decide where future economic growth will take place. thank you very much for your attention. i am really looking forward to this debate.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam minister, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament for putting this very important subject on the agenda this morning. of course, we know the context. we know this all too well, because, in addition to the energy crisis, which is having a much greater impact in europe than in the rest of the world, europe is facing the efforts of third countries, who, let us not be afraid to say it, are trying to attract our industrial capacity. the american law on reducing inflation, known as the ira, has of course been the focus of all the concerns for several months now. but make no mistake, china is also encouraging energy-intensive companies to off-shore all or part of their production by promising them access to cheap electricity and a less strict regulatory environment than in europe. as a result, there is a real risk of companies moving abroad, as you all know. the investments needed to build a european industrial base of the clean technologies of tomorrow are being redirected outside the european union. moreover, this is not just a problem for large groups, but also affects the whole of the supply chain and, in a very worrying way, our smes. europe therefore needs to take its destiny into its own hands, as you have heard me say, i believe, on several occasions since i became commissioner. first, it is a matter of sending a strong signal to companies very quickly. europe means business and the future of industry will be on our continent. that's our political signal. because europe is at the forefront of innovation. we have a skilled workforce and also state-of-the-art infrastructure. secondly, it is about accelerating the development of the manufacturing base that is necessary for our green transition. because without a strong manufacturing base, europe's security of supply, export capacity and job creation are at risk. we are seeing a tendency to be relegated to the simple net importer of electric vehicles or solar panels. but we cannot resign ourselves to replacing our dependence on fossil fuels with new dependencies, industrial, technological or in the supply of rare earths, for example. thirdly, it is about putting in place sustainable solutions that work for all eu countries. because in the face of this new structural reality, the framework we are putting in place must obviously not benefit only a few large countries in the union. we need solutions that preserve the integrity of the internal market and guarantee conditions of competition which are obviously fair. ladies and gentlemen, in order to complete our digital transition, we have set ourselves the objective of increasing the european union's share of the global market in semiconductor manufacturing to 20% by 2030. and to make this ambition a reality, we have clearly proposed, as you know, this famous "chip act", the semiconductor regulation, which will allow us to build a resilient supply chain in the field of semiconductors. well, let's do the same for the green transition. we have ambitions to be the first carbon neutral continent by 2050. that is a beautiful and strong ambition. that's our ambition. so let us make sure that this is done through a strong european industrial base in the fields of clean technologies, the famous so-called cleantech technologies. and so this is a cleantech act, like the semiconductor act, the famous "chip act", which we have to present today. the 'net-zero industry act', announced by president von der leyen, will therefore set clear regulatory targets for a manufacturing base of clean technologies, cleantech, by 2030. for example, for the production of batteries, solar panels, electrolysers, wind turbines and all the related value chains and which support the production of the elements essential to our transition. in concrete terms, we will create the conditions for the manufacture of clean technologies in europe, firstly through reduced administrative burden and accelerated licensing procedures. second, through changes and accelerations of state aid rules, including by offering an aid intensity equivalent to that of third countries, to support clean technology manufacturing plants and which affect all cleantech players. finally, thanks to the support for the demand for european solutions through our public procurement. the net-zero industry act will also be the political and legislative vehicle to ensure the necessary european transparency and coordination rather than relying on purely national solutions. we will also need a european funding pillar where simplification and speed will be key elements. and in the run-up to the sovereignty fund, which will be discussed in the context of the mid-term review of the union's financial perspective, we do need short-term financing solutions so that each member state has the capacity to support its industrial base. to this end, we are assessing needs and stabilising a coherent toolbox to meet the different needs of the member states, which is the only way of course to ensure consistency and a level playing field. all this, of course, requires a more assertive and, let us not be afraid to say it, less naive trade policy. the foreign subsidies regulation, which will come into force this summer, will play a key role in this respect and reminds us that public procurement has become an absolutely major economic and geo-strategic lever. finally, i would like to conclude with a few words on the absolutely essential role of smes in european competitiveness. our 25 million or so european smes, employing nearly 100 million people, are clearly the backbone of our economy. and yet, they are vulnerable. this is why the commission is preparing a package of relief for smes in 2023. the revision of the late payment directive will also be a key element of this package. but our smes need much more than that. for 55% of them, administrative burden is the number one concern. and despite our collective efforts to exempt smes or treat them more lightly in our legislation, this burden continues to grow. i will therefore work with my colleagues in the college to ensure that any new initiative planned this year is preceded by a full test for smes. and i am counting on you, as co-legislators, to support me in this commitment and to also raise the sme flag in all policy areas. ladies and gentlemen, this is the comprehensive response we need and i know i can count on you.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, in a way, it’s ironic that it takes an inflation reduction act in the us and high energy prices to put our industrial competitiveness higher on the agenda of this house. for the epp, this should be a permanent priority, but unfortunately our calls to discuss it have often landed on deaf ears. so i’m happy we’re discussing it today. and let me be clear: for us, this is not about protecting the old or even the status quo. it’s about ensuring that the green and digital transitions can actually take place. the unfair competition that we face from china, from the us and others goes to the heart of the green deal. if the green deal does not deliver sufficient and good—quality jobs in europe, it will not succeed and therefore it’s time to act. we should not sit here and take it just because some of the threats come from our american friends. but we should be smart and measured in our response, and therefore the epp looks forward to the commission’s proposals, which we hope will be targeted, steering for the highest potential impact, not just the highest amount. we want them to be flexible when it comes to using existing funds, but also – and thank you for mentioning them – when it comes to speeding up planning procedures. and thirdly – that’s our responsibility in this european house – we want them to be a solution for all, not for the lucky few.
madam president, commissioner, minister, increasing the competitiveness of european industry, quality jobs, trade, all these things cannot be done unless we all accept that the period of naivety in the industrial policy of the european union is over. what do we need? we need to compete with the big players in this global market, the united states, china. how can we compete with them? by giving more subsidies? we can't, but we can make a welfare system that's fast, that's efficient, and that's not business as usual. a system in which permits for construction and for an investment to be operational can be issued in a timely manner. these are the things that the european union needs today, because otherwise we will find ourselves closing down more capacity in both steel and aluminium, and in the chemical industry and the fertiliser industry, because we are not able to give this support that is needed at the right time and we cannot do this unless we also come with compensation for electricity prices. we cannot talk about competitiveness when eight of the world's top ten gas prices are in the european union and without a compensation mechanism we will not have a competitive european industry, so please, commissioner, be strong, decisive and take the measures that need to be taken now, before it is too late.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, mr commissioner, europe is facing a turning point. after years of growth success based on free trade, we are seeing two of the world’s largest economies setting out a vision based on subsidies by national acts. so which way do we go? do we follow or do we stick to the status quo? clearly we need to find a third way, european way. we need a united european solution which protects the single market while supporting critical sectors and european supply chains. europe cannot afford a national subsidies race both outside but also within europe itself. we must act together to protect our businesses and to protect european jobs, and we must do so quickly. this is why europe will act. the key, however, is that we must act in a way that supports both an open europe based on open trade with like—minded nations, and that supports our businesses in these times of crisis and transformation. temporarily, this might include european financial support. however, we must do even more. we want items made in europe, but we want them to be made here because the business environment, our educated workers and our regulations make businesses want to grow here. we do not want business to take subsidies and once subsidies end to leave. therefore renew europe believes we need european support for critical european sectors which support our companies in all member states equally, which prevents the fragmentation of the single market. but any new european strategy must go beyond money alone. europe will and must act to defend growth and jobs in europe. but let’s get this right: millions of europeans are counting on us.
the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the middle east, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take action to deal with this situation. hundreds of billions of dollars in subsidies to the american green technology companies. greening our industry requires investment. but we should not seek trade wars through protectionism ourselves. simply relaxing our state aid rules is a bad idea, because then the big countries with the deepest pockets, such as germany, win out. that is what divides our union, at a time when we need european solidarity most. we, the greens, are calling for a permanent solidarity fund, along the lines of the corona recovery fund. i am very pleased that the commission - commissioner breton - now also recognises that these additional resources will be really needed. we need to invest at least 1% of european gdp every year to meet our climate goals. we need a coherent plan for the future of our industry to invest those resources in specific sectors. i am thinking in particular of the circular economy, because it offers enormous potential for local, sustainable and quality jobs for europeans. at the same time, it's an opportunity to reduce our dependence on countries like china when it comes to rare, critical resources. that's an opportunity we can't afford to pass up.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been wrong about everything. this is in essence the admission that charles michel makes of europe's record, an admission that he was eventually forced to admit in his column published in the newspaper politico on 15 january. after three decades of deindustrialisation, the president of the european council can no longer deny the total economic failure and the impasse into which the european union is leading us. in the face of the aggressive industrial policy of china and the united states, brussels is realizing that all these mountains of regulations, lists of promises and multiple declarations of intent have been useless. the massive plan to support american companies and the state aid of the chinese government to their industries are in contrast to the liquidation of our industrial jewels imposed by the european union, as was the case with pechiney or arcelor. protectionism, industrial voluntarism, defence of our big groups, this was what we should have done from the beginning. this is what we in the national assembly have been planning to do for a long time.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 040 - c4-0179/97). it is time, because our european economy is bleeding, both from external factors and from policy failures. the much-vaunted brussels effect of our standards is waning, the attractiveness of our single market is failing and autocratic regimes are - unfortunately - on the rise. the reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are losing prosperity, jobs and international clout. and what does the commissioner do about it? more regulation, more spending, more government support. more uncovered european expenditure, transfers and taxes. even more centrally managed economy with a sovereign wealth fund. and a move towards protectionism with a wanton 'buy european act', in contravention of wto rules. we need to turn the rudder! with the completion of the single market. with better enforcement that actually addresses protectionism. with diversification of our supply lines. with new trade agreements urgently needed. with a shift in the budget to research, innovation and development. with limited and temporary state aid, targeting market failure and innovation, respecting a level playing field. more room for our industry to experiment. and finally, ladies and gentlemen, faster licensing procedures, not just for renewable energy, but for all investments.
president. - we are in danger of a new deindustrialization in europe. the risk is now being exacerbated by the policy of the united states, which is trying to relocate european industry through all kinds of subsidies, and to which it is adding telephone calls to say: 'please come and invest with us and no longer in europe'. so we are in a crisis and the united states is trying to push us further into it. the united states has no friends or allies, it has only interests. and if we want to build an autonomous europe, we would do well not to be so naive and so complacent towards the united states. so, what will be the european response? for the moment, i see mainly the old recipes that have failed and the tax benefits and subsidies for the multinationals in the hope that they will be kind to us and what will remain of the workers. this model is a failure. we need a change of public policy to really take back and control the reins of industrial policy in europe. we are thinking of renationalising certain sectors and forcing companies to intervene, to invest in renewable energy.
madam president, the far right is striking again. an attempted coup d'état in germany; a racist attack on representatives of the kurdish community in france and racist violence against football supporters; a soldier robs an arms depot and leads the police on a manhunt for several weeks in belgium. attacks on migrants across europe. these are all manifestations of far-right terrorism which are multiplying in europe and which undermine our values, our democracies, the lives and security of our fellow citizens. the alarms have been rising for several years about these threats, but the priority and attention have long been elsewhere, allowing the deployment of violent networks of the extreme right, with the complicity of part of the political world. the one who represents this extremist ideology here, on the benches of our assemblies, but also the one who collaborates with the extreme right in governmental alliances. this is the case for sweden, which currently holds the presidency of the council of the european union. this is also the case for more than 100 members of this house who have given their support to the far-right candidate for vice-president of this parliament. the fight against the far right begins here and now.
mr president, it is a punishment! the socialists are scheduling a debate on right-wing terrorism here in a cramped attempt to divert attention from qatargate, where a trio of socialists were caught up in corruption and suitcases full of qatari dollars. the belgian state security is now suddenly warning of the extreme right. and in the netherlands, the liberal minister kaag recently said that 'right-wing extremists and conspiracy populists threaten democracy'. in parentheses: the same day it emerged that the head of security for the islamic state, suspected of war crimes in syria, was walking around the netherlands. so much for kaag's complaint. but tell me, socialists, how many right-wing attacks have been committed in belgium or the netherlands in recent years? where was that? how many people died there? i'll tell you what. nothing, nothing, nothing. i was just... no missile has been fired from the right. that is the privilege of you young immigrants who, time and again, set fire to our cities after a football match or on new year's eve. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. it 's transparent . scare people away from the danger of the right wing while at the same time distracting attention from your own corruption.
madam president, dear colleagues, with this debate the european parliament once again is making a fool of itself. month after month, the left is trying to prove that the biggest threat to europe is the extreme right. well, do you seriously believe that the laughable attempt of a bunch of german cooks and veterans poses the biggest security threat to europe today? you can’t be serious about that. in early december, a migrant stabbed two schoolgirls in a small town in germany. one of the girls died, and this is just the tip of the iceberg. crimes committed by migrants are on the rise across europe, from france to germany, from belgium to sweden. let’s talk about the attacks on firefighters, the ambulance and police by migrants during the new year’s eve celebrations in big cities in germany. what about cologne in 2015 where thousands of women were harassed sexually and robbed by migrants? let’s recall the violent street riots in paris and brussels during the world cup. let us say it out loud: illegal migration and its consequences, that’s the real security problem and threat to europeans today.
madam president, madam commissioner, we know from our history that the far right represents millions of deaths in our european territory, but so does communism. let's face it, the far left and the far right have both done havoc. it is the bankruptcy of our societies and the ruin of individual liberties. there is a distinction between the extreme right and the extreme left, to help the debate a little bit: it is racism and it is not nothing. both are supported, and largely, by interference from china or russia, for example. the committee on the environment will make a whole series of proposals to protect us, to protect our democracy, to fight against false information, cybercrime and of course other european coordination actions, especially in the field of education for the youngest. a recent report by the belgian state security shows that the rise in extremes among 14-15-year-olds is extremely worrying. every time it is the same, it is an attack on our democracy, on the values we have defended for more than 70 years now, all of us together at european level. so yes, we have to ask ourselves questions, beyond the police aspect, of course, of justice, of the absolute fight against all forms of extremism and i distinguished the extreme right from the extreme left. beyond that, we must find the sources that allow some to expand their electoral space. we see this in particular through different votes: the more a citizen feels that he is not considered by europe, by his country, the further away from a hospital, from the reality of a parliamentarian, from an administration, the less opportunities he has to flourish, and the more he will actually tend to vote for extreme parties. social distress is the breeding ground for extremes, ladies and gentlemen. it is up to us at european level to provide economic and social solutions in the field of energy for every european citizen and to ensure that europe is an opportunity for everyone and for everyone across our territories, everywhere in europe.
mr president, seán binder, sarah mardini, cédric herrou, walid c, anouk van gestel, miriam berg and so many others have been the subject of trials that have changed their lives forever. let us pay tribute to them today, because no, it is not normal to be persecuted for showing solidarity and humanity. no, it is not normal to be prosecuted for sheltering or saving migrants from certain drowning, especially in the mediterranean, for fulfilling missions that our governments should take care of themselves and that would not be necessary with a safe, legal, humane migration policy. across the union, acts of solidarity are criminalised in breach of international law and the values enshrined in our treaties. saving lives is a civilization issue. these heroes and heroines are the pride of our continent. my questions are simple: when will our governments and the european commission ensure the protection of those who ensure that our values and human rights are respected? when will the commission, the guardian of the treaties, finally start infringement proceedings against member states that abuse criminal law provisions to criminalise humanitarian workers and committed citizens?
so mr sofo, would you agree with either the proposal from the s&d group or the green group?
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot accept these requests for amendments and we are concerned that the only concern of these political groups is to remove the word 'left' from this title, which leaves us concerned about the possible complicity of certain political forces. i remember that countless hours were lost in this house in pointless debates about alleged risks to democracy from the rise of right-wing political movements, and you were very careful to specify the name 'right' in these debates, but, by chance, now that it is clear that the real danger to our democracy is found in movements which are close to areas which are not at all right-wing but are more likely to be left-wing, what is your objective? to try to hide this small but very important truth. so we will not accept this specific amendment and this amendment.
we will therefore vote on the ecr request. (parliament rejected the request)we will now vote on the s&d group’s alternative proposal. (parliament rejected the alternative proposal)we will now vote on the green group’s alternative proposal. (parliament rejected the alternative proposal) wednesday’s agenda therefore remains unchanged. we move to thursday – tomorrow. the ecr group has requested that the council and commission give statements on ‘the situation of the former president of georgia mikheil saakashvili’. these would be added as the second item in the morning. i understand this could go with one round of political group speakers and the start of the sitting would be brought forward to 8:30. the debate would then be wound up with a resolution to be voted at the next part-session. i give the floor to anna fotyga to move the request on behalf of the ecr group.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, colleagues, all of us were able to see videos and photos of the third president of georgia, mikheil saakashvili, testifying remotely to the court of tbilisi. we were able to see the very shaky, fragile condition of his health. in many documents, we have voiced our concern and appealed for his humanitarian release from prison enabling him to be cured abroad in proper conditions. nowadays, his health state was confirmed in court by a world—renowned neurologist, showing, among other things, multiple disorders as well as the wrong administration of medicines to the prisoner. i kindly ask you to accept our request.
we will put to the vote the request to have a resolution to wind up the debate. (parliament agreed to the request)the debate will therefore be wound up with a resolution at the next part—session. the agenda is adopted and the order of business is thus established.
the next item is the council and commission statements on the preparation of the special european council meeting of february, in particular the need to develop sustainable solutions in the area of asylum and migration (2023/2508(rsp)). dear colleagues, next week’s special european council will be an important moment for us to discuss our economy and migration. let us remember the open and global approach that has always been the european way. we need to bring back growth and focus on european competitiveness. we have always embarked and had an ambitious roadmap on our eu rules on migration and asylum, and this is what we are working on right now. in parliament we expect the leaders to commit to completing the migration and asylum pact with us before the next elections, because europe has what it takes if we act together. i’ll give the floor – to open the debate for the council – to the minister for eu affairs, jessika roswall.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, madam president of the commission, commissioners, on 9 february leaders will convene for a special meeting in the european council, focusing on ukraine, the economic agenda and migration. the meeting will start with the usual exchange with the president of the european parliament. leaders will discuss the situation in ukraine, assembling less than a week after the eu-ukraine summit on 3 february. they will discuss the latest developments on the ground and take stock of the eu support to ukraine and its people. leaders are also expected to consider further ways to increase pressure on russia and to touch upon the important issues of accountability and upon frozen assets. the date 24 february, two weeks after the special european council, will mark the tragic anniversary of the start of the russian war. the european council is expected to reaffirm the eu’s resolute determination to support ukraine and the ukrainian people for as long as it takes. i know the parliament is steadfast in its support to ukraine, and i would like to thank you all for this. regarding the economic agenda, leaders will discuss how the eu can tackle challenges facing europe’s economic, industrial and technological base in the short term. in doing so, they will build on today’s contribution by the commission on a green deal industrial plan. among other things, leaders are expected to discuss possible temporary adjustments on state aid policy and how to streamline procedures while preserving the integrity of the single market. by the time of the meeting, we will probably have a deeper understanding of the challenges for the european industry, as the commission is expected to prepare an analysis. but it is necessary to look at other policy tools too. much can be achieved by improving the business environment and by cutting red tape. we also need a fully—developed and integrated european capital market and an ambitious, robust and sustainable trade agenda. in the long term, it is crucial for the eu to realise the full potential of the single market as it celebrates 30 years. at the march european council, leaders will discuss competitiveness and increased productivity in the longer term. this is essential for the eu to remain an attractive place to invest, for our prosperity and for our role on the world stage. migration will be another major topic at this meeting. leaders are expected to discuss ways in which the eu can intensify its joint actions, such as strengthening control of the eu’s external borders, including through frontex support for member states’ actions and the use of it tools, working with countries of origin and transit along all routes on partnerships to avoid further death and counter illegal migration, and also issues of return and readmission, alignment with the eu visa policy and the fight against trafficking and smuggling, as well as the unacceptable use of migration for political purposes and, finally, calling upon the co—legislators to continue work on the migration pact as foreseen in the joint roadmap on migration and asylum. thank you very much for your attention. i am looking forward to hearing your views.
president of the commission. – madam president, dear roberta, madam minister, honourable members. last year, frontex reported 330 000 irregular border crossings. this is a 64% increase compared to the year before and the highest figure since 2016. in parallel, there were 924 000 asylum applications across the european union. there are, without any doubt, increasing pressures at our external borders, and it is our duty to make sure that europe continues to be a space for protection for those who need it. however, the asylum and reception systems across member states are under considerable strain, and the fact is that the majority of those who apply for asylum are not in need of protection, but return rates are at a low of 22% and there is an increasing number of secondary movement. honourable members, migration is a european challenge which must be met with a european response. this might sound like common sense, but it took us almost 10 years to acknowledge this reality. at the european council next week, i will propose to the heads of state and government two separate work strands. the legislative process is one and the operational actions we can take already now is the second. on the legislative process, the best response we can give is to advance the new pact on migration and asylum. since the commission presented its proposals, we’ve seen quite some good progress. we have agreed on the eu blue card to attract highly skilled personnel. we have established a new eu asylum agency. in december, a political agreement was reached on three important legislative proposals. trilogues started to upgrade our biometric database, the eurodac, and we hope for trilogues to start soon on screening. so we must keep up the good pace, and here the role of this house is key. i’m glad that on your initiative, madam president, dear roberta, parliament and the council agreed on a roadmap to conclude all the legislative work before march next year, and you can count on the full support of the commission to achieve that. i know that vice—president margaritis schinas and commissioner ylva johansson are working tirelessly on that. the second work strand is immediate action. this is what the european council will focus on. over time, we have developed a migration and border management toolbox. we have stronger agencies and we are better coordinated. we have proven to be able to respond to sudden demands if we work together. take the instrumentalisation of migrants by belarus, or the sudden rise of irregular migration in the western balkans, or our response to russia’s brutal aggression against ukraine: a whole continent has mobilised for our ukrainian friends. volunteers rushed to the borders, families opened their homes and not only their homes, but also their hearts. and at the institutional level, we immediately activated temporary protection for ukrainians. we know that we can address increasing challenges if we take action together and now we can do this again. here i want to outline four points of action where we can make a real difference on the ground. the first is we have a shared interest in strong external borders. the most pressing issues right now are at the land border between bulgaria and türkiye. we can strengthen the border with management capabilities. we can also provide infrastructure and equipment like drones and radar and other means of surveillance, as we have done in the last years, for example, in romania, we’ve done it in spain and greece and in poland, and we can increase the presence of frontex. on the other hand, we must urgently address the situation in the central mediterranean. the migratory pressure has increased significantly – and all too often tragically – at the expense of human life. we need to support our member states as well as our north african partners in coordinating their search—and—rescue capacities. and we will continue supporting unhcr and iom on the ground to help build capacities for asylum, reception and return. at the same time, we will continue supporting member states to address challenges along the western and eastern mediterranean routes. honourable members, behind all this there are criminal networks. they are organising ruthlessly – the shabby life vests, the boats, they are robbing the migrants, they are trading in human life. we have to intensify our fight against those smugglers. and we will launch a new anti—smuggling partnership with key third countries. this will bring together prosecutors and law enforcement authorities supported by europol and supported by eurojust. together, we have to stop this business of exploitation. my second point is focusing on faster and dignified returns. every year there are around 300 000 return decisions taken by member states, but only around 70 000 people are actually returned. we have to get better. some of the shortcomings we can act on now. for instance, a return decision that is taken in one member state should be valid in all member states. so if a person with a return decision issued by italy is found in france, that person can be directly returned to his country of origin. this will become possible now with the schengen information system that enters into force, into operation in march. and we want member states to make use of this possibility. thirdly, we have to address secondary movements while ensuring effective solidarity. solidarity and responsibility are two sides of the same coin. and therefore these two issues can only be addressed together. let me give you some figures and some elements that are important for us. we must work together to reduce the incentives for secondary movements. it is very good that we have the dublin roadmap now since december in place, but member states of course need to implement it now. and at the same time, if we look at the voluntary solidarity mechanism agreed last summer, this should not only be on paper. it needs to deliver. until today, there are only 8 000 pledges for relocation and just round about 400 have actually been transferred. so european solidarity must and can be stronger than that. and we will need to see to this with a permanent solidarity mechanism in the new pact on migration and asylum. last but definitely not least, there is the external dimension. we need to engage more closely with key partners. migration management must be built in as one important aspect of the european union’s relations with partners. overall, our relations need to reflect a strategic engagement in a spirit of cooperation. we should recognise the interests of our partners and cooperate with them by supporting education, by creating new businesses, business opportunities, by fostering job creation. that same spirit of cooperation should help us to reduce irregular departures and step up returns. talent partnerships, visa policy, trade and investment play an important role here, as well as opportunities for safe and legal pathways as part of our overall comprehensive approach to migration management. it is a fair balance that we need to find. honourable members, migration is very complex. it’s a matter of understanding each other’s challenges and a matter of working together. this is what we will present to the european council on 9 february. on a completely different sheet of paper, let me ask you for your kind understanding that i have to leave the plenary right now because i am, together with the college of commissioners, now on my way on a mission to ukraine where we want to go together as a college of commissioners.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear minister, dear president of commission, good luck in kyiv and send good signals to our friends there. full support. wir können zunächst stolz sein als europäer, wenn wir uns die großen krisen der letzten jahre vergegenwärtigen – den jugoslawienkrieg zum beispiel: 800 000 flüchtlinge willkommen geheißen, den syrienkrieg: über eine million menschen auf europäischem grund und boden willkommen geheißen, und jetzt bei der ukraine: fast acht millionen menschen auf der flucht. wir haben in den letzten jahren gezeigt: wann immer große krisen sind, hat europa ein weites herz und will helfen. das asylrecht ist eine der großen errungenschaften der europäischen union, auf die wir stolz sind. es ist die basis der heutigen diskussion. wir haben auch große erfolge in der europäischen dimension. ich möchte ausdrücklich frontex danken, den beamten danken, die jeden tag einen guten dienst machen, leben retten und versuchen, unser recht an der außengrenze durchzusetzen. das herz ist weit, aber die möglichkeiten sind begrenzt, haben andere politiker formuliert. im letzten jahr gab es 60 prozent mehr illegale grenzübertritte, die aufnahmekapazitäten hier in belgien beispielsweise sind voll. bürger verlieren das vertrauen, ob unser system noch funktioniert. vor der herausforderung stehen wir. ich möchte heute vier punkte einbringen, die über das hinausgehen, was ursula von der leyen bereits beschrieben hat. zum ersten: wir müssen die außengrenze europas sichern, wir müssen recht an der außengrenze durchsetzen. dafür sind technische maßnahmen notwendig. aber ich sage ausdrücklich auch für die evp: auch zäune sind im ausnahmefall kein tabu. ich war überrascht, als die kommissarin johansson sich öffentlich positioniert und gesagt hat: zäune sind nicht nötig, um außengrenzen zu sichern. ich sage: an allen landgrenzen, die wir haben, sind zäune gebaut worden. in spanien, ceuta und melilla, in griechenland, in bulgarien – überall sind zäune gebaut worden! ich glaube, jeder, der heute verantwortung trägt, weiß, dass das im ausnahmefall leider gottes auch möglich sein muss, auch von der kommission finanziert werden muss. als zweites müssen wir uns um die ngo-boote im mittelmeer kümmern. leben retten ist dort das zentrale prinzip, und jedes zivilgesellschaftliche engagement ist willkommen im mittelmeer. wenn es dort menschen gibt, die helfen, dann ist das richtig, dann ist das gut und es ist willkommen. aber wir brauchen regeln, wie gearbeitet wird im mittelmeer. wir brauchen ein gemeinsames verständnis von allen, die dort im mittelmeer tätig sind. deshalb fordern wir einen verhaltenskodex, wie wir im mittelmeer mit diesen maßnahmen umgehen. beispielsweise müssen nicht alle aufgegriffenen migranten dann auch in italien an land gebracht werden. auch andere länder können verantwortung übernehmen, leben retten, gemeinsam verantwortung tragen. das dritte, was zu sagen ist, ist die rückführung. 340 000 ausreisepflichtige menschen in der europäischen union alleine letztes jahr, nach einem ordentlichen und rechtlichen verfahren, und nur 40 000 sind ausgereist. 300 000, die eigentlich ausreisen müssen, sind nach wie vor hier. die bürger fragen zu recht: kann der staat das recht durchsetzen, das er selbst beschließt? deswegen müssen wir uns darum kümmern, dass wir mit drittstaaten rückführungsabkommen verhandeln, um diese rückführung möglich zu machen. da muss ich leider schon sagen, dass es auf europäischer ebene in diesem mandat gerade mal gelungen ist, ein einziges flüchtlingsabkommen abzuschließen – und überraschenderweise haben wir es mit belarus abgeschlossen. das ist ein sehr überzeugender fall, wo wir rückführen könnten, aber natürlich alle nicht rückführen wollen. deshalb brauchen wir mehr engagement mit den behandelnden drittstaaten, solche rückführungsabkommen durchzuführen. das vierte: wir brauchen auch legale wege in die europäische union, zweifellos. beispielsweise hat kanada in syrien, in den dortigen lagern für bürgerkriegsflüchtlinge, büros eröffnet, wo sie menschen einen legalen weg nach kanada anbieten – kontingentiert, nach festen kriterien. das hat kanada gemacht. warum macht das europa nicht? warum sind wir nicht in ägypten, in tunesien mit dortigen büros tätig, um menschen einen legalen weg anzubieten? warum machen wir das nicht? es war eine sozialdemokratische regierung in dänemark, die den vorschlag zum ersten mal eingebracht hat, auch außerhalb der europäischen union diese lager aufzubauen. wir müssen legale wege finden, um menschen eine sichere perspektive nach europa zu geben. es ist gut, dass der sondergipfel stattfindet, es ist gut, dass die staats- und regierungschefs sich diesem großen thema wieder zuwenden. aber nach sieben jahren debatte seit der letzten großen flüchtlingskrise sind der worte genug gewechselt. jetzt brauchen wir taten. es ist führung notwendig. europa hilft, aber europa muss auch recht durchsetzen.
the s&d group is therefore calling for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. approximately ninety million refugees and internally displaced persons have been forcibly displaced from their homes. they are fleeing war, terrorism or persecution. and many of those people risk their lives by land and sea on their way to europe. our responsibility is to welcome them so they can have a life of dignity. the next european council cannot be an empty summit. the european union's commitment to conclude the new pact on migration and asylum before the end of the current legislature should be clear from 10 february. i would like to express the socialist group's full willingness to reach an agreement which includes a binding solidarity mechanism, in which each member state assumes its share of responsibility. the commission's successive plans to strengthen the european union's action after each tragedy are not new and cannot solve the mediterranean tragedy by themselves. the commission is of course obliged to recommend better coordination between member states, but it is worrying that it is unable to take concrete measures to deal with the management of ngo rescue boats, for example. there is no doubt that we must coordinate our efforts to combat trafficking in human beings and offer our support to the countries of origin and transit. but we must also give international protection to asylum seekers, foster the integration of refugees and ensure legal pathways for immigration, including education, employment and humanitarian visas. the commission and the council cannot focus exclusively on return. of course those who have been expelled and expelled from their country have the right to return to their land. but the return requires the end of wars, the defeat of terrorism, the birth of inclusive societies. the criminalisation of ngos and the building of walls promoted by the right and the far right can never erase the most visible trace of our reality. the societies of today and tomorrow are and will always be diverse. cultural and religious diversity is an unalterable reality, a reality which can and must be compatible with respect for the values of the host countries. we cannot change the diversity of our societies, but we can change the way we manage migration flows. we must lose our fear of talking about immigration as a solution to the demographic imbalance and the lack of labour in europe. the european commission itself reminds us that, while 70% of the european population is currently of working age, by 2070 the percentage will have fallen to 54%. the netherlands, belgium and the czech republic have almost 5% of unfilled jobs. germany, 4.5%. france and italy, 2.5%. spain, 0.8% several member states have already begun to legislate to attract immigrants. we cannot lose sight of that when we approach our decisions. ladies and gentlemen, shared responsibility is the only beacon that will illuminate the solutions to a challenge that affects us all and that no one can solve individually. we are obliged to understand each other between those who aspire to a europe of strength and those who defend a europe of solidarity. it is difficult, after hearing mr weber's words about fences and walls, to understand that an agreement is necessary. it's very difficult. even the president of the commission, mrs von der leyen, has not mentioned it. let's work with solidarity in mind. we will work with european values in mind. we will work with the horizon in mind, with responsibility, with particular determination and generosity, and with the horizon in mind.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner, minister, colleagues, ahead of the euco meeting next week, we are facing a crucial moment for the future of our economy and our competitiveness. but let me be clear, it is not with senseless deregulation, dismantling workers’ rights or environmental standards, or this so-called moratorium on regulation that we can make the european union strong and competitive for the 21st century. our competitiveness will depend on how well we can lead the green transformation globally, supporting green industries, being the first when it comes to climate—friendly and environmentally—friendly technologies. yes, for that we will actually need green and sustainable regulation to give planning security to our companies and, yes, for setting the scene globally to move ahead with the green transformation. indeed, we will need money for that. we will not need random investment, but we will need very targeted green investment in order to make this possible. i’ve read the letter that the commission president sent to the member states on migration and let me be honest, to me, it sounded – in a very technocratic and depoliticised language – like a plan to create a fortress europe. not once was there was a mention of human rights, not once there was a mention of the suffering of those who are trying to find shelter in the european union, and not once there was a mention of international law – international law that binds the european union when it comes to asylum. but also, in the framing, we are talking about migration here – and migration is not only about asylum and returns. this whole initiative can only work if we look at migration in its entirety. i negotiated recently a coalition agreement between the conservative party and the greens in north rhine-westphalia, and i can tell you what the number one concern of the smes, of the care homes and the citizens was: it was the question of how we can attract trained workers, trained labour in order to fit the shortages in our labour market. if we are not looking at this, if we are not looking at what our citizens need, then we are falling short of what we actually need to address. don’t get me wrong. we all want orderly border management. we want legal provisions to be applied, but orderly border management, mr weber, also applies to border guards and we have seen in the past that there were illegal pushbacks. we have seen that this has been covered up. we have seen that there was no punishment for this. we have seen that there was no accountability. this, colleagues, is definitely unacceptable. the european union received the nobel peace prize not for building walls, not for encircling this continent in fences, not for pushing back boats of people who are looking for shelter. we received the nobel peace prize because this union stands for a promise, and, for me, the responsibility and the duty that we have learned from the horrors of the past – from nationalist devastations, but also from the suffering that this continent has brought to the world; a promise that we will be a beacon of human rights and of shared values. this, commission president, does not end at how we behave at our external borders.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the council is finally taking up a fundamental matter, a fundamental practice that the european union and the european institutions have been discussing for years without being able to take decisive action. we have high hopes in the words we have heard again today, both from the swedish presidency, which in these first weeks has spoken very clearly about its objectives, and from commission president von der leyen, who finally seems to have put the spotlight on the problem and the real solutions we must put in place to solve the problem of immigration. to talk exclusively about redistribution and open doors, as we have done in recent years, means that we do not want to solve the problem because redistribution here, with these numbers, is not wanted by anyone: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so to continue today to talk about redistribution and responsibility without reducing numbers is not solving the problem. the points have also been outlined by those who have gone before me, the focus must be on the external borders and the protection of our external borders; this is what civilised states do, this is what developed states do, this is what rule of law states do, and i think the european union should be part of this group. i share the proposal that has been made many times in the past by my country and my party: we need to process asylum applications outside the european union, because the percentage of applications that are accepted is very low and the rest is left to the countries that share an external border with the european union. we can do this because we give a lot of funding to a lot of third countries at our external borders and i think that when we make agreements to distribute this money we can also ask for facilities to process applications, where the institutions of the european union take on the task of monitoring the human rights of people who are transiting. the last key point: the ngos. we cannot, a public authority cannot outsource the control of its external borders to private organisations and in this, very often, we have detected potential illegal profiles. this is what we have to do: reduce departures. only by reducing departures will we reduce the number of deaths at sea and have a more civilised european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, may the european council be an opportunity to reiterate that in europe we do not need walls, barbed wire and funding to erect new physical barriers at the external and internal borders. we need solidarity and a fair sharing of responsibility, as provided for in article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in order to alleviate the disproportionate burden on the frontline states, which are under the greatest pressure, a mandatory solidarity mechanism based on relocations between all the member states of the european union cannot be dispensed with. cooperation with countries of origin and transit and legal pathways to the european union remain necessary to combat the smuggling of migrants and trafficking in human beings, to protect lives and to protect fundamental rights. in this context, agreements on return and reintegration and on improving employment opportunities in third countries need to be strengthened. two years after the presentation of the new pact on migration and asylum and some seven years after previous proposals to reform the common european asylum system, the european union is wasting no more time in re-thinking how to manage migration flows.
mr president, council and commissioners, the truth is that the issue of migration is testing our democratic system and our system of fundamental rights, but the epp group, my fellow greens and s&d members, does not receive lessons on fundamental rights from anyone, nor on the dignified treatment of people, because our christian roots are clear and present in all our policies. the problem here is how do you best protect the human rights of those who are vulnerable, and are truly vulnerable, and not those who are often trying to enter illegally and irregularly. we, if we have stronger borders, over which we have real control, real dominion, will be in a much better position to respect the human rights of the most vulnerable, to organise legal migration for the jobs we need here, given our declining population, and we will also be in a better position to help third countries develop and have a smaller migration flow. that is a humane policy, that is a policy which respects fundamental rights.
mr president, the debate on migration at the next council summit is most necessary and not a day too soon, because after seven years of complete stagnation on the asylum and migration package in the council, it’s time for action. seven years sur place, no summit on massive illegal pushbacks, on thousands of deaths as a result. no summit on dramatic reception conditions in moria, calais, ter apel, brussels. no summit when local communities became overburdened as national governments are cutting budgets for reception capacity or are busy blaming migrants for the failure of their own policies. government leaders have indeed agreed a very timid, voluntary relocation mechanism. but as president von der leyen pointed out, so far it has resulted in no fewer than 8 000 pledges and 400 actual relocations – hardly impressive. we need effective and credible policies, but always in line with our values. i hear colleague weber say ‘yeah, human rights, sure, but ...’. i say ‘human rights’. full stop. no buts. as to walls, colleagues, many have been built throughout history. none of them were successful. none. it’s a distraction and not a solution as ms bischoff also said. council and parliament are currently working in a spirit of good cooperation following the joint roadmap towards the common goal of adopting the entire asylum and migration package by 2024 at the latest. and i therefore call on the government leaders to not disrupt or derail the process, but to throw their weight behind the roadmap.
mr president, we have had to tear down many walls, both physical and psychological, to make the union that europe is today. it is therefore regrettable that some member states and some political families are again insisting upon building new walls and fences and financing them with eu money to seal off fortress europe. they say walls will better help stop migration. but what they will stop is our european values. we know how quickly they fade away in outrageous episodes like the one at the melilla wall, on the beaches of lesbos and in so many other places. we need safe and legal pathways for migrants, amongst other reasons to ensure that we tackle the demographic and labour market challenges that we face. we need to guarantee the right to asylum for those who need shelter so they are not shamefully piled up in refugee camps or illegally pushed back or drowned in the mediterranean sea. the far right and a complacent reaction to them must not dictate the fundamentals of our common migration and asylum policy.
mr president, tomorrow we shall vote on the waiver of the immunity of my colleague, nadine morano, who is being prosecuted in her own country, france, for daring to say that rescuing illegal migrants in the mediterranean and then bringing them to european soil is tantamount to complicity in human smuggling. i agree with her and go even further. if we allow this, we are not only complicit, we are human trafficking ourselves. european lifeboats ferrying illegal migrants to the eu are the extension of the smugglers' shallow boats. last year, almost a hundred thousand asylum seekers entered the eu. that's half as many as in 2021. a majority cannot claim international protection. these are the literal words of commissioner johansson himself. this situation is not only untenable, it is inhumane. johansson also said that our duty to save people must not be twisted. - that's right. we rescue them and then bring them back from where they left, and not to the eu. this is how we tackle illegal immigration at its source: discourage illegal migrants and prevent human trafficking. that's where it starts.
mr president, mr commissioner, and members of the house of representatives, the migratory pressure on the union's external borders is aggressive and growing at an alarming rate. violent demonstrations against border guards are a regular occurrence along the western balkans migration route. the only solution is to protect the union's external borders and stop illegal migration. that is why proposals that still do not stop but only manage illegal immigration are harmful. the solidarity-based distribution system will continue to act as an incentive for the routes of hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants and human trafficking gangs. the eu's asylum system has clearly failed. member states themselves act to curb illegal migration. despite the sacrifices made by hungary to protect our common external borders, it has only been subjected to legal proceedings and attacks from brussels. the european commission should effectively reimburse the costs of border control measures in hungary, effectively supporting member states that protect their external borders for the efforts they make to ensure the security of the union as a whole.
mr president, 70% of europeans are concerned about migration, and rightly so: 330 000 people illegally crossed our borders last year. this is the highest number since 2016 and we are sleepwalking into a new crisis – literally, because our dutch prime minister, mark rutte, admitted last week that he dozed off on migration. it’s unacceptable. colleague azmani, on behalf of the liberals, referred to cinderella, while the dutch prime minister really was more like sleeping beauty. european citizens deserve leaders that are awake and that take their concerns seriously. and the upcoming summit is the opportunity to actually show this, to show the commitment, the commitment we need for real solutions. and we do not have the luxury to dismiss practical solutions just like that. and that is my question also to the european commission. president von der leyen today here underlined the importance to strengthen our external borders and she mentioned the turkish-bulgarian border as a priority, but when bulgaria then asks the european union for help to protect that border, to have permanent infrastructure on that border, they hear from commissioner johansson that they cannot expect a single euro cent from the european budget. is that solidarity? is that the european response that the commission is talking about? i think the bulgarians and all european citizens deserve an answer to that question.
mr president, madam minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if we really want to adopt sustainable solutions at this summit, we must change the paradigm. dear manfred, we must change the paradigm. we must understand that the solution to the migration challenge cannot be focused solely on trying to contain irregular migration. we must develop legal migration channels to attract the labour that europe needs, and humanitarian channels to protect people fleeing war and poverty. only then can we take the control away from the mafias and stop human trafficking, so that a common immigration policy based on the principles of respect for human dignity and solidarity can finally be put in place, in cooperation with third countries. and finally, madam minister, i understand that sweden may be far from the mediterranean and the atlantic. we are, however, asking the presidency to push for the creation of a common maritime rescue mechanism, because with the arrival of spring thousands of people will be risking their lives trying to reach our shores.
mr president, mr commissioner dear johannes hahn , madam minister dear jessika roswall , the only solution to the migration challenge is the new european pact on migration and asylum. no, it's not the walls, mr. weber. no, my dear epp colleagues, nor are they the centres for examining asylum applications located far from european territories. that would be unworthy of the humanistic values that we have. you will not lay the foundations for a much-needed european agreement by making a pact with the far right. it is our responsibility to unite our pro-european and moderate forces for a genuine european pact on migration and asylum, for a responsible europe that controls its borders and respects human rights, for a europe of solidarity that stands shoulder to shoulder with the most exposed states - i am thinking in particular of spain, italy, greece, malta and cyprus - for a europe that ensures effective asylum procedures that respect human rights.
president, ladies and gentlemen, we are literally being flooded by unwanted migration. this is not a natural phenomenon that happens to us, but the result of deliberate political choices. they refuse to secure europe's external borders and effectively return illegals. asylum is being misused as a migration channel, creating insecurity, undermining asylum for genuine refugees and perpetuating the business model of human trafficking. that is unsustainable, unsustainable and completely immoral. we can and must make other political choices. asylum does not mean residence. by definition, shelter must be in the region of origin. countries that don't take back their illegals, we should punish with economic sanctions, and we should stop all development aid. our people don't want more, but they want less migration.
in writing. – it’s been eight years since the negotiations started to find a common solution on migration. the 27 heads of state or government are meeting again and we’re still at the starting point because, rather than thinking of a common european solution, all are simply interested in their own borders, leading to a crisis for those at the periphery and a humanitarian crisis at sea. on one hand, the fight to dismantle smugglers’ business models is stuck, while on the other member states do not want arrivals; on one hand, member states are not voluntarily relocating refugees, on the other hand they oppose mandatory solidarity leaving peripheral states on their own; on one hand, trying to stop boat arrivals, on the other not creating legal pathways for those entitled to seek refuge or migrate; on one hand, wanting to send back those who are not entitled to asylum, on the other refusing to create european partnerships with third countries. this is the ridiculous situation we are in. at the european parliament, we have legislated. you know where the people’s direct representatives stand on each and every single part of the migration pact. it’s time for the european council to get its act together. time’s up!
in writing. the european union is under constant migratory pressure. according to frontex data, there were 124 thousand illegal border crossings in 2020, and by 2022 this number will have increased to 330 thousand. hungary prevented some 270 000 illegal border crossings on the western balkans route last year alone. despite this, my country has received virtually no eu assistance in building border fences. one of the most urgent tasks is the protection of the external borders, i.e. the establishment of border control systems. in addition, the eu's partner countries must also take responsibility for the readmission of illegal migrants. it's time to stop the hypocritical support for immigration. instead, the security challenges faced by many millions of european citizens, in the narrow and wider sense of the word, must be addressed. to curb migration, we need to address the root causes. such reasons are lack of security, lack of education and lack of job opportunities. we have to see that migration is not a real solution to the ageing of europe, nor to the social and economic challenges of african countries. the doors of europe cannot be open to everyone. we must not allow the confusion between illegal immigration and the refugee problem to turn our backs on those who really need help.
in writing. both the s&d group and the esd have placed great emphasis on the need to reach tangible agreements on migration management before the end of the legislature. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of specialised agencies for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the european union's own specialised agencies for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. we therefore stress the importance of focusing the efforts of the negotiations not on return but on improving the pathways for regular migration and on strengthening humanitarian channels for asylum seekers. in this way, not only will the humanitarian crisis be alleviated, but solutions will also be found to the demographic challenge and the shortage of labour in some sectors of the union's economy.
in writing. we will vote tomorrow on the report on the rules on transparency and targeting of political advertising. manipulation and abuse like in the 2016 us presidential election or the brexit referendum is intolerable. this is why we must do everything we can to prevent malicious actors on the web from compromising future elections in our union. as policy-makers, we must take full responsibility for providing answers to fight all forms of interference in our democracies, while preserving the openness that must always characterise our political debates. i am particularly pleased that - and this is a central point of the report - our assembly prohibits non-eu based entities from financing political advertising within the eu. similarly, these 'entities' will now have to be located, identified and sanctioned. i am also glad that the personal data of minors cannot be used. it is urgent that this text should be effective before the european elections in 2024.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me start by saying to mick, if it were easy work, fun, you know, these things are difficult, but we need also to take responsibility for difficult decisions. and tying our citizens and our industry to the past is not a smart move. we need to provide regulatory clarity. the one advantage we have over other industrial powers in the world is that we are able, thanks to you and thanks to the council, to give regulatory clarity to industry so that they know in which direction to move and the direction that cars and vans are moving in worldwide. look what's happening in china. look what's happening in india. look what's happening in the united states is to electrification. and let me just really say very clearly what we're saying is zero emission at the tailpipe. so if industry thinks they can build cars with combustion engines, that can lead to zero emission, they're free to do that. but why is industry massively, massively choosing for electrication? because they know that's the most efficient way of reaching zero emissions for cars and vans. they know this. and i would implore those who've said that they will not vote for this to please reconsider. listen to the european car manufacturers. the overwhelming majority of them want this, and they'll be even faster than 2035 in electrifying their fleet. also, listen to all those who are linked to the development of this industry. listen to the european battery alliance. we will be making our own circular batteries quite soon. we will be able to basis on production in europe and in the supply chains that are linked to friendly countries. and we will reduce our dependency on china and on other parts of the world that are unfriendly to our interests. so please keep all of this in mind when you decide how to vote. ik wil ook het volgende zeggen tegen de heer roos, die terecht joop den uyl opvoert, die in nederland aan een soort revival bezig is. we leven in een tijd van industriële revolutie. alles zal opnieuw bekeken worden en in deze tijd is de spreiding van kennis, macht en inkomen weer het allerbelangrijkste onderwerp in de politiek. een industriële revolutie die niet politiek en door regelgeving gestuurd wordt, zal een kleine groep van multimiljardairs opleveren en een hele grote groep mensen die verliezen. mensen vastketenen aan het verleden is geen perspectief geven op toekomst. je moet eerlijk en duidelijk zijn over waar de toekomst ligt. in de auto-industrie ligt die in elektrificatie. i cannot say this enough: look at the future of the european car industry; it is not in combustion engines. tying them to the past is going to make it more difficult for them to invest in the future. give them the opportunity to concentrate all their investment potential on the future, which is in electrification. finally, i would like to say ich möchte gerne zu meinen deutschen kollegen aus der evp-fraktion sagen – ich sage das mal aus meiner eigenen erfahrung als mitglied einer volkspartei: wir haben als sozialdemokraten in holland auch viel opposition erlebt. wenn man aber in der opposition glaubt, man kann sich einen verantwortlichkeitsurlaub erlauben, dann ist man auf dem holzweg. man muss wissen, dass die leute, die wählerinnen und wähler, uns vertrauen und wieder zurückkommen, wenn wir auch in der opposition zeigen, dass wir verantwortung übernehmen, auch für schwierige entscheidungen.
the rapporteur. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs who have negotiated with me. i would also like to thank all the colleagues who have spoken in this debate today. i want to start by debunking what may be a myth. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that is what this proposal is about. i think it's important to mention that. what also strikes me is that a large majority of people want road transport and the use of cars and vans to be climate neutral and to be fossil fuel free. i think that's a good thing. but where i think the shoe is twisting is that a lot of people want to keep the combustion engine running and twist themselves into all sorts of turns to keep doing that. it's almost as if that's become a goal in itself. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. for example, it is said that electricity is expensive (for example by jens gieseke) and that we become dependent on raw materials. it seems to me important to mention that those who want to maintain the combustion engine want the option of using synthetic fuel. it is important to note that the production of synthetic fuels requires precisely this expensive energy, and in a very inefficient way. one unit of synthetic fuel requires five units of electricity. if you want to be climate neutral, then of course that power must also be renewable, generated by windmills and solar panels, for example. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. critical raw materials are important for the entire energy transition. not just for batteries, but certainly for windmills, solar panels, chips, and you name it. so if you want to use synthetic fuels, you need five times as many wind turbines, solar panels and raw materials. so i think that's the wrong way to go. i think that the passenger cars that have shown that they can be directly connected to the electricity grid and can start using electricity directly are much more interesting and that is a much more efficient way. another point is that i believe synthetic fuels are needed for means of transport where the means of transport cannot be equipped with, for example, a battery. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and we may also need those synthetic fuels for the existing fleet of cars that are still equipped with combustion engines. i've been on a lot of business trips, and what i found interesting is that car manufacturers also don't see any benefit in synthetic fuels. that makes sense, because that would mean that we would have to set up a credit system and that car manufacturers would have to pay co2 taxes for every new car with an internal combustion engine for the entire life of such a car. yeah, no car manufacturer is going to do that. and last but not least, we must put in place a watertight legal system to ensure that the credit system and the use of synthetic fuels are actually fraud-free. i think we have learned from the diesel scandal that we need strong, clear european legislation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. cars and light commercial vehicles are responsible for over 70% of polluting emissions from road transport. the transition to climate neutrality set out in the green deal requires us to increase the ambition of co2 standards for these types of vehicles substantially. the provisional agreement reached between the council and parliament marks a historic step forward. the end of production of combustion engines is planned, ensuring the rapid development and spread of zero-emission vehicles. this is a gradual and mandatory objective for manufacturers and must also take into account the maintenance of employment levels in the sector, support for smes in the industry and clean, affordable mobility for all. we continue to build a union that protects the health and well-being of citizens from environmental risks and impacts, and build a greener, more sustainable, fairer and more inclusive economic model.
in writing. the dogmatic decision to only allow electric vehicles in 2035 is bad for sustainable development. this decision does not take into account environmental, economic and social aspects. mining of minerals for batteries has disastrous environmental and human consequences in africa. besides, what about the power generation? today, there is not enough electricity, and too much electricity is produced by coal or gas. finally, the co2 emissions calculation is based on the use of the car only, not on the entire production cycle (car, battery, recycling). looking at it all, the balance sheet is bad. leaving a 10% threshold for other types of cars would have allowed the automotive sector to become a leader in innovative markets, such as e-fuel. the decision will also create difficulties for rural residents, because the network of charging stations is totally inadequate, even in the long term. my country is also falling short of the milestones set by europe. europe is shooting itself in the foot, undermining its competitiveness, employment and sovereignty by increasing its dependence on china. a very bad decision, which i'm sure we'll come back to.
mr. chairman, saman abbas was a teenager in italy. her body was found late last year in a condition where she could only be identified by her teeth, because she wanted to be free and to love who she wanted. this happened here, on european soil, within her own family. this is a form of extreme violence that women still face today. but on other levels, women are suffering too. not just by physical violence, but also verbal, economic or psychological. that must be stopped and this parliament must do everything in its power to help that end. that is why this interim report is a missed opportunity, because it is not constructive. there's mud being thrown all over the place. we are 27 and we all have our own thoughts, our own sensibilities. i call for us to move beyond that and focus on the core of the case: protecting all women from all forms of violence. it's the only way we can get everyone on the same page. women who suffer don't get a message from a round of mud-throwing and finger-pointing. they want a solution and this report will help to achieve that.
on behalf of the group of the european right mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was a member of three parliaments before i entered this house. now, none of these parliaments has as many rules on integrity as this european parliament. you're right to be. noblesse compliqué. and it can be better. we need to tighten our rules and we need to be even more transparent. but be warned, this will not stop criminals. criminal activity goes unreported and happens below the waterline. in our justified indignation at 'qatargate', however, we must not throw overboard fundamental achievements. an interinstitutional body, made up of external bodies, also designated by the european commission, is contrary to the separation of powers. the commission and parliament must of course follow the same basic ethical principles, but the rules for members of parliament are different from those for members of the executive. moreover, there has been a long struggle for the doctrine of the three powers, for an independent parliament, not controlled by the monarch. the opposite must be true, ladies and gentlemen. parliament is supposed to control the executive. and our freedom of speech is guaranteed by the treaty. we cannot be subject to external scrutiny for an opinion or vote we have given in the exercise of our functions. we are, of course, subject to our internal disciplinary sanctions in accordance with our rules of procedure. but parliamentary irresponsibility cannot tolerate any external control. a member of parliament must be able to speak freely in the exercise of his office. this is not a personal privilege for us, but a guarantee of the independence of parliament and its members. the executive cannot be involved in any way, directly or indirectly, in the assessment of our freedom of expression. so, ladies and gentlemen, yes to the strengthening of our internal advisory committee, which must be given more powers. but, i swear to you, no outside judgment.
member of the commission. – mr president, minister, honourable members, tunisia, of course, is a very important partner for the eu and we are following attentively and with concern the latest arrests that have been taking place in the past few days. our values are clear and we have been vocal about them. we believe that respect for the right to a fair trial and due process requirements, including judicial transparency, are crucial. and i recall that our partnership with tunisia is rooted in shared values such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights, including fundamental freedoms. we remain determined to continue supporting the tunisian population against the very difficult socioeconomic backdrop, while taking into account the evolution of the deteriorating political situation. we exchanged with our member states and we all think it would be a mistake to discontinue our assistance now, which would impose the highest price to pay on the tunisian people. we maintain the annual level of bilateral assistance and we adapt it to propose meaningful tailor-made programmes according to the current context. we expect the new tunisian government to respond to their own commitments. the eu will stand by the tunisian people and support reform efforts in today’s complex context.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, i have listened to your interventions attentively and we share your concerns regarding the electoral law, which presented some clear shortcomings. the recent elections have been marked by the absence of political parties and extremely low turnout. our hope is that president saied pursues the political roadmap he announced in december 2021. let me also recall that the eu’s aim is indeed to support the tunisian people who are facing major socio—economic and financial challenges, and as the commissioner said, we are determined to continue supporting the population against a very difficult socio—economic backdrop due to the economic impact of covid and also the russian aggression of war in ukraine, while also taking into account the evolution of the political situation. but our values are very clear: the eu has not shied away from the expression of our worries and has continued to pass important and clear messages at all levels, including meeting the tunisian authorities. but i have listened to your interventions very closely, and i thank you for your attention.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the commission communication on the rapprochement between rwanda and the democratic republic of congo (2023/2557 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable minister, honourable members, the eu is extremely concerned by the worsening security landscape in the eastern part of the democratic republic of the congo and the mounting bilateral tensions between the democratic republic of the congo and rwanda. notwithstanding multiple summits and meetings under the aegis of the regional initiatives launched to secure a peace deal – the luanda and nairobi processes – the situation has not improved. the reciprocally hostile rhetoric of the democratic republic of the congo and rwanda has not abated. the level of hate speech and ethnic violence is raising alarming levels. several cross-border incidents, including recently, remind us that the threat to regional security is all too real. the eu has repeatedly and insistently expressed its full, unequivocal support to the luanda and nairobi processes, and it does so once again. it is imperative that the decisions reached and confirmed under the frame of these processes be comprehensively respected and fully implemented by all parties. this includes stopping any collusion and support – direct or indirect – to non-state armed groups that operate in the eastern part of the democratic republic of the congo and the broader region. the eu urges the democratic republic of the congo and rwanda to exercise maximum restraint and restore an atmosphere of bilateral dialogue and mutual trust. a conflict between these two countries, directly or by proxy, would be an unmitigated disaster for both and the region as a whole, and one that would affect the most vulnerable the hardest. the region’s tragic history and the aggravating humanitarian situation in the eastern part of the democratic republic of the congo, as a consequence of the recent cycle of violence, bear powerful witness to the enormous suffering and damage this can cause. the eu will continue to closely monitor developments on the ground and look towards peace and security in the great lakes in close consultation with rwanda and the democratic republic of the congo, but also with all our other partners in the region and beyond. i thank you very much and i look forward to the debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. - mr president! the continuing escalation of tensions is undermining trust between the countries of the great lakes region and making much-needed cooperation impossible. we europeans know very well the bloody consequences of wars over raw materials. the founding fathers created the european union to solve these conflicts. and that's a lesson we need to share with our african partners. we have to see that the conflict that is unfolding on the border of congo and rwanda is nothing more than the result of a decades-long security vacuum in the eastern congo region that has not been addressed by the international community. the kinshasa government is simply unable to maintain a state presence throughout the country. this is especially true in conflict-affected areas. this allows armed militias to fight for the rights to mine essential metals like cobalt, lithium and tantalum with a variety of uncontrolled foreign subsidies. the establishment of regional peace and stability is also hampered by hate speech and violence against the tutsi people in the drc. we have seen with the neighbouring country exactly what the consequences of such incitement can be. we must not make the same mistake again. the european union, in cooperation with the member states, should provide technical assistance to the drc and rwanda, as the commissioner has mentioned, inter alia, to strengthen public institutions, to combat corruption and, in short, to establish stable governance. and every diplomatic tool must be used to help resolve the situation. the political and economic possibilities for reconciliation must be identified at regional level, involving the leaders of the region, but above all it must be assessed whether the european union can really be a real factor in promoting reconciliation. we have to face this honestly. the european union must decide whether to promote reconciliation or to wage a purely ideological war in africa.
the commission is also aware of the fact that the situation in the eastern part of the democratic republic of congo is deteriorating and that the situation in the region is worsening. in late 2014, he was appointed as the chief of staff of the rwandan armed forces. rwanda, which has been engaged in stabilization and security missions elsewhere in africa, has, according to international reports, crossed red lines in respect for sovereignty, the integrity of borders and the exploitation of resources located in the territory of the democratic republic of congo. it is essential that it stops doing so, either directly or through support for groups that challenge the sovereignty of the congo. this is the first step to end the tensions between the two countries. having done so, it is essential that the institutions of the drc and the international community work together so that the country has the capacity to fill the security gap which, as i said earlier, is at the root of the tensions identified. the reform of the congolese police, a project which has been supported by monusco (the united nations organisation stabilisation mission in the democratic republic), must continue. this support should also focus on the institutional capacity building opportunity that the presidential elections scheduled for later this year may present. in conjunction with the african union and the regional communities, the european union must continue to support the nairobi process and the kenyan mediation, which can no longer be a failed operation without consequences on the ground, lest the conflict between rwanda and the democratic republic of congo spread to the entire great lakes region, creating fertile ground for the action of rebel groups and causing intolerable damage from a political, economic and social point of view. the serious humanitarian crisis in a particularly sensitive area must be tackled and not aggravated. in the final analysis, it is the people who are indirectly suffering in their daily lives from the consequences of political and military tensions. it is for them and on their behalf that i call for dialogue, common sense and compromise among peoples, for an end to violence in the service of obscure interests and its replacement by a process of sustainable development that takes advantage of the region's enormous potential.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the war being waged by the m23 armed group, supported by rwanda, in the east of the drc requires our attention. the humanitarian situation is alarming. we are witnessing a host of evils that have accompanied this war: insecurity, forced recruitment and displacement of civilians, summary executions and massacres are now part of the landscape in the west of the drc. this is clear from the reports of human rights watch and the united nations human rights council. as we have just mentioned, these problems are known, as are the solutions. unfortunately, unlike problems, solutions are not written down. europe, commissioner, commissioner, europe must exert all its weight to facilitate the implementation of these solutions, such as the implementation of the luanda roadmap or the nairobi process. the suffering has been long enough in this powder keg, which could cause the whole region to burn if nothing is done. martin luther king said, "i'm not afraid of the wickedness of the wicked, but the silence of the honest". so let's break this silence and expose this barbarity so it ends. and to the congolese people, i say: you are on the tracks of democracy, with a great challenge, that of organizing elections. don't let the enemies of democracy turn you off this path, because they've never tasted it. amani is dead!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. where do all our raw materials come from that are in our phones, that are in our cars, that are in our trains, that are in our laptops? we rarely answer that, and far too often the answer is from a war zone. and the eastern congo is just such a war zone. 70% of the cobalt comes from there. we need all of these for the energy transition, for example. these are all the raw materials we need to drive our green transformation. and yet there is war, there are rebel groups like m23, fdlr, etc. 6 million internally displaced people in the congo - the highest rate in the world. and that means we can't talk about the congo without talking about raw materials. and when we talk about raw materials, we must of course talk about the commission's forthcoming raw materials regulation. and this has a huge opportunity, because with this regulation we can help to really drive industrialization on the ground. and this has huge benefits, because it's the only way we can make sure that these countries want our partnership and don't turn to china or russia. this is essential to our strategic positioning on this planet in our fight against dictatorships, against autocrats, for a more open society -- because we are offering the people on the ground the better alternatives, with strong environmental protection, with strong human rights conditions, so that the people on the ground can really build some of their own battery production, for example. only in this way can we contribute to the long-term peace of these regions.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, during the previous legislature, the sudden admission to eastern province of kivu and the city of goma of the drc was able to put to the report findings about extremely fragile security and humanitarian situation in the region. we were able to see with our own eyes the border violence between rwanda and the drc. the findings of you and a group of experts mandated by the un sanctions committee just magnifies this picture. i welcome this statement by the vice-president/high representative on behalf of the eu in this respect. we urge all actors to immediately dispatch to proceed along the nairobi and luanda processes. in particular, the rwandan authorities to stop supporting the un sanctioned march 23 movement and all regional actors, in particular, drc, rwanda, burundi and uganda, to further engage in supporting the peace process. the situation is of utmost concern. rapes, murders, captured peoples and slavery. these are seen on a daily basis in eastern congo. it has to be stopped!
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, kitchanga, bambo, rutshuru, kishishe, nyiragongo: how many territories in the democratic republic of congo must still be hit, occupied or suffocated like goma, currently before the european union reacts? when russia invaded ukraine, the european union and the united states mobilized. ukraine is receiving weapons, tanks, and soon probably fighter planes, and russia is being severely sanctioned, with the aim of the total collapse of its economy. but when the democratic republic of congo has been attacked for years by the m23 movement, nothing. some nice words to deceive, to smoke, but no real sanctions against rwanda, which supports this movement. so, colleagues, is the life of a congolese worth less than the life of a ukrainian? worse still, rwanda remains a partner in the european peace facility, which is in fact an instrument for the supply of arms. twenty million for the rwandan people! but what hypocrisy! what a discrepancy between words and deeds! why is europe acting this way? clearly, there are interests behind it: europe needs the cobalt, the coltan, the resources, the wealth, the raw materials that are found in the democratic republic of congo. a weakened congo, or even a balkanised congo, is therefore very suitable for some european governments. rwanda thus plays into the hands of the western powers by facilitating the plundering of the congo, especially in the east. this has to stop now.
madam president, commissioner, i am proud of european businesses, large and small. i am proud of the values they create in europe and what they do for our continent. and i'm proud of the european common market. europe has been building it, brick by brick, step by step, for 30 years, and it is one of the greatest benefits of european integration. we have to protect him like the eye in the head. the world around us is changing, and we need a quick, complex response, where every detail has to be fine-tuned. our businesses need immediate access to finance, fast approval processes, skills, innovation, global business opportunities, real investment and simplification. all of that is on the table now. let's get to it. aid is wanted, but it must be targeted, proportionate and temporary. we must avoid steps which lead to protectionism, which undermine the hard-won internal market and which only add to the burden on our businesses, especially small and medium-sized ones. the common market must remain fair, guarantee a level playing field for all players and be stable and legible. that's what this is about. entrepreneurs want to do business, so let's support them and not throw sticks at them.
the response to the ira must not be protectionist and must not undermine the internal market by relaxing state aid rules at the expense of workers and businesses in small member states. nor can the answer be a sovereign wealth fund with new debts and new taxes. the answer has to be smart: faster authorization for all investments, less stifling rules and more structural reforms, a shift in the budget towards more research, development and innovation, and the long-awaited completion of the internal market. these measures will not cost anything but will help us to become more competitive and more prosperous.
madam president, i think that when we talk about industry, we should look at the workers. and the workers, when you go and talk to them, madam commissioner, you will see that they will tell you that belly dancing in front of the multinationals does not work. belly dancing means trying to seduce them with government subsidies, tax breaks, whatever you want. because all over europe - you can go to belgium, france, italy - there are companies that have received state aid and have still closed or laid off workers. so it's not working. we must break with this logic and move towards a public logic. a public logic where public investments are given to public enterprises and certain sectors are withdrawn from the market. because, today, what is a massive obstacle for industry? this is the difference in energy prices between the united states and the european union. but by taking the energy sector into our own hands, we can lower prices for industry and citizens and, in fact, guarantee the ecological transition here, publicly, as denmark has done with a public company, ørsted.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as long as the misconduct of the mitsotakis government requires it, as long as the european commission does not take the necessary measures in the face of the too many misconduct you have just mentioned, madam commissioner, as long as the conservative right wing of this parliament prevents us from doing our work properly on the rule of law in greece, including in our pegasus committee of inquiry, believe me, our parliament will keep greece at the top of the political agenda. we refuse to sit by and watch illegal wiretaps of journalists or political opponents. we therefore reject the continuing pressure on civil society, the criminalisation of migrants and those who support them, the continuing attacks on press freedom, the rights of the opposition, the separation of powers - the list goes on and on, just look at the report on the rule of law in greece. the list is growing in a country where, after so many years of austerity, political priorities should be elsewhere, given the social and economic situation. let us face it: greece is following the same path as poland and hungary before it. history has shown us that without a firm and immediate reaction from the european institutions, the violations of the rule of law, when they are so advanced, worsen, to the detriment of all european democracy and the fundamental rights we are supposed to protect. in the cradle of democracy, the rule of law is failing, and it is up to us to act. and it is up to the european commission to be the guardian of the treaties and to go beyond the stage of recommendations if member states deviate from them to this extent.
president, which of us is proud of our immigration policy? who could look a human trafficking victim in the eye and say, we're doing well? since 2019, thousands of people have drowned in the mediterranean sea. however, the migration policy has not changed substantially since then. nothing has changed since the 2015 migration crisis either. we have met, asked questions, given interviews and pointed fingers at each other and especially at countries which cannot cope with the influx of migrants, but in fact we have made no progress in this area. it is time we recognized the urgency of this issue and reversed our immigration policy. after all, prevention is better than cure. this means that we must physically strengthen our external borders and organise the asylum procedure outside the eu. this is the only way to stop human smuggling and mass drownings. that would be human. we must abandon the illusion of a humane open borders policy so that we can preserve our solidarity with people who are really in need. this is what we can and must do together.
in writing. almost one in six buildings in europe has the worst efficiency (energy class g). in europe, about 40% of the energy used is used to heat buildings. energy efficiency renovation of buildings is usually worthwhile, as the energy savings generated are usually several times higher than the investment required to improve the energy efficiency of the building. however, the time allowed to achieve the objectives set by the bill is unrealistically short. a better quality project is needed to achieve ambitious goals. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to provide the member states with a detailed description of the measures to be taken to ensure that the aid is limited to the minimum necessary. the european parliament and the member states have agreed to extend the european emissions trading system to the construction sector. unfortunately, the energy performance of buildings directive is beginning to duplicate this agreement in some respects and this is not in line with sound legislation. the draft also does not provide clear quality requirements for the indoor climate after renovation of buildings. because of high energy prices, there are already initiatives across europe to increase the thermal performance of buildings. it can therefore be assumed that the energy efficiency improvement of buildings will continue vigorously even without any european union directive. a herbalist is definitely necessary. setting targets that are not achievable discredits climate goals rather than encouraging them. that is probably the most important objection to the bill.
in writing. ensuring a secure energy supply and ensuring access to affordable energy is one of the main tasks of the european union and its member states. this requires not only the development of low-carbon energy capacities but also the maximum use of the potential of energy efficiency. the energy modernisation of the european building stock is a matter of urgency and therefore the amendment of the energy in buildings directive is timely and justified. the availability of adequate data is an essential prerequisite for the successful implementation of building renovation programmes. it is therefore of great importance that the regulation includes assessments on the basis of embedded carbon and life cycle. in addition, the new directive includes provisions to strengthen digitalisation and sustainable mobility. however, the proposal before the house does not take sufficient account of feasibility and of the national characteristics and historical and cultural traditions of the member states. the amendments proposed in the report compiled by the left are excessively bureaucratic, forced and may cause a significant increase in the financial and administrative burden on member states and families. these proposals do not help but hinder the energy modernisation of the european building stock. the irresponsible and absurd ideas of the left would make another important area impossible. this is risky the way to effective building renovation programmes is through responsible planning and flexible regulation rather than through unrealistic targets and bureaucratic red tape.
in writing. the agreement proposed here is necessary to help europeans in a practical way to enjoy better living conditions. more energy-neutral buildings will have a positive impact on air quality and therefore on health, by reducing co2 emissions. they will also reduce our energy dependence on countries like russia. for each family, therefore, this text will reduce the costs which are rapidly increasing and becoming unmanageable. furthermore, renovating the buildings will have a positive impact on employment. by taking such decisions, europe is encouraging the (re) development of the construction sector, including in terms of integration tools. this proposal seems ideal. i would like to stress two things, however. on the one hand, we must be careful not to create a new form of poverty by making rents unaffordable. in belgium today, single parents are struggling to find suitable housing for their families and to make a living elsewhere. on the other hand, we must support the citizens in financing these renovations, for example by means of zero-interest loans, as proposed by my party, the engaged, in belgium.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i fully support the objectives of the data regulation and i congratulate the rapporteur who, together with many others, has made considerable improvements to the proposal. the eu is in dire need of a competitive data market. our backlog compared to the united states and china is dramatic. sharing data is crucial for innovation and growth, for our competitiveness, for our prosperity. but, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that there are still a number of points of work, a number of concerns, to be addressed in the area of legal certainty for our companies, the protection of their trade secrets and intellectual property. the ability of governments to demand private data must be very, very strictly limited, narrowed down, restricted. the door for improper use must be closed.
mr. president, please! the energy crisis and the price rises we are also facing in slovenia have greatly accelerated social hardship and social inequality. the dire consequences are reflected in increased social exclusion. the union's contribution for the period from 1 january 2020 to 31 december 2020 shall be eur 100000000. and those numbers have been rising for the last year. that means that as many as one-fifth of our citizens are struggling to make ends meet in a month. this should be a wake-up call to all those who doubt that we need strong social inclusion policies here and now. all member states must take measures to help people to become actively involved, that is, to help them to start and continue living in dignity. we showed that determination last fall when we passed the minimum wage bill. we expect the same determination tomorrow. let us not let our good intentions remain on paper, so yes support for parliament's resolution, even more yes for concrete measures for social inclusion throughout the european union.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for organising this debate. for a little over an hour you have given a voice to those who, although there are millions in europe, have no voice. and i think it's a step towards more justice. it's also a way to let them know that they're not forgotten. we must not forget them. and the european project is a project, it must be an inclusive project. it cannot be a project that crosses over millions of men, women and children who simply do not know how to survive, how to live tomorrow. i think you have described very well the real situation of millions of european citizens, their plight. sometimes their despair too. and it is illusory, illusory, to think that you can get out of such a situation on your own. so it's extremely important to have supports, to have a real social policy, to have a minimum income that you can count on, but that also allows you to get by, to organize your life and actually go to work if you can work. i think there are many lines, many perspectives that have been opened in this debate. you're asking me for a directive. i cannot conceal from you that my first idea when we started to deal with this important subject - we must first of all recognize that this committee has started on this subject - and therefore my first idea was indeed to consider a directive. unfortunately - and believe me, i do not like to make too many legal arguments - the treaty does not give us much leeway. the treaty was not written to intervene effectively in the social policies of the member states. and i have heard all those who have defended the interests of the poor here, pleading for minimum income instruments and at the same time, every time, invoking subsidiarity, the right of the states to determine how far they can and want to go. and so i think that, at this stage, perhaps the choice between directive and recommendation is not the most essential issue. the essential question is the political will at european level, at the level of the member states, to go ahead and say: poverty is a scandal, it is a scandal for our society and we want to tackle this problem. precariousness is not a fate, it is not a fate. and i think that is ultimately what is written in the social rights framework. and so this recommendation sets up at least a standing appeal, a process that forces member states to face up to their responsibilities. the responsibilities of actually fighting, of effectively fighting, individually, against poverty, poverty that has a face, that has names, and not leaving out millions of people who theoretically have the right to a minimum income but do not get it, either because they do not know, because they do not know how to manage themselves, or because they are ashamed. well, that shame is not on their side to be sought, the shame is on the side that leaves people in poverty. and so, of course, we're going to apply that recommendation. and maybe, if we can change the treaty one day, we need to strengthen this aspect of the treaty in terms of fighting poverty, for more justice, for more inclusion. and it is true that the youth, our recommendation is very clear about this we don't discriminate against youth. we are not excluding young people from a right, a fundamental right, because there are millions of young people today who have to stand in line for food aid, who do not know how to finance their education, who do not want to look for a job because they do not have the strength, because they really do not know how and what will be done tomorrow. well, this call you have made today must be heard and translated into concrete policies.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, i would like to thank you all for this debate on this important topic. minimum income schemes as a part of our social safety nets is a tool to contribute to reducing poverty and combating social exclusion. the recommendation is an encouragement to member states to set their income support at a level that allows a life in dignity while safeguarding the incentives to integrate and remain in the labour market for those who can work. it is within the member states’ competence to define and organise their social protection system. but i would like to emphasise that the broad support shown by the member states are a proof of the importance attached to this topic. there is a high level of ambition among the member states to ensure that minimum income support is at an adequate level that fosters participation in society and contributes to a sustainable participation in the labour market. the council recommendations recently adopted reflect just that. but once again, thank you very much for the debate and thank you for your attention.
the debate is closed. i have received two motions for resolutions to wind up this debate. the vote will take place tomorrow. the sitting was suspended for a few minutes and will resume at 3 p.m. with question time to the commission. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. in the european union, more than 95 million eu citizens are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. not only are working people in poverty, but so are their children. today, we have about 18 million poor children. poverty and social exclusion are a matter of individual and collective social responsibility and their causes are linked to the economic and social policies of the member states and the eu. social exclusion has been exacerbated by the covid-19 pandemic and the ongoing war in russia, which has led to inflation and rising food and energy prices for the first time in decades. minimum income schemes are designed to help people who, for various reasons, have no other source of income to survive. however, very often minimum income systems do not match real living standards and the most vulnerable people are left in poverty. although different types of msp are applied in all member states, their effect on convergence or poverty reduction is not sufficient and in some cases the msp is even lower than the risk of poverty. this means that people on minimum income do not have enough income to live on. existing non-binding mechanisms, such as the country-specific recommendations (csrs) and the european semester social indicator framework, have helped to combat poverty and social exclusion, but they are insufficient. we therefore need to have effective and binding legislation on minimum income schemes.
in writing. the political force i belong to, m5s, has always acted to protect the dignity of those in need. it also introduced the "citizenship income" for the first time in italy. it is a tool that is still being perfected, setting out the requirements, conditions and obligations of the beneficiary, in order to pursue the objectives of active labour and social inclusion policies, fostering employment and economic growth. while the union is debating how to improve the accessibility, adequacy and effectiveness of minimum income schemes, including through a proposal for a directive, the meloni government is pursuing the ill-fated decision to abolish the 'citizenship income'. the intention is to replace it with measures that risk reducing, rather than increasing, the resources to be allocated to disadvantaged individuals and families, who are increasingly harmed by rising energy prices and the cost of living. we will continue our fight in italy and in europe to ensure a decent life and quality employment for all. no one must be left behind.
in writing. at the last plenary session we voted on a resolution calling for a european adequate minimum income. in 2021, 95 million europeans were at risk of poverty, including 18 million children. the european commission has set itself the ambition to reduce the number of people living in poverty by at least 15 million by 2030, in partnership with the member states. in order to achieve this, we have already taken a number of initiatives in recent years, such as wage transparency, adequate minimum wages, the child guarantee, the social climate fund, the european platform to combat homelessness and the ongoing dossier for better social protection of platform workers. the energy crisis and high inflation have caused the cost of living to skyrocket in terms of energy, housing, food. people can barely survive. more and more families are getting into trouble. it is therefore time to put all the sails back on the line and provide a minimum income for the most vulnerable. this is not, of course, a universal european minimum income. the differences between the member states are too great for that. all european countries already have some kind of minimum income, but it's too low to be effective. we must move towards the european poverty line. poverty has no place in our society. europe will be social or it will not be.
member of the commission. – i do remember the negotiations in the council where this very fragile agreement on a clean energy package was achieved. i was then representing the presidency, and already then some member states claimed that their starting position was not as good as others, because the lack of digitalisation of their grids, distribution of meters. now they have to step up their action. for me, the infringement is the very last option. i prefer assistance and by achieving our agreed goals by also co-financing the necessary works. as i was mentioning earlier, there are now significant funds available also for distribution-grid operators. so eu funds usually were dedicated to cross-border infrastructure, but of course to accommodate more renewables, to allow cities to introduce thousands and thousands of electric vehicle charging points, the local grid has to be strengthened. and financing is there and a well-functioning eu-level organisation that can provide assistance and share best practices is available. now really there is a demand from prosumers side. so we have to insist that member states will implement what is already agreed. and on top of that our new electricity market design will even strengthen prosumers rights to share their production and overall to strengthen also the consumer’s right to opt for several contracting schemes. i think this is necessary. and i think that the energy crisis actually has helped us to accelerate also work on prosumers side.
member of the commission. – last summer, on top of russian manipulation, we had severe environmental conditions that triggered unexpected maintenance of several nuclear power plants and didn’t allow us to use the full potential of hydropower. and in spite of that, our market delivered. we had no risk of blackouts. on top of that, in 2022, eu—27 member states were able to cut their co2 emissions by 2.5%, so that shows that actually the new installations of renewables also helped us to tackle this very, very difficult situation. now, when you are asking if we are addressing the challenges of storage and power plants that help us to address the capacity mechanism in our electricity market design revision, we will prioritise storage and the other independent renewables because, step by step, when our electricity comes from renewables, which are intermittent, we need to prioritize also demand response and storage solutions. this is something that you can expect from our proposal. we will not open the door to extend the special scheme for coal or other fossil fuel plants because this is not necessary. the current arrangement of capacity mechanism already allows member states to address this issue.
member of the commission. – that might be true that i have named several emergency measures on top of existing legislation that helped us to tackle this energy crisis last year. indeed, each and every of these was important because we had no silver bullet. this was a complex exercise and step by step we achieved the situation where our gas storage by the end of this heating season is still half full. prices are down to pre-war levels and eu co2 emissions are significantly decreased. saying that, of course we will need lng from trusted partners and greece is a fine example: how you are delivering lng beyond your own borders. you are a crucial partner for several neighbouring countries. the eu has financed necessary infrastructure and we will do so also to address the challenges that are not only for eu member states, but also for the western balkans neighbourhood.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i'm not sure. for example, today we approved a document that talks about how we should have energy-efficient buildings. it mentions, for example, that we want to stop using fossil fuels for heating, which only means to me that we can use either solid fuels or more electricity. i come from a country that has more than 50 percent of its energy mix nuclear electricity or electricity from nuclear sources. so we have russian reactors and we use fuel from the russian federation. i would like to ask, given that the 11th package of sanctions against russia is currently being discussed, which also mentions the possibility of a ban on the import of fuel from the russian federation, how the commission intends to deal with aid to these member states, which will then have to source these resources for nuclear power stations from other countries, which will be more difficult in terms of energy but also more difficult financially, because it is not an entirely simple matter. and it also potentially increases the cost of that electricity to people. and this is really about the self-sufficiency of countries, that we can talk about renewable resources, which are beautiful, but they're not always usable, and of course it takes some time to get them up and running.
member of the commission. – thank you for your question, and i appreciate very much the chance to discuss energy performance of the buildings directive yesterday in front of this plenary. you mentioned that challenges are bigger for some member states and it might take time to decarbonise building stock – building stock that is right now responsible for 40% of eu energy consumption. but to start the decarbonisation process, at first, we need to agree that this is our target. in this regard, i highly appreciate the vote that gave the mandate through your rapporteur to start the negotiations with the council because buildings have a huge, cost-effective potential to reduce and optimise energy consumption. and the epbd on top of that clearly addresses also the root cause of energy poverty. renovations clearly will help us in several different workstreams. they will cut energy consumption. they will create a healthier living environment. and they will also create domestic jobs because the building sector is a very labour intensive sector. of course, there are possible exemptions for some member states, as it has always happened, that during the negotiations with co-legislators, some necessary flexibilities for implementation have been granted.
ladies and gentlemen, i thank all those who have asked questions and the commissioner for her answers.
the next item is question time (hr/vp) (rule 137). i would like to welcome the vice-president of the commission and high representative josep borrell very warmly to this question time. the theme of this question time is 'strengthening transatlantic relations in an increasingly complex multilateral world'. the question time will also last about 60 minutes. the time limits are as you know: one minute to ask the question, two minutes to answer, and an additional 30 seconds of question and answer. i would ask all those who wish to speak to come forward with the voting machine.
mr high representative, welcome to this question time on the transatlantic partnership. multilateralism and international law should be high on the transatlantic agenda and the authority and functioning of the un must of course be safeguarded by reforms which the transatlantic partners should be the driving force behind. but where the un is structurally deficient, for example in peacekeeping in certain regions of the world, we as transatlantic partners cannot continue to watch as the international community fails. a striking example of this, mr high representative, is the situation in eastern congo, where the situation for the local population has become completely dramatic and hopeless because of the violence, and where we, as the european union, but also as transatlantic partners, must have the ambition to do more and not to fall short. that is why i ask you, mr high representative: is the situation in eastern congo being discussed and cooperated with by the united states and are initiatives being considered in this regard?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i thought i was coming to a control session on transatlantic relations, not on the situation in eastern congo. your question refers to the situation in eastern congo, which is certainly a highly important and worrying issue, but it is not precisely something to do with the transatlantic relationship. but if you are asking whether we have a common and shared concern with the united states about the situation in eastern congo, yes, of course we do, but i must confess that we have not recently had as part of our dialogue that particular problem which you are concerned about.
the question to the high representative was if, in the transatlantic dialogue with the united states, you have discussed the topic of eastern congo, which is a dramatic situation, or where dramatic events are unfolding?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i thought i was coming to a control session on transatlantic relations, not on the situation in eastern congo. your question refers to the situation in eastern congo, which is certainly a highly important and worrying issue, but it is not precisely something to do with the transatlantic relationship. but if you ask whether we have a common and shared concern with the united states about the situation in eastern congo. well, yeah, of course we do. but i must confess that we have not recently addressed, as part of our dialogue, that specific problem which concerns you.
yeah, short order. this is not about the eastern congo issue specifically, but rather about whether the us and the eu are actively working on reforming the un where it is needed, for example in peacekeeping in areas where it is not happening today.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. yes, of course, of course we work together in our transatlantic dialogue on all issues that affect peace, and we deal with all that we can call world challenges. but if you want me to be honest, we have not had a concrete discussion recently about the situation in eastern congo. i'm not ruling out having it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i therefore take note of your interest and concern and the next time i have the opportunity to discuss this with my colleagues in the united states i shall also put this matter on the agenda.
mr high representative, welcome to the house. it is very timely that we met and discussed our global cooperation with the usa today in the deteriorating security environment at our borders and with a number of security challenges arising across the world daily. eu member states have stood by ukraine throughout russia’s war of aggression with every means possible, including through military support, with experts estimating that eu member states individually and through the european peace facility have donated approximately 12 billion in military aid in this regard. however, the war has put under pressure european defence industry production capacities, which already faced strong competition from american companies which have dominated the market in europe for years. how do you envisage future collaboration with the us in the field of the defence industry in light of both european industry production capacity shortages and strong preference over the years to procure american—made defence products? what steps are being taken to develop the european defence industry adequately to ensure member states begin procuring more interoperable equipment?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. both the united states and the european union are making a huge effort to provide military support to ukraine. and don't think that ours is insignificant or irrelevant compared to the united states, as i sometimes hear it said. in total, we have provided ukraine with €67 billion since the war began, of which €12 billion has been in military assistance. certainly the united states has done more. but if you add up everything - military, financial, humanitarian, economic - the european union is on top. we are the first group of countries to help ukraine. the problem now arises, as you say, in terms of industrial defence capabilities. and certainly there is a lot of military material coming from the united states to support the armed forces of ukraine. and part of that aid comes directly and part flows through the stocks of the member states. but i think that europe, at this moment, rather than relying on the military capability of another country, has to increase its own. what europe needs to do now is to build up its own capacity and not rely on what the united states can bring, which they are doing and a lot. but we need to develop our own capabilities. interoperability: we all use or almost all use nato-compatible weaponry. we all use the nato standards. so there are no problems with the compatibility of ammunition. what we have is a lack of capacity. and that's not going to be fixed by the united states. we'll have to fix that ourselves.
my second question is related to the fact that we are days away from very important presidential elections in montenegro, following almost three years of political instability and no progress on their european union path. how much is the us involved in fixing instability concerning the montenegrin government, fighting disinformation and external influence and trying to get the country back on track with reforms? would joint eu—us mediation similar to the joint mediation called the prespa process in north macedonia maybe an option for montenegro?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i have the feeling, mr president, that we are going to go around the world talking about all the problems under the heading of transatlantic cooperation. that's an excuse for everything. well, i can tell you what is happening in montenegro, where we are certainly committed to supporting the democratic structures of the country so that they are more functional and that montenegro can be more committed to its european perspective, continuing with its reforms. but for that to happen, montenegro must first resolve its political differences through its own institutions, and we are helping it to do that. and, yes, we can do it jointly with the united states, why not? we are working very well with the united states on the kosovo-serbia dialogue. very well, very efficiently. we have done the same in the case of macedonia. we can do the same in the case of montenegro, but at the moment we are working in coordination, including the fight against disinformation. but there is no joint mediation between the european union and the united states, or there is none yet. i take this opportunity to stress the importance of our cooperation in resolving the problem between kosovo and serbia.
last week, commission president von der leyen was with president biden in washington dc to discuss the inflation reduction act. this is a package of subsidies worth hundreds of billions of euros that will boost american manufacturing, often at the expense of european manufacturing. i was hoping von der leyen would come back with an agreement ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam, excuse me, but can you stand up? thank you.
last week, commission president von der leyen was with president biden in washington dc to discuss the inflation reduction act. this is a package of subsidies worth hundreds of billions of euros that will boost american manufacturing, often at the expense of european manufacturing. i had hoped that von der leyen would come back with an agreement for european companies to be eligible for certain subsidies. i'm afraid i didn't see the appointment. if we are talking about strengthening the transatlantic relationship, european companies deserve the same exemption as american trading partners such as mexico and canada. we can protect european jobs with this. my question to you is: will european companies be given the same status as other american trading partners?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i am sure that my president, the president of the commission, mrs von der leyen, would also have preferred to return to a closed agreement. of course, but things are more complicated than they seem and the agreements we need have not yet been reached. but what i can tell you is that we are going to work on an agreement on critical raw materials to ensure that our supply chains in europe have market access and that we are going to start a dialogue on clean energy incentives to build each other's capacity. but, yes, there is still work to be done and much to be negotiated. i understand that you would have preferred to have results now, but it will have to wait. new negotiations will begin immediately to reach an agreement on critical minerals which should allow european companies to have the same conditions as those in canada or mexico. i should be. that is the aim of the negotiations, but no one knows yet when and how this agreement can be reached. and the second result, as i have said, is the launching of this dialogue on clean energy incentives so that we can both work in a complementary way. but it is clear that, with the inflation reduction act (ira), the united states has put in place one of the most protectionist policies since the 1930s and this we must take very seriously.
if we're talking about protecting our jobs, we need to address unfair competition from china and work with the u.s. to become less dependent on china. it's a step in the right direction that we're going to be working together -- as you said -- on critical raw materials, like batteries. should we not finally move towards more ambitious and wider trade cooperation between the eu and the us? more trade would also create more jobs on both sides.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. yes, of course. what you are asking opens the door to a question of enormous importance, which is what the respective positions of the european union and the united states will be with regard to china. i have said this on many occasions: we are not equidistant between china and the united states. how could we be, if we share the same political and economic system? but we have our own interests and therefore we must ensure that decisions taken by the united states which have collateral effects on third countries do not have a countervailing effect on our interests. one thing is clear: the system that the united states has sought to fight climate change, which is massive subsidies to renewable energy producers, is not the same as the one we have used so far, which has used instruments such as prices, through the system of emission allowances, or taxes, such as the border adjustment tax. let us say that the united states has used the carrot more and we have used the stick more, that is, measures that punish those who do not comply. the united states is looking to boost investment, but it is not taking measures, let us say, of a punitive nature. but the solutions must always respect the rules of international trade, which we have always defended. and it is clear that what the united states has proposed in many respects does not do so.
the united states is the most important partner for the european union. the russian aggression against ukraine has once again demonstrated the enormous importance of this relationship and also of nato. we should now strengthen these links by taking advantage of the years in which we have in washington an administration that is really close to europe. i welcome the initial agreements reached by mrs von der leyen with mr biden on friday, but i would have liked them to be more ambitious, not to be limited basically to critical minerals and the electric car problem. it seems to me a pity that we did not reach the atci agreement at the obama stage. there was a lack of political will in washington and also in europe. if we had done that, we probably wouldn't have the problems that we have now with the inflation reduction act. in this context, mr borrell, do you not think that now would be a good time to take a leap forward in the economic and trade links with the united states, and also in the political one, to ensure that we have a strengthened institutional framework for this relationship that future administrations in washington cannot ignore?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i wish my answer were laconic, but i could sum it up in a yes. yeah, yeah, i think this is a good time to take a hard look at our relationships. no one's locked any doors. the council on trade and technology was set up to find solutions to the two major issues that will shape our relations and our position in relation to the rest of the world: trade and technology, which will influence each other. you regret that you did not reach an agreement in your day, that you missed an opportunity, but it is of little use to cry over spilled milk. what we have to do now is to use our efforts and our capabilities to take advantage of the new opportunities that this inflationary push brings to us; the decision of the united states to act as it is doing. i think biden is acting like a good social democrat. its economic policy is "seems" to be tailored to a classic european social democrat. and i'm sure that in many ways, we should be able to agree with him.
mr borrell, i think we should be more ambitious. these initial agreements are too specific on very specific subjects. i worry, and i guess you worry too - although, of course, neither you nor i have a crystal ball - that in the future we may have an administration in washington that is far removed from the positive line of now and that we may return to a stage of distancing, like we had in the trump stage. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. well, actually no agreement has been reached. i'm not sure. i mean, he tells me he would like to see agreements on more issues. i will put my foot down: we have no agreement at the moment. the only agreement we have is to continue to work towards agreements. that's better than nothing. but we have no agreements at the moment. we have an agreement to continue working towards agreements on two issues - at least two. it would certainly be nice to have more, but, frankly, we're going to focus our efforts on these two, which i don't think are easy, especially the critical materials, because this is going to have a lot of consequences and implications for the rest of the world. we're talking about value chains that we can share with the united states and we're saying we're going to work with like-minded partners to drive global cooperation. let me tell you that if we want to get agreements to limit climate change, peace and cooperation, we cannot limit ourselves to like-minded countries. we need to talk to non-country partners, because some of these global problems are not solvable without them.
mr president, the honourable high representative for foreign affairs and security policy! my question will be about the extraordinary progress bosnia and herzegovina has made in its rapprochement with the european union. the status of bosnia and herzegovina today can be compared with that of ukraine, thanks to you, thanks to you personally, thanks to this european parliament and also to my country, the republic of slovenia, which has invested a great deal of energy and effort in recent months to give this country, after ten years of stagnation, a european perspective. as i would expect from you, so i expect from commissioner várhelyi. his role in this case is unknown to me and unknown to you. but nevertheless, i would also like to commend the bosnian authorities in particular for the progress they have made since the elections. this is a remarkable progress, comparable to that of all the most developed european countries. let me ask you a question, mr commissioner, high representative. what is the path of bosnia and herzegovina in your eyes? what will your department do in the coming months to further accelerate its progress towards the european union?
what was the question?
actually in slovenian it was quite concise. what could the eeas do in the next future to push forward the ambitions of bosnia and herzegovina on the european path?
dear colleague, that has nothing to do with today’s question time.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. but wasn't this a debate about transatlantic ties?
yes.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. or am i in the wrong place?
no, you are right.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i can tell you about bosnia and herzegovina, but i was coming here for something else...
we are continuing.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. yes, there has been an agreement, with china's mediation, between iran and saudi arabia, which involves the re-establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries. we have welcomed the announcement of this agreement and we are certainly looking forward to seeing how it is implemented. the diplomatic efforts that have brought this about must be acknowledged. because the two countries, saudi arabia and iran, are central to stability and security in the region, and i believe that the fact that they are re-establishing bilateral relations can contribute to stability in the region as a whole. that is one of our priorities and we are certainly working together with the united states on this. de-escalating tensions in what we call the broader middle east is a priority for us. we're working with all the agents in the area to see if we can stabilize the region. but we'll have to be vigilant, because those two countries have lived for decades in mutual hostility, especially in the development of iran's nuclear ambitions. let's see how this agreement contributes to the stability of the region.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – well, i weigh my words, because this is a very sensitive issue and my role is not to negotiate with the us or to reach agreement with the us, but to make possible agreements between the us, the rest of the international community and iran. i am not a negotiator. i am not part. i don’t negotiate. i coordinate the negotiations, which is a different thing. the negotiations are between iran, on one side, and the international community on the other side. and the international community is being represented by the us, by china, by russia and by three member states, two plus the united kingdom. my role is to coordinate. and i am playing the role even not as high representative, but as a direct asking of the security council. and we stay committed to continue looking for any possibility in order to facilitate this dialogue. unhappily, the last news on the reports referred to the presence of 83.7% high-enriched uranium and the fordow facility has been very much troublesome. we support fully the international atomic energy agency on its impartial work to clarify what is the source of this enriched uranium, and which is the real concern that it represents for the nuclear path of iran. i continue believing that a restored jcpoa could be or it is the best way to prevent iran from developing a nuclear weapon. and i continue ready to develop diplomatic efforts to make that possible. but it’s not up to me, as i said, and it’s important to make the difference. i am not negotiating. i am coordinating the negotiations.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – your question was about opening the trade and technology council to others? this is a bilateral issue. the trade and technology council is a bilateral issue between the us... and i myself am not part of this council, so it is difficult for me to say how this council should work when one is not part of it. but why not? sorry i cannot give you a precise answer. and about these other things, these are much more concrete things to discuss. how can we use our tools in order to support the people who are in russia today? and enlarge the number of political prisoners? no, i don’t think the us is more ready than us to work for that. no, i don’t think so. i think that both are equally committed. both are equally ready. the problem is, how do we do that? but believe me, there is not a difference between the us and europe on supporting the russian political prisoners, whose big number is certainly something that marks the putin regime.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – (inaudible) i don’t think the us is more ready than us to work for that. no, i don’t think so. i think that both are equally committed. both are equally ready. the problem is how do we do that? but believe me, there is not a difference between the us and europe on supporting the russian political prisoners, which big number is certainly something that marks the putin regime.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i can't tell you if there's going to be another cold war. i know we have to do everything we can to avoid it. we already had one. but the cold war that we had was a cold war with economic and financial isolation between the parties. there were no trade relations, there were no financial relations between the united states and soviet russia. the exchange between the two blocks was minimal, ridiculous. and most importantly, the soviet union was not the banker of the united states. but today, china is the banker of the united states. it was china's purchase of treasury bonds and consumer credit that allowed the united states to continue its financial momentum. and the trade between china and the united states is orderly, i don't have the numbers in my head, billions a day, not a year, a day. so it's a cold war between two parties that have no interest in the annihilation of the other, because they're too closely linked. it's true that now we're trying to find the parade for this mutual commitment. but if you talk to the united states about decoupling with china, they'll tell you, no, it's not decoupling we're looking for, it's deriscking. that's something else. and from that perspective, there's going to be a confrontation, and we're in it, and it's going to be the century. this century will be the century of the confrontation between these two great powers. but i think we have every interest in avoiding first throwing russia into the arms of china and provoking an alliance of these two authoritarian regimes, and then defending the interests that are ours.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – theoretically, we are very much ready for that. and yes, we support the enlargement of the security council for a better representation of the world the way it is today, which is not the world when the multilateral institutions were created on the aftermath of world war two. but if we have more members of the security council in order to have more veto rights, then we are not going to improve the working of the united nations system. more vetoes means more difficulties to reach agreements, and we have already a lot. but, on the other hand, i don’t see a lot of people ready to renounce to their veto rights. do you know some? do you know some who say, ‘yes, i’m going to renounce my veto right on the security council’? certainly not. so, if we want to make the security council more flexible, we have first to have more members inside, second to have less veto rights, in order to be able to get decisions quicker and more engaged with the world problems. but it’s not only the united nations, it’s also about financial institutions that have to be renewed and reformed. and for that, last week in stockholm, the minister of development discussed our proposals for the reform of the financial institutions. believe me, neither is so easy. everybody is ready to open and to give roles to the others, but when the time comes to renounce some of your part in order for the others to have a bigger part, then the difficulties start.
dear colleagues, we have so many colleagues asking for the floor. it is impossible to give everyone the floor, but i ask you to delete the second question. then it is possible to give more people the floor. so only one question, answer and go on.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – these are cosmic questions. difficult to answer in a minute and a half. nothing is white, nothing is black on that. we are partners, but we defend our own interests. and certainly the us did not consult us when they approved the inflation reduction act. now we are trying to negotiate in order to see how the collateral effects of this decision can touch us. and with the contrast with other international powers, we agree that our cooperation has to strengthen not only our economic security, but also national security, but being rooted on the multilateral system. this multilateral system has, among others, the wto. as i said before, the ira is the biggest protectionist measure that the us has launched in 1913. and it is certainly in many parts of the ira, it is something against the rules of the wto. i am not blaming anyone i am just saying that white is white. so certainly we can follow them. and also to undermine still more this multilateral order, or we can try to look for something that could not be a race to who is the one who gives better and bigger subsidies, because then we go in a completely geopolitical and economic landscape than the one in which we have been working until now. and is not clear how it is going to go. president von der leyen went to washington, certainly, it was excellent relations. but what we have in the table now is the will to continue discussing.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – nobody is looking for a confrontation with the us. nobody is looking for that. president von der leyen went to the us, certainly not looking for confrontation, but looking for understanding and agreement. so do not worry, this is not the case. we are not looking for a confrontation with the us in any field. but, if the transatlantic relations are in a very good shape, it is for two reasons. first, because we share the same interests and values, or at least, they are very well aligned in many issues. we share the same political analysis of russia’s war; we both want ukraine to regain its full sovereignty. but our relationship works well because our partnership is balanced. and the more balanced it will be, the better it will work. and i think that the us understands that perfectly. i think that the us are very much interested in the european union to assume their strategic responsibilities, and that a stronger europe will make a stronger transatlantic relationship. our relationship works well because it is balanced, and the more balanced it will be, the better it will work.
mr president, mr foreign minister, here is a question. you know that the credibility of the european union in the world depends not only on how we treat other countries, but above all on how we interact with our allies. you have been a strong advocate, precisely, of not allowing russian war crimes in ukraine to go unpunished. but today, we are 20 years into the american war against iraq, a criminal war, in violation of international law, that has killed about half a million people, and still no american government official has been held accountable. so, in our transatlantic relations and for the credibility of the european union, in order not to have a european union that has two weights and two measures, as we are often accused by latin america, africa, etc., will you put this question on the table, and how?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. you forgive me, but under the name of transatlantic relationship you are putting whatever comes to mind. so now it turns out that the transatlantic relationship determines serbia's integration into the... let us see, mr president, i am happy to come here to answer a specific question, but if you ask me anything and then say to me 'this has to do with the transatlantic relationship', i will say 'no, it has nothing to do with the transatlantic relationship and i have no idea what serbia's prospect is of joining nato'.
mr president, i would like to ask about transatlantic relations, mr borrell. we've always had a very good cooperation with the americans in terms of humanitarian aid and support for the countries that were the most vulnerable, that had all kinds of problems. today, for example, we're discussing critical raw materials that are needed for us and for the americans and for other countries, for example, china, to manufacture and develop various products. i would like to ask where is the current discussion with the united states on this issue? what regions do we consider to be of such importance to us? but also in terms of not just what kind of humanitarian aid we're supporting and how we're supporting people in these regions, but also how we're protecting these people? and since we're friends, but we're also competitors, how do we actually help these countries fight climate change? because very often these resources that we use and extract cause various environmental problems.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i must admit that i do not understand the question. i mean, how do we help who for what? how do i help which countries? please, ladies and gentlemen, if you want me to answer you with a little seriousness, ask me some questions that i can answer. how do we help which countries to deal with climate change? which countries are you referring to?
mr borrell, the cooperation on china is a core issue in transatlantic relations. recent media excitement has focused on some lack of clarity as to where the eu stands. president von der leyen has been accused of being overly hawkish. some people even felt the need to say we should not be a vassal of the united states, while president michel has been dubbed as the person who tries to avoid confrontation. now, where should the eu stand with regard to transatlantic relations on china? and i have three specific questions. president biden has said yes to all three. what are you saying? should there be outbound investment screening? should there be sanctions if china delivers arms to russia? and should there be a deterrence policy to avoid an attack on taiwan?
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – this is about our relationship with china, not with the us. our position with china on arms to ukraine, our position on china versus taiwan, which was the other one? screening of investments? this is our position on china. do you want a debate on china? call for it! call for it! but don’t hide between the transatlantic relations to discuss about china.
mr bütikofer said at the beginning that china is a part of the transatlantic relation, because we need a common position with the west vis-à-via china. i accept that ...
i would like to apologize for the fact that many of my colleagues have widened the subject of question time today. i've been there a few times, and so have you. but in this case, it is not an escape, but it is a connection with our transatlantic relations and the relationship with china.
well, i would like to join my colleague mr bütikofer in this, because i have to be honest, mr borrell, it is indeed about transatlantic relations and i am also using this - as does my colleague mr bütikofer - to bring this up. mrs ursula von der leyen was in the united states. we now read that there is a conflict of attitudes between mrs von der leyen and charles michel as regards the view of china. we have voted in favour of an excellent report by me on china, in which we said: for china policy, we need to talk to equals. now i ask you the question, mr. borrell: was there any exchange of information? has the united states, as a good partner, exchanged information with us europeans about whether china is supplying weapons to russia in the conflict there? that is a question about transatlantic relations. and also: you are divided between the council and the commission, aren't you? what is your position now? do you follow mrs von der leyen or do you follow charles michel in relation to china policy? are you influenced by the attitude of the united states towards china? that is clearly a question about transatlantic relations.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – look, i am not aware that there is a difference between the president of the commission and the president of the council, is there? where is this information coming from? do you read the press? (in reaction to off-mic comment by hilde vautmans) let’s be serious. please. let’s be serious. the common foreign policy of the european union is being driven by the european union council because foreign policy belongs to the member states, not to the commission. i am charged with building a common foreign policy, putting together the different approaches of the different member states to china. so the foreign policy of the european union with respect to china is being built under the political guidance of the european union council. trade policy is a competence of the community pillar of the european union. but trade policy doesn’t dictate foreign policy. trade policy is part of foreign policy. trade policy doesn’t drive foreign policy. it is foreign policy that drives trade policy. does that answer your question?
we're closing the question... please, please! we shall conclude the question time with the high representative and the vice-president of the commission. the vividness and diversity of the issues shows how deeply not only transatlantic relations but also geopolitical developments have become part of the political debate in europe. i think that's good. in future i would ask the honourable members to keep the question of question time in mind when they ask questions.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission, the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on the deterioration of democracy in israel and the consequences for the occupied territories (2023/2593 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, thank you for this opportunity to address you today on the increasingly important issues. everybody is following closely the developments in the middle east in the past weeks, both in israel and in the occupied palestinian territories. first i would like to start by underlying both the european union’s and my own personal engagement with both parties. i’ve been in contact with both israeli foreign minister cohen – even this morning – and the palestinian prime minister. we invited the prime minister to brussels, where we had a very good exchange at the last foreign affairs council in january. this has been coupled with public messaging. you have seen a number of my statements – not my statements – the last one was an a statement of 27 member states. sometimes people blame me for the statements of the 27 member states. it’s not me, it’s the 27 member states. i am representing the council, and the council is the 27 member states. this was issued last wednesday. and when we face a difficult situation on the ground with increasing violence and extremism i think it’s crucial that the european union is united and speaks with one voice, not my voice, the voice of the 27, all together. and we managed to reach an agreement of the 27. and this is the first time it happened for many years, that we had the statement of the 27. and i spoke this morning on the phone with the israeli foreign minister eli cohen, who was not very happy about this debate. he was concerned. he was asking why the european parliament is interfering in the internal affairs of israel. he was once again blaming me. well, sorry, i am coming to the parliament. the parliament calls me to discuss something, and i have to come. which i did. it’s not me who put this title, ‘deterioration of democracy in israel and consequences on the occupied territories’, it’s the political groups, and this parliament is able to discuss about everything they consider important. and that’s what i try to explain to the israeli minister in a very friendly way: ‘look, it’s normal that the parliamentarians are concerned about the growing spiral of violence in israel and the occupied palestinian territories and the need for all sides to de-escalate the situation’. i mentioned this agreement that we reached with the 27 member states where, of course, we condemn terrorism; of course we fully recognise israel’s right to defend itself; and we certainly never draw a comparison between operations by the israeli military and the actions of terrorists. but we have to call for the proportional use of force. no, we don’t want any kind of funding activities that could encourage incitement. of course we are a strong believer in the two—state solution. and there is no, we believe, viable alternative to that. and with our international partners, we will continue to work for a peaceful solution to the conflict. and i am using this parliament to say – and i suppose you agree – that the european union has to engage on looking for peace in the middle east, and that the middle east peace process is something that matters for us, and we are engaged on that. maybe someone doesn’t like it, but we do it because we believe that is our contribution to the security in the region and to our security too. so i hope that today will be a good discussion to show to minister cohen that the parliament is ready to discuss what is happening in the middle east and how we can contribute to the peace process. and this is not at all to have an anti-israeli position. not at all. second, we have known israel for its vibrant democracy. that’s true. so vibrant that we have seen five elections in the past three years. very vibrant. five elections in three years is quite a dynamic electoral process. and the new government is keen to pursue a judicial reform. and that’s what we want to discuss today: a judicial reform which has led to a heated internal political debate. and everybody knows, because everybody watches tv and reads newspapers, that many israelis have been demonstrating in the streets. and both the government and opposition are using fierce language. a compromise seems difficult, but as far as i know, talks are ongoing, especially thanks to the efforts of president herzog. and i don’t want to prejudge the outcome of this debate. i am not part of this debate. i am just saying that this debate is taking place. and i can’t remember you what the president herzog himself has said. and we are a close observer because israel is a key partner. our values are based on our democratic and open society and the rule of law. and we expect this to continue. and if we have concerns, if you have concerns, you will not hesitate to express them and convey them as you do with any part of the world. for example, the knesset is discussing a bill that could re-establish the death penalty. we know that we are strongly and we are in principle opposed to the death penalty. and for sure today, i’m sure that many members will engage on this clearly. and third, with full respect to the internal political dynamics in israel, this chamber is fully empowered to discuss these dynamics and to understand what happens there with respect to our perception of our values and interest in the region. nothing is strange on that. this cannot be seen as an interference, but a way of showing our interest and our appreciation for the israeli democracy. and then you present in the title of the debate also the consequences on the palestinian territories, the occupied palestinian territories. and i am not inventing the new world if i say that the situation there is grave. and that violence has reached levels unseen since 2005, with an appalling number of victims, including children. things cannot go on like this. and i made a call with our statement and also with an article published in the middle east press, asking both sides to act urgently and responsibly. they need to do whatever they can to allow for a change of course. and we have been clear and i will be clear once again: settlements are illegal under international law. is that being anti-israeli saying that? no: settlements are illegal under international law. and the expansion must stop, as well as demolition and evictions of palestinians from their homes. the israeli government must seriously counter the violence of settler extremism and hold perpetrators accountable. and military operations must be proportionate and in line with international humanitarian law. it’s difficult not to agree on that. but the palestinian authority must act too. they must redouble their efforts in terms of security cooperation and work to prevent acts of terror that have claimed many israeli lives. it is equally important that the palestinians work towards reconciliation in order to reunite the palestinian territories under one single legitimate authority. palestinian factions should engage constructively in reconciliation talks. palestinian people deserve the right to vote in national democratic elections to renew the legitimacy of their leadership. this is important also in view of future peace talks. the international community must act as well to help bring about a renewed perspective for peace. and we need renewed international efforts to help both israelis and palestinians to think through their options. and in order to contribute to that, on 13 february i met with the saudi foreign minister, prince faisal, and with arab league secretary—general aboul gheit, and we agreed to work together towards a viable solution in order to revive and build on the arab peace initiative, also by adding a european peace contribution to it. and in these efforts we will be working closely with other arab and international partners. we have also supported the work of the us, including on the recent aqaba joint communiqué. and all parties should now respect the agreements that they reached in aqaba in good faith. and we must help to create the conditions where it will be advantageous for israelis and palestinians to go back to the negotiating table and talk. and nothing will make me more happy than to be able to contribute from the european union to prepare this process. i’m sure everybody in this chamber agrees that the european union should do all we can in order to contribute to a peaceful settlement of the conflict in the middle east and peace between israel and palestine. this and nothing else is what is moving us, and in particular me.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, dear colleagues, our support for israel as a functioning, vibrant democracy in the middle east is, to a large extent, dependent on this very fact – that it remains a functioning democracy, where the separation of powers between the executive, parliament and the courts prevails. the legislation that is currently passing the knesset seeks, among other issues, to enable the knesset to overrule supreme court decisions. such legislation must be a no go in a functioning democracy. but there is hope and protest. israeli president yitzhak herzog last thursday said that the government should abandon proposed legislation to overhaul the country’s judiciary, in favour of a model with broad national support. i also put my trust in israel’s vibrant civil society. hundreds of thousands of citizens are demonstrating every day against this onslaught on a liberal democracy, and they will not let it happen. israel, with its founding legacy, must remain on moral high ground. the prime minister has to guarantee that hate speech against political opponents and extremist positions expressed by cabinet ministers do not further encourage a circle of violence, such as the radical settlers attacking palestinians in huwara. he is also responsible not to implement those parts of the coalition agreement where the signatories claim, ‘israel has a natural right over all of the land, and a fundamental purpose of the new government will be to promote israeli sovereignty over the west bank’. we want to defend israel’s legitimate right to exist as the jewish state, but we cannot defend what is illegitimate.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – in just a few short weeks, we have seen what the most extremist government in israel’s seven-decade history is capable of: eroding democracy by undermining the independence of the judiciary. mr borrell, the eu must unequivocally stand with those who defend a solid democracy with proper checks and balances in israel. and you should make clear that if these reforms go ahead, this will ultimately have consequences for relations between the eu and israel. but as we look at what is going on in the streets of israel and in the knesset, we need also to be looking at what is happening in the occupied territories. and there we see more of the same. perhaps with greater intensity. we see growing violence, expansion plans for illegal settlements, a de facto annexation turning into a covert, de jure annexation, daily discrimination against palestinians, demolitions... it is necessary that it also gets international attention and condemnation and that the eu finally gets vocal and consistent, opposing occupation policies from the current government, as well as former ones which seek to make a just and lasting peace an impossibility.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. israel's governing coalition of far-right parties is in the process of tearing down the country's democratic constitution. the european parliament has been calling for a new law to be passed on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity. the commission is also proposing to introduce the death penalty and to transfer responsibility for the occupied territories to the new settlement office in the occupied west bank. the problem is that the settlement policy has now been unchecked and the annexation trends have been accelerated. this is not an internal matter. this policy is no excuse for terrorist attacks, but it will not help to break the spiral of hatred and violence. the european union is a member of the european union, and the european union is a member of the european union. we must finally be clear about supporting the forces in israeli society that defend these values and ways, if necessary against their own government.
mr. president, i have to ask you... mr high representative, i would like to thank you for your cooperation. my fellow members of the house of representatives! israel has a stable, democratically elected government, and the attacks against it have once again demonstrated the inability of left-wing forces to accept an election result they do not like. the left is now attacking israel politically, just as it is attacking hungary, because of the elections. it's time to finally respect the will of the majority of voters and the outcome of democratic elections. the conclusion of the abraham accords after many decades could be a guarantee of lasting peace between israel and the arab countries. the israeli prime minister deserves credit for his efforts to bring stability to the middle east. this is also crucial for the security of europe, as its absence leads to an increase in the threat of terrorism and illegal migration. it is in europe's vital interest to support the middle east peace process. israel's right to self-defense must be respected. the terrorist attack against all israeli citizens is to be condemned. we need to make peace.
mr president, thousands of people are demonstrating peacefully in israel defending the rule of law. this has recently happened in spain too, because of my government's - no? - manoeuvres in judicial matters. what it shows is that it's a democratic country, like any other here. but the proposed judicial reforms in israel are going through an intense legislative and political process right now, a process that we don't yet know about. i think we lose some credibility, mr borrell, as strategic actors if we rush to debate a law in the process of being created in a democratic country, unlike those around him, about whom we often talk little. of course, i share the concerns about these proposed reforms as they stand now. moreover, i do not share them. but we must remember that one of the advantages of democracy - if any has been forgotten - is the negotiation and participation of different actors in the legislative processes. we must trust the democratic system in israel, which will reflect the will of the voters and also the diversity of opinions on this sensitive issue of the rule of law. the citizens, the politicians and the israeli society - and you have mentioned this, mr borrell, and others have mentioned it - the president of israel, president herzog, will naturally intervene in this process. unlike other countries, israel enjoys excellent democratic health. only if their checks and balances fail will we have the authority and, of course, the time to criticise what is decided there. (the speaker agrees to reply to an intervention under the 'blue card' procedure)
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a 'blue card' intervention. mr lópez-istúriz, as the chairman of the delegation for relations with israel, i asked you recently, at the delegation meeting, whether you were aware of what happened to me on entering tel aviv airport. you were left with a statement to make to the israeli government; i simply wanted to ask whether you had done so or whether you had any information to enable them to withdraw the veto on the entry ban as a member of this house. thank you for answering.
the answer is 'blue card'. the president's office has been contacted and as you know and have been told, has been informed is following the case. on this particular case, i will make a statement about it - i am glad to be able to say it now in public - at the next meeting of the israeli delegation, which i believe is in one or two weeks. you'll soon have the answer to everything we've recovered.
mr president, the recent developments have shown a global alarming trend towards the normalisation of far—right and ultra—nationalist ideologies, with the potential to further erode the democratic principles on which the eu and the eu partnership are founded. israel makes no exception. as it is well known, the pegasus spyware developed and distributed by an israeli company is being widely used to target human rights defenders, journalists and political opponents across the world, including in our union. this is an aspect that should be firmly taken into account in all our cooperation, especially when they are set up, and as it happened with the israeli police force, including on cybercrimes, to ensure adequate controls and conditionalities, because the use of such spyware to silence dissidents and stifle free speech is a threat to democracy and must be firmly condemned. as representatives of the european union we must use our voice to call for greater accountability and transparency in the sale and the use of such technology. we must stand in solidarity with those who fight for human rights and democratic values, because only by working together can we ensure a future where all people can live in freedom, dignity and justice.
mr president, high commissioner, israel has been a democracy in the last 75 years. actually they are having many elections, they had three elections in last four years and they have quite a heated debate. and as we gather today to discuss the recent protest in israel, my sincere hope is that the israeli society will come together to find a compromise on this debate. i would like to take a moment as well to address the ongoing escalating wave of violence not seen in the last 15 years. with the greatest sadness, we are continuing to witness the loss of innocent lives in both israel and palestine. we need an active diplomacy and it’s quite urgent, and dialogue to end this conflict. i commend the effort of the us, jordan and egypt in trying to de-escalate the situation through the aqaba communique of 26 february 2023. the eu can also play an important role as an honest broker in this process. countries in the region and the conflicting parties should continue to work towards de-escalation to achieve long-lasting peace and prevent more unnecessary deaths. please. that’s the task for the eu and we can really play a constructive role in this.
mr president, high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the netanyahu government, which will come to power at the end of 2022, unfortunately already holds two records: he is the most right-wing executive in israel's history and he has sparked the largest anti-government protests ever. hundreds of thousands of people are taking to the streets these days to reject a judicial reform that wants to concentrate power in the hands of the executive and deprive the supreme court. with this reform, the government would be able to appoint the judges of the court much more easily, the veto power over government laws would be eliminated, and the majority would be able to block the judgments of the court itself. this is an example of an authoritarian nationalist design by a government that threatens the state of israeli democracy, its checks and balances, and the prospects for peace with the palestinian people, while continuing an unprecedented spiral of violence. the european union cannot turn the other way: the european union must also commit itself to democracy and peace in that region.
mr president, the israeli government, which includes far-right, ultra-nationalist and ultra-religious parties, was, according to statements by some of its leaders - who are now ministers - an anti-liberal, pro-annexation, racist and homophobic government. unfortunately, what's happening is proof of the former. judicial reform is really an anti-democratic coup. we are here, debating, because it is not an internal issue of israel. the most affected by this reform will be the palestinians and those minorities most vulnerable. the policy of annexing occupied territories and discriminating against the rights of the palestinians has been going on for years. the violation of international law, too. of course, this reform, if it does away with judicial guarantees, will only deepen it. the rights of israelis and palestinians are being threatened. the same interior minister who called for a harsh crackdown on israeli protesters is the one who is covering up the settlers' violent actions. it's time, high representative, for a performance. no, i do not. (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker)
mr president, i would like to thank you. the complex of laws that is coming up in israel is a disaster for israeli democracy. but it was already the hole in the laws that clearly discriminate against the palestinian citizens of israel, let alone those in occupied palestine. for 55 years, their lives have gone from bad to worse. in 2022, 146 civilians were killed, including 39 children. most of the idf is off the hook. land was stolen by settlers, houses were torn down in a violent fashion, children and adults were imprisoned for months, even years. with the new government, the last vestige of legal protection will disappear. the annexation of palestine is now proceeding in full legal and expeditious fashion. international law is to israel a city in russia, gone. mr borrell, relevance, speech is important, but even more important is relevant action, now. desmond tutu also considered israel an apartheid state. his answer to those who put on the cloak of neutrality was, if you are neutral in situations of injustice, you have chosen the side of the oppressor.
mr president, mr foreign minister of europe, yes, indeed, the european union is being criticized all over the world for its double standards. on the one hand, because we never criticize, for example, american war crimes, but we also criticize israel and the european union's association with israel. so, this is difficult for me to understand, and i find it difficult to understand because we do have an israeli government today that declares, that openly admits to violating international law, that wants to annex the palestinian territories. we see a minister calling for the wiping out and razing of a village like huwara. and this is in addition to the bulldozers that demolish palestinian homes, the murders of children, and so on. i think that if any other state had done half a quarter of what israel is doing, we would have called for sanctions by now. we would certainly not have signed an association agreement with that state. but here, for israel, you already seem to be apologizing for a rather strong statement. so today, let us be consistent, take sanctions or at least suspend the association agreement. we can't stay associated with such a government anyway!
on behalf of the group of the european right president. - ladies and gentlemen, we are very pleased that there is at last a workable agreement on the northern ireland protocol with a small caveat, admittedly, to the stormont emergency brake. all thanks go to commissioner šefčovič, who has been patient, flexible and pragmatic throughout the process. ladies and gentlemen, this agreement could be a turning point. either the uk's bill to scrap eu legislation goes the wrong way, or we will find ourselves with the pragmatic prime minister sunak in a renewed partnership in many areas. i am thinking of horizon europe, which is a very important project. i am thinking of energy, migration, climate and defence. furthermore, sustainable cooperation for a blue economy in and around the north sea. and finally, ladies and gentlemen, my pet of a horse: a trilateral eu/us/uk partnership in the trade and technology council. in short, a new interpretation of an old alliance.
president, i have heard a lot of good intentions, but we have been hearing them since 2000. with the lisbon strategy, we would be the largest competitive knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010, then with barroso postponed to 2020. the same with the juncker commission. and now, a new beginning. we've been asking for years: take the appropriate measures. complete the internal market, conclude more trade agreements, speed up licensing, reduce regulatory burdens, invest much more in research and development. and i would ask the commissioner and the president: don't try to copy china, invest in the next generation of technology for batteries, for solar panels, for wind turbines. then we'll be the global leader.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, ‘i am very grateful to be a woman. i must have done something great in another life.’ that’s what dr maya angelou said, and i totally agree with her. in particular, being a western woman is really good. i can say that because i know what other kind of lives are. we all know what is happening in iran. we all know what is happening in so many countries where women and girls are blocked, are mistreated, barred from school, prevented from achieving their full potential. in kenya, for example, girls have to give their body, they have to have sex in exchange for clean water. when you think of these girls and you know that they have to fetch water every day for their families, doesn’t it make you shiver? yes, we have a good life in europe. we have a better life here. but is it good enough? like most of you, i am mostly satisfied. but sometimes we are confronted with fact and we wonder, is this real? yesterday i went to buy a pair of jogging bottoms, because i thought i have to lose ten pounds, so that i don’t need to buy new dresses. but the salespeople could offer some pepper spray. how can you need that to go outside in europe to enjoy fresh air? another example, i have a teenage daughter. she cries and lays down on the ground because of menstruation pain. we were able to go to the moon; why haven’t we solved such a problem with science? and she says, ‘god must be sexist. why do i have menstruation and boys don’t?’ well, how do you answer that as a mother when all you have to give is a hug? we have science. god has nothing to do with this. we have the power to change the lives of women so that they can go out in the street to run without needing pepper spray and can enjoy education without exchanging their body for sex.
mr president, commissioner, madam president-in-office of the council: 'i worked for delhaize for 41 years and now we are sold like scrap' is the testimony of a worker at delhaize, a supermarket in my country, belgium. delhaize, which makes $2 billion in profits, wants to make all its stores franchise. why: to make workers work longer for up to 30% less pay. 30% off your salary! the goal: to save a billion euros on workers to give another billion euros to shareholders like blackrock and goldman sachs, those vultures. is this the economy of tomorrow, the quality of employment, the jobs of the future, the europe you want? we're talking about precarious contracts, more and more flexibility. burnout at the top without union backing. because obviously, in these franchises, union representation is not guaranteed. we will not allow you to impose this model, this european model, either in europe or in belgium! we will stand with the workers, at delhaize, but also in all other sectors of the economy, to ensure that the economy is really tailored to the needs of the people.
president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2022 frontex reported more than 330 000 illegal crossings into europe. 90% of them paid human traffickers. once in europe, you can enjoy the social security that our ancestors built and finance our taxpayers without having ever contributed to it yourself. all one has to do is apply for asylum. these are not real refugees at all, but economic opportunists and asylum fraudsters. what is the european union doing to protect our people? i don't know anything. on the contrary, they want to make it easier to get to europe. there is indeed an alternative to this failed and immoral policy. anyone who enters europe illegally must lose all right of asylum and be banned for life from entering our territory. asylum does not mean residence. by definition, shelter should be in the region of origin, not with us.
i have listened carefully to commissioner johansson's speech and i sincerely believe in her good intentions. but good intentions alone will not get us there. in late february, 16 people drowned off the coast of italy. five days ago, 14 people drowned again just off the coast of tunisia. this time without much media attention and without statements of support from eu commissioners. are we getting used to it? you never get used to this. at the moment, 2 400 people are being held in a 400-person reception centre in lampedusa. how human is that? i am glad to hear that commissioner johansson is going to tunisia, but she must not return empty-handed, because together we must destroy the business model of the smugglers before it destroys many more people. we need to send a strong signal.
madam president, cybercrime, investment fraud, corruption, human trafficking, organised crime affects a great many sectors, including environmental crime, which has risen to the third highest level of criminal activity in the world. environmental crime is multifaceted. wildlife waste trafficking, illegal dumping of substances, and often has very long-term consequences for human health, the environment, ecosystems, but also our economies, our security. and that's the paradox. while it generates as much profit as drug trafficking, the penalties are low and impunity is often at stake. the judiciary and the competent authorities, including the european public prosecutor's office, must be given the human and financial resources to successfully fight environmental crime. and if the right wing really wants to make this a priority in the fight against organised crime, why did it vote against all the opinions of the committees strengthening the directive on environmental crime? this directive is key. a little coherence would not be a bad thing and we are counting on all the political groups, but also on all the governments, to support it and to provide it with the necessary means.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is 20 months since the forbidden stories journalists' collective exposed the illegal use of the pegasus spyware. an intrusive surveillance which has nevertheless claimed more than 50 000 victims worldwide, thousands of european citizens who are affected, at least four european governments involved, but also all european governments who are users of this type of software and then, besides, spying by third countries as further evidence of foreign interference. and where are we 20 months later? well, the scale of the scandal, but also the silence of our governments and the commission, has triggered our work in the committee of inquiry. we have conducted dozens of hearings, victims, experts, missions in israel, hungary, poland, greece and next week in spain, where i sincerely hope that we can count on the full cooperation of the national authorities, unlike what we have experienced in the context of our previous missions. and 20 months later, well yes, the states involved, on the one hand, are not or little cooperative, but we must also recognize that it is all the european states that are not cooperating with our committee of inquiry. this lack of cooperation is a real slap in the face of european democracy. the aim of our committee of inquiry is to shed light on a serious situation of violation of citizens' fundamental rights. it is about enforcing and strengthening the european framework, but it is also about ensuring reparation for victims and making sure that legal frameworks and democratic safeguards are in place in our member states. and today, they too easily lock themselves behind this concept of national security that seems to allow everything. it is therefore time for the european commission to take up its responsibilities and initiate infringement procedures against those member states which do not cooperate with our institution.
the european parliament has been a party to the good friday agreement for 25 years, and it has been a means of achieving political objectives. what followed was stability with power sharing between former sworn enemies. however, brexit has brought with it new unrest and tensions. the aim was to prevent the good friday agreement from being undermined at all costs. after long and persistent discussions, the windsor agreement has finally brought about a good arrangement on the protocol for northern ireland. thank you to all the parties involved, including our negotiators, who were able to again jump over their own shadow 25 years later. political will and responsible leadership by the negotiators of the good friday agreement gave a whole generation the chance to grow up in peace and prosperity, the essence of what the eu has meant to us for 75 years now. my group sincerely hopes that, in the spirit of the good friday agreement, as a precious legacy of reconciliation, all parties concerned will embrace the new windsor agreement: as a starting point, offering new opportunities for citizens and businesses to build a prosperous future in northern ireland, as the impetus to restore the functioning of democratic institutions in northern ireland, and as the linchpin for a renewed positive cooperation between the uk and the eu, and that is in hopefully many more areas than is the case today.
(start of the intervention off the microphone) ...and other large italian cities prevented by the meloni government from recognizing the relationship of filiation between a same-sex couple and their children; the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal on mutual recognition of parentage in europe. the far right and the conservative right are destroying families and putting children at risk. this is not a national polemic imported into the european parliament, it is a question of the violation of the fundamental rights of these families. and we expect the italian government to change its law and bring it into line with article 3.1 of the convention on the rights of the child and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which provide that the best interests of the child must be a primary consideration in any decision concerning children. the bond between a child and his parents is unbreakable. the rights of lgbtqi+ families are unshakable and we will fight to the end in this parliament and in every member state to ensure that parental rights legally established in one state are recognised throughout the european union. a family is a family. a child is a child. love is love.
mr president, please, i would like to have it recorded that you made some deeply homophobic remarks saying that it is dangerous for children to have homosexual parents. i want that on record and the remark made to him, at the very least. it is unacceptable to speak like that in this assembly. this was already the case with a previous speaker. these points should be systematically identified, dealt with and banned in our assembly.
mr. president, thank you for your time. equal pay for equal work, that should be taken for granted. we shouldn't even be discussing this because it's clear that if we do the same work, we should be paid the same. more questionable is the question of whether we want to achieve equal pay for work of equal value between men and women. unfortunately, there are a number of professions that are not paid equally, for example, many women do cleaning and similar jobs that are not respected enough and that create a big pay gap between women and men. and you can see this in old age, when women have smaller pensions, when there are many more widows because they live longer than men. and that's where the biggest problem comes in. any honest work must be paid fairly and must be sufficient to live on.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that we are debating and voting today as normal. but, frankly, i was surprised by the views of some colleagues who believe that we don't need to have this legislation, that everything is settled between employers and unions, that it will create bureaucracy for smes. i come from a private background. it's aberrant what our colleagues are saying. it's clear that we now have a pay gap, for the same work done by women and men. and if in a democratic society there is no voluntary compliance, we have to intervene and regulate. that is why i think this is necessary and i think everyone should understand that there should be no difference in pay. not like my colleague said about the women in the service. we're talking about the same job, the same responsibility, the same amount of work. so equal work, equal pay for women and men. and i will gladly vote for this directive, but implementation is the responsibility of the member states. we all have to see that this directive is applied in our member state.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the adoption of the directive on pay transparency will benefit all workers and all businesses in europe. together, we need to raise awareness about this new directive to ensure that workers know their rights and that employers understand their obligations. in addition, this directive will contribute towards economic growth and competitiveness, close the gender pay, pension and employment gap – in line with the social pillar action plan – value women’s contribution to the labour market, and make sure that women are not left behind in the twin green and digital transition. in the current climate of post-pandemic crisis, the war against ukraine, high energy prices and inflation, it is even more important that gender-responsive approaches are at the centre of building the future of the union of equality. paying women and men equally should be part of our response. so i thank again the rapporteurs, all the meps who have worked for this day – i see evelyn here, maria, vera, dragoş, marc – but many, many more of course. and also i thank the czech presidency for having achieved a successful result and the european parliament for your ongoing support.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. we are therefore going to adopt a transparency directive to reduce the gender pay gap. that, in itself, is a good thing. but let's be honest here. this directive does not guarantee equal pay. the directive provides some transparency on wage differentials based on company averages. this transparency on the average gender pay gap can and must contribute to the fight for equal pay. but the directive is weak. the employer is only required to account for a wage differential of more than 5%. this means accepting a difference, a potential discrimination, of 5%! besides, it's not for immediate. member states have three years to implement the directive. and for companies with between 100 and 150 employees, the law will not be in force for eight years. companies with less than 100 employees, i.e. 99% of all companies, remain totally exempt from the obligation. and of course the central question will be compliance. the directive provides for a very vague system of fines for companies that do not play along. if we really want equal pay, we're gonna have to start enforcing it. equal pay for equal work. that should be self-evident. and that fight goes on.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it took years for the warnings from our assembly about the erosion of the rule of law in countries such as hungary and poland to trigger a european reaction. these years have allowed autocratic leaders to pass laws that suppress freedom, to take control of the media and the judiciary, and to divert european funds for private purposes. the drift of the rule of law in other countries, including greece today, must trigger a real european upheaval. these include illegal forced returns of migrants, illegal surveillance of political opponents, lawyers, journalists and members of civil society, and government interference in the judiciary. since 2008, the austerity measures imposed on greece and their consequences have led other european countries to fear a greek-style scenario in terms of public deficits. let us not now turn a blind eye to the democratic drift of the greek model. the epp does not want to import a national debate into the european parliament? what about the interference of governments, including yours, in our parliamentary work? we must not allow our european states to drift into illiberal ways! we must defend the democratic values of the european union.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, dear members of european parliament, i want to thank you for this interesting debate and i want to thank especially the rapporteurs for their constructive position during negotiations. when facing the climate crisis, every day of inaction costs us more than we can afford in economic and human terms. action cannot be delayed, and the implementation of our commitments must start as soon as possible. our energy sovereignty cannot be found in more fossil fuels. fit for 55 does fight for energy crisis. the agreements and the broad support voiced in the debate show once again the european union’s determination to become climate neutral by 2050, transform our economy and society, leave no one behind and ensure our energy security. in the face of strong headwinds mentioned in some contributions, we continue delivering on the european green deal for a sustainable future. as you may remember, the council wanted to keep the size to eur 59 billion only. with the agreement found between co-legislators, the fund will mobilise eur 86.7 billion. this was made possible thanks to the extension of the new emissions trading system to additional sectors, bringing additional revenues, as you know, and the agreement on national contributions of 25% of the total estimated costs. you will be voting tomorrow on the possibility of eur 87 billion at the service of inclusion and fair transition. moreover, member states will also use their national auction revenues from the new system for climate-related purposes, including to address social impacts. the social climate fund would also be a redistribution mechanism financed by the polluter pays principle. the 20% richest households are responsible for 32% of building and transport emissions, while the 20% of the poorest are only responsible of 9% of these emissions. the next step is swift implementation. we will benefit from as broad as possible a support by co-legislators and a speedy further adoption process. your vote tomorrow will be a major step forward in the fight against climate change, as these files, together with the rest of the fit for 55 files, will mark the future of the welfare of our environment, our economy and our citizens.
rapporteur. – mr president, there was quite some criticism on the package and on my report, there was criticism from the far right, and i think their basic argument was climate change is not so serious and i can’t follow that argument. it is serious, we are suffering from it and we need to act. there was criticism from part of the left and part of the greens and their main idea is we should have even higher targets, but nobody should realise, we seem to have a miracle system that nobody really has to change something, that is not possible, we all have to contribute. i am very grateful that some colleagues from the left and the majority of the greens, as well as all the centre groups, are in favour of the ets and in favour of the compromise and i think we will have a good majority tomorrow. thank you to everybody again that helped to build this compromise. finally, i want to refer to esther de lange because she’s really right. the work is not done tomorrow. the work of implementation starts tomorrow. we need to build up renewable energies and all the other technologies that we need for the transition faster. we need to give permissions faster. the net zero industrial act is a good basis, but we could even improve it and we need to follow the money. member states have the obligation, i repeat, the obligation to spend the money on purpose. we fought for this in the first phase of the ets for 20 years and now we have it. it’s a shall and not a should. and member states have the obligation to spend all the money from the second phase of the ets, also the national revenues which are almost twice as much as this eur 86 billion from the social climate fund, in accordance with social criteria. so let’s remind member states every day of this obligation so that the transition is really just.
mr president, it is clear that this house understands the importance of this agreement. the message is positive, and the risks are far greater if we do nothing. of course, some did not understand the way we worked. why not, this agreement does not belong to one side of this house, but to the whole parliament. we have all worked together to ensure that we have the best agreement that defends our climate, that defends families, that defends workers, the elderly, pensioners. and we are proud of that. all the political groups in this house have worked to get this agreement, often for long hours, not to mention the last weekend before christmas, when we all made sacrifices and saw what areas we could agree on. and i am proud, then, to have this agreement before us and i assure you that it has not been easy. proud that the social climate fund is the most significant social measure in this climate transition. and so i urge all my colleagues tomorrow to support this agreement. tomorrow's vote is crucial. we are making history. be part of this story. we are part of this agreement because we want to make this agreement not just about those of us who worked on it, but about the future of the whole european parliament.
the rapporteur. president, mohammed chahim was so creative with dutch proverbs, let me throw in one that i owe to my mother. she used to say, "can-i-not lies in the graveyard, and will-i-not lies next to it". i think that's really what those who were saying "we can't do it this way" meant. we'll see that reflected in the votes from the extremes, i think, tomorrow. but most colleagues underlined, to be honest, their favourite part of this package in the debate, but had a constructive attitude and for that i thank them. i mentioned in the beginning that this package, ets, cbam and the social climate fund is in a way the core triangle of fit for 55. since i have a new commissioner here that allows me and i believe she's from dubrovnik, so she knows a thing or two about navigation to say that this is the core part of the fit for 55 package, because it allows us to have a compass. we know where we're going when it comes to co2 reduction, we know what our task is, we know the point on the horizon for 2050 with this legislation. it also allows us hopefully to navigate the high seas. having a compass only is not enough. you need to know exactly where you are on the high seas, and the high seas globally are sometimes very windy, and cbam needs to protect us. cbam might not be enough. we might need to build on cbam, but at least we take a first step. third, a good navigator, a good sailor, knows that you have to avoid mutiny on your own ship. yes, indeed, that means taking all your people along, but then we have to be factual. the commission has shown that the social climate fund, even though it is relatively small, when used in the right way by member states will actually compensate the lowest income groups fully for the introduction of ets2. and we have built in several safeguards to make sure that ets doesn't come when the energy prices remain high. we need to be factual. do i then downplay the concerns that i have heard in this room ? no, i don't know. i hear them. i understand them, and the epp hears and understands them. that means that we need to work on energy prices, speeding up our independence from other providers. we need to make sure that the green deal provides jobs in europe. these electric buses are going to be built here, and not in china. finally, on the social, let's be very, very honest. when we did the reform of the ets, peter liese and others in this room last time, the price per ton was eur 5. it's now eur 100, and most of that stays in member states. that bloody well puts an obligation on member states to use that money well for the climate, but also socially.
the rapporteur. mr president and ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. yes, you need emotion, and i think esther, pieter and david have shown that you need emotion, but in a political sense you need to know when to take responsibility. i think the epp has taken responsibility at least four times if we look through our eyes in this room. but i would like to refer to something that was related to my report, and my colleague mato is still here, so i'll answer him. the concern for the outermost regions, we are aware of the facts, we have had a stronger formulation on the extent of the derogation in respect of the outermost regions. however, what needs to be emphasised is that the outermost regions have a privileged position in terms of emission allowances and in this context 100% of the price difference will be covered. the commissioner is here, but the council has not been very sensitive to this kind of proposal, but this is what we have managed to do, and i ask you to convey this concern, this response, to your colleagues. ladies and gentlemen, i want to stress once again that what we promised in our campaign programme as the epp group is that we are delivering on our climate pledges. i didn't hear anything concrete except populist criticism from other clubs who simply said "this is not good" but didn't offer any solution. this trial hasn't been going on since yesterday, and i think this is a pure usurpation of minutes or a tv headline about how we were against something. i don't think it's constructive and i don't like that kind of populism. in closing, i would like to say that throughout this process, we have taken into account the objective dimensions of the process in these challenging times. we have a shift in the concept of modern security, and this is an important piece that we have to keep building. if we can sail the seas, if we can fly the airplanes, then we must know how to build, and i'm always for building, not for tearing down. so let's build tomorrow when we vote.
the joint debate is now closed. the vote will be held tomorrow. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the fit for 55 package is a set of policies proposed by the european union to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030, but although these policies are designed to benefit the environment, they may present some challenges for the outermost regions (ors). possible problems for the ors include limited access to renewable energy sources, dependence on air and maritime transport which may be affected by proposed changes in emission standards, resulting in higher costs and reduced accessibility to transport for these regions, impacts on economic competitiveness due to the carbon border tax, as they have limited resources and are vulnerable to economic shocks and the impacts of climate change. we know, for example, that the 'fit for 55' package includes provisions for climate adaptation, but it is not clear how these measures will be implemented and how effective they will be for the ors. overall, while the 'fit for 55' package is an important step in tackling climate change, it is important to consider the potential impacts in all regions, including the ors. by addressing these concerns and working collaboratively, the eu can ensure that its climate policies are effective, equitable and inclusive.
in writing. the social climate fund aims to alleviate the socio-economic burden on the population from the energy efficiency requirements for buildings and transport after 2026 by supporting vulnerable households, transport users and micro-enterprises. in the negotiations, hungary made it a priority to ensure that vulnerable groups could receive support in the most effective way, on the best possible terms and to a greater extent. as a result of the successful negotiations, hungary's share will be 4,33% of the increase in the size of the resources, corresponding to eur 2,816 billion. the fact that 15% of annual resources can be transferred to shared management is particularly welcome. providing technical assistance is also a good thing, as it can help to promote smooth implementation. it is good that the ceiling for direct income support has been set at 37.5% instead of 35%, as our country considers this form of support essential in helping vulnerable groups. it is also regrettable that the compulsory national co-financing (25%) has been withdrawn. it's not going to be 50%, it's going to be half of that, but it would have been better to differentiate by level of development. we hope that hungary will actually get access to these resources!
in writing. the measures in the adjustment to objective 55 package are most certainly necessary to move towards a more sustainable world. but sustainability is precisely the consideration of several aspects: the environment, of course, but also the need to take into account social and economic aspects. the contribution from the social climate fund must be used to support the middle class, and especially the rural class. this contribution should be used in full to compensate for the effort made by citizens and to improve their quality of life on a daily basis. it is time for belgium to adopt a sustainable investment approach, which will benefit, in particular, from the improvement of railway services, especially in wallonia and the outermost regions. we cannot sanction behaviour (driving) when the state is unable to offer a credible, effective and inexpensive alternative. otherwise, a feeling of being a "second-class citizen" is created, the pressure on which increases, and this is experienced as contempt. the recent history of the proliferation of populist and extremist votes shows this. europe will provide €1.66 billion through the fund. i sincerely hope that belgium is prepared to make it into something that will support a concrete but sustainable transition.
the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr genscher, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. well, today china is a giant, economically and militarily. and china is a master strategist, pushing itself around the world. but disengaging from china is not a good thing. the eu must continue to embrace multilateralism and to act. moreover, ladies and gentlemen, our shift towards renewable energy is going to be a pudding without the rare earths, for which china has strategically made itself almost indispensable. we have to de-risk. we have to reduce the risks: by smart, open strategic autonomy; by rapidly diversifying our supply lines with major trade agreements; by not naively leaving critical infrastructure and strategic investments to china. it is wrong to give the impression that taiwan is a us-chinese matter, at the risk of being left alone to support ukraine. we cannot allow the transatlantic partnership to be dismantled. my group therefore calls for unity in our policy towards china.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank our rapporteur, mr janusz lewandowski, for the excellent work he has done and is doing. then we must draw attention to a negative aspect of the implementation of the partnership agreements, which allow cohesion policy to reach enterprises, smes and farmers, also through the european fund for rural development, the second pillar of the common agricultural policy and all these funds, as well as the european social fund: they are delaying because the partnership agreements are slow, and in many countries there will be no financial implementation in 2023, nor do we have all the approved programmes. i hope by 2024 everything is on high speed, because the economy needs it. the regions, the municipalities and all the beneficiaries are waiting for these funds. and it is unacceptable that the avalanche of billions that the member states have is not being properly applied. it is urgent that this application be made. in addition, joint projects are needed, and that is why we need to strengthen common european programmes, to review the multiannual financial framework and to finance this budget in line with the challenges and expectations of the population, and for this we need new own resources, new revenue.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, today, when the european parliament is presenting its guidelines for next year’s european budget, in which we are defining our key priorities for the upcoming negotiations, everyone must be aware that what we are effectively doing is setting our level of ambition and looking to provide the answers to the challenges lying ahead. we call upon the commission and the council to be bold and rise to the occasion by presenting a reinforced eu budget that can finance the new priorities and ensure the well-being of our citizens and our economy. we are clear in saying that we need a positive mff revision with additional resources to respond to citizens’ needs, continue supporting ukraine and frontline countries and deal with the impact of inflation. for all new priorities, we need fresh resources and no cuts should be made on cohesion policy and existing programmes. moreover, we should increase the financial allocation to eu programmes, taking into consideration the impact of inflation to allow them to reach their expected targets. this means that an erasmus exchange student should receive more money in order to keep the programme inclusive and accessible. at the same time, we need to modernise our economy, support smes and our farmers, and make sure our citizens are protected by investing more in our defence industry, in an inclusive digital and green transition and in increasing our energy independence. the s&d is calling for a responsible budget that will ensure an effective response to global geopolitical challenges, ensure stability in these highly turbulent times and build the foundation for a prosperous and secure europe for future generations. the eu budget and mff revision should go hand in hand and be up to the challenge. we therefore strongly support the rapid implementation of the eu migration and asylum pact – while clearly saying no to building walls with european funds at the external borders of the union – knowing fully well that there are other alternative solutions that can ensure better border protection. this is a key issue and a red line for our group. we will therefore not be able to support the guidelines if epp and ecr put forward a text that goes against the humane and effective approach. în continuare, permiteți-mi să mă adresez în limba română, întrucât peste tot în europa cetățenii trebuie să fie informați și implicați în discuțiile privind bugetul european. am reușit în aceste propuneri ale parlamentului să avem referiri concrete la necesitatea de a extinde spațiul schengen cu românia, sprijinirea statelor aflate în proximitatea zonei de conflict, inclusiv a republicii moldova, pentru care am solicitat urgentarea fondurilor de preaderare, finanțarea strategiei europene pentru regiunea dunării sau a infrastructurii din zonele periferice ale europei, precum zona moldovei. bugetul ue trebuie să fie reflecția a ceea ce putem face mai bine împreună la nivel european. construim mai mult și mai consistent acțiunile noastre comune pentru a ne proteja cetățenii și a le asigura un nivel de trai mai bun. dear colleagues, we need to show that we are capable of building a budget that provides adequate resources for the future we want to build together here in europe.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president mr rainer wieland mr commissioner mr hahn i call on you, commissioner, to propose urgently a revision of the multiannual financial framework. as you know very well, the margins for the 2024 budget are estimated at 336 million out of 160 billion, or 0.2%. they are even lower than those in the 2023 budget, which were already very restricted. this leaves us, ladies and gentlemen, with very little flexibility to support our fellow citizens as we would like, who are feeling the consequences of the pandemic on the one hand, and the war in ukraine on the other. this leaves us very little room to finance our investment priorities, commissioner, in the strategic areas of energy independence, youth, the ecological and digital transition and sovereignty, dear to my colleague valérie hayer. if the european union is to meet the major challenges we face and respond to the concerns of our citizens, we must have a budget to match. a review of the multiannual financial framework is therefore essential, commissioner. my second point is that i regret that in this text, which sets out our priorities for the 2024 budget, my colleagues from the epp, the ecr and the idf are still trying to finance walls with the european budget, touting this proposal as the miracle solution to migration. i have said it before and i will say it again: the migration issue will not be solved by walls. we must build a genuine european response, a response of responsibility and solidarity. this is what the european budget must finance. that is what we are proposing, ladies and gentlemen, with the pact on asylum and migration.
on behalf of the left mr president, mr hahn, the message from the european parliament, as we have said with broad agreement in the committee on budgets and i hope it will be voted with broad agreement in the house, is that we need a more ambitious budget. 2024 must be the first year we implement a budget with a revised multiannual financial framework, which allows us to have more funds for cohesion, more funds for mitigating the social inequalities that have increased dangerously, without sacrificing our goals for the green transition, for the digital transformation, for research, for innovation, for boosting investment at european level and at the same time respecting the rule of law and with a proportionate sharing of responsibility for addressing the challenges of refugees and migration in all member states, mr hahn. it is not possible for my country, greece, to become a reception area and for the other member states which do not have external borders with the european union and other countries to say 'cut your throat', 'take some money and cut your throat'. the commission must respect proportionality and all member states must share responsibility. we have ambitions, we are calling for a stronger budget and we expect the commission to come to our side and not to advocate the cuts that the council is constantly calling for.
mr president over the past months, it has been said on numerous occasions that the 24th budget must be one that meets the challenges facing the union and its member states. these include preventing illegal migration and protecting borders. for years now, member states have been protecting not only their own borders, but also those of the eu, at the expense of their own budgets. it is therefore highly justified and legitimate that border protection should finally receive support from the annual budget of the union. hungary and the hungarian government have been asking for years for the union to contribute financially to the protection of the external borders. protecting our borders is not only a guarantee of our security, but also an essential means of safeguarding the european values we have heard so much about. it is therefore regrettable that parliament, with this report, is continually concerned that the 24 member states do not have the resources from the eu budget for border protection. this needs to be changed and even extended to non-eu countries such as serbia or north macedonia, which are the main migration routes.
mr president, through the guidelines on the budget of the european union for 2024, the european parliament gives a clear message. we give a message of development, of support. the guidelines put forward by the parliament’s general rapporteur, janusz lewandowski, will allow us to support small and medium-sized enterprises, to invest into research, into innovation, to give a perspective to enterprises and to citizens in europe. they will help us to modernise our economies, to make them more modern and more competitive and to succeed in the transition to a green economy. they also lay emphasis on youth, and it is clear that young people are a priority for europe and they are a priority for the budget. i would like to congratulate our general rapporteur, janusz lewandowski, for the clear guidelines that he has put forward, and i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs of other political groups for working together with him in a very constructive manner. this is a first step in the budgetary procedure, and we are looking forward to working with the european commission on the basis of the draft budget that the european commission will put forward to give a clear signal that we are developing europe. in addition to this, we have to continue supporting ukraine. ever since the beginning of the war, for the whole duration of 2022 and also 2023, we have financially made great efforts and were able to support ukraine. this was right. we will do this also for the year 2024, and we will also stand by the side of farmers and any other categories of enterprises or people in the european union that have to adapt to the new reality in ukraine.
mr president, commissioner, i believe that after these years of upheaval, what we are asking for when we look to 2024 is that it be a quiet year. and what we need as a parliament next year is to pass as many proposals as possible and to close on a high note a legislative period which has obviously been complicated. because we're talking about key proposals that will define our transportation network, energy interconnections, the tools we're going to implement to achieve climate neutrality, how we train our youth or how we help businesses in the digital transition, and even how we welcome migrants and refugees. and all of this is what's at stake in the coming months. for all that, we have to be prepared from a budgetary point of view. that is precisely why i think that the committee on budgets is looking at 2024 with a certain budgetary anxiety - i would say - because we are aware that at the moment when we closed the financial framework in the middle of the pandemic and, after the effort that was made with the next generation eu funds, it was not appropriate to tighten the rope any further, but we also knew that the financial framework was not going to be enough. time has proved us right. every new need or decision we have had to take, and that the commission and the member states have taken, has meant opening up the budget and we have had to decide which programmes we cut in order to be able to fund new ones, reaching absurd cases such as cutting research funds and digital transition policies to finance semiconductor programmes. so, and i conclude, mr president - i know i have no time left - we need to be consistent with reality. we need the commission to come up with a good proposal and the council to take it as a priority.
mr president, the budget of the european union, especially in the context of the sharp rise in the cost of living which is suffocating people and workers, and which is inseparable from the eu's policy options, must contribute to promoting investment, improving public services, supporting the productive and strategic sectors, promoting food and energy sovereignty, creating jobs with rights and increasing wages and pensions, combating poverty, social exclusion and growing inequalities, and protecting the environment and biodiversity. this requires a significant budgetary increase in line with each member state's gross national income and a deepening of its redistributive function, supporting the promotion of effective convergence in economic and social progress between member states. parliament continues to postpone the discussion, which we have proposed, on the measures to be taken in the face of the harmful consequences of the increase in the interest rate set by the ecb. well, this discussion is also an opportunity to highlight this issue and to mobilise resources for measures to respond to the serious housing problems, aggravated by rising interest rates and speculation. we reject the escalation of the militarization and interventionism of the european union which is taking place and the increase in the budgetary appropriations for the corresponding headings. the people want peace, not war. let us mobilize these resources to meet the needs of the peoples for the development of countries, for the establishment of relations of solidarity, cooperation and peace.
mr president, the european union budget is the money of the european citizens and we must not forget that. our job is to allocate money according to the needs of the people, not the governments or the various parties. the citizens of europe no longer want to be robbed and cheated, no longer want to pay the full cost of crises, climate change and even putin's war. i asked to increase this budget for the fight against corruption. billions of euros are poured into the pockets of the corrupt, the corrupt who finance parties, leaders, television or anti-european protests, governments against their own citizens. it is a mockery of the honest people of our countries and we have a duty to stop it urgently, to catch more corrupt people, very importantly, to recover the damage, to confiscate the assets of the oligarchs. the eppo shall ensure that all of them comply with union sanctions. otherwise, it's another way of embezzling money from european citizens. we need to help moldova even more, where the criminal oligarchs are just putin's tools against the union. we also called for sanctions against these oligarchs. if we don't wake up soon, we're all going to pay to vote.
mr president, almost 20 million children are growing up in poverty in the european union. that's about one in four who risk an empty toaster every day. and that is what the european budget should be for. but many of us come here saying, "oh, sorry, there's no money". yet there is money. since 2020, the richest 1% have pocketed about 45% of all wealth produced in europe 45%! in belgium, my country, meanwhile, the richest 1% own as much as 70% of the population. so the money's there. but i see hypocrisy on the part of those who say: 'we have no money' - 'crocodile tears' - because yesterday, in a vote in this same parliament, you rejected a proposal to encourage a tax on millionaires, which would have finally taxed the rich. then what is it? we complain about the lack of money, but at the same time we don't want to tax our friends? this is unacceptable! you know very well where the money is. go and get him! it's time to go get him. because people will no longer accept that the millionaires, the billionaires of europe pocket, collect, while it is still up to the people to pay and work without being paid as they should be.
i have to say that i am very pleased. mr prime minister! the refugee and migrant crisis in europe is once again spiraling out of control. we see women, men and even children drowning in the mediterranean every day. we see time and again that the smugglers and despots who live in our neighbourhood in turkey, in north africa, are getting richer and richer. and we are experiencing the cultural impact that so many welfare migrants -- which most of those who come to europe are, when we look at the asylum rates -- have on the continent, on the populations of european countries, on cohesion and on community. that is why we in the danish people's party and the id group have long had a solution that solves the problem. we know this: the australian model, where you have a push-back and where you have asylum treatment in third countries, will effectively address the challenges of crime, of illegal migration and of the cultural impact that this has on the european continent. we in the danish people's party are pleased that the danish government, which is made up of good colleagues here from the european parliament, such as the danish social democrats, the left and the moderates who sit on renew, is now officially advocating the introduction of a kind of australian model at european level. we therefore hope that the danish government's proposals will be given a boost in the council, because we know how hopeless this parliament is when it comes to tackling the real problems of the european migrant challenge. the problem is that the weakest refugees, the most vulnerable, those who cannot afford the smugglers, those who cannot make it through the desert, all those who really need our protection, we leave them in the camps, whereas the strong, those who have the means, those who can help the smugglers with their hideous business model, they are given far too much access to europe. i hope at least that luxembourg will wake up and follow the example of denmark.
madam president, mr prime minister, hello and welcome. we're on different political sides. we're defending the working class. you are rather in favour of tax evasion by bankers, but i think you have taught the european commission and some of my colleagues an important lesson, and i thank you for that. because you know the european commission has talked about banning tiktok, which they said is "collecting data". now, that's probably true, we don't trust this multinational, but google, facebook are not doing any better. i tried to google shoes last night. this morning, i found myself with a newsfeed filled with ads for new shoes. well, you can't trust these people either. but, oddly enough, the european commission is not calling for a ban on facebook, google and others. in fact, let's be honest, when the commission calls for a ban on tiktok, it obeys the united states. the united states is afraid of tiktok because a lot of people, especially young people, now prefer tiktok to facebook and others. and the united states would like us to limit ourselves to using american products, to limit ourselves to consuming american information so that we become completely dependent on them. but in a vision of european strategic autonomy, this vision has no place. the commission obeys, but you, you said, i don't ban tiktok just because it's chinese. you're right, we need to protect our data from all social networks. we're not going to be lectured by some american boomers who don't know whether tiktok connects to a wifi or not. frankly, europe is better than that.
madam president, as i promised, i will stick to my two minutes, and prime minister, great to be here with you and to discuss europe’s issues and i want to thank you for your great leadership. finally you will have the opportunity to speak in front of the full plenary in a couple of minutes and we will hear your final conclusions. the think tank of the liberals – ‘overview’ – this month is entitled ‘facing permacrisis: to stay the same, the eu needs to change’. i couldn’t agree more. this impact of the coronavirus, inflation crisis, energy crisis, certainly the war in ukraine: only those events in the last three years are enough to shake up our perceptions of europe of tomorrow. let me start by thanking you on your leadership on migration. you spoke at length about migration. after years of deliberation, compromises, redrafting, we need to make sure that we finally have a place where clear, fair and humane rules of migration are in place for europe. building higher walls only provides a false sense of security. another extremely important and long-awaited segment that finally needs to find resolution is achieving full integration of europe: a better integrated single market capable to resist the competitive distractions; a strong and completed eurozone; but most importantly, the schengen area – we simply cannot continue talking about equality in the union if we don’t have all the member states part of the schengen area. and third, necessary is to making a full use of the rule of law framework. lastly, we cannot punish the countries aspiring to join the european union for our need of reforming its infrastructure. europe is not complete without having the balkans, and europe is not going to be complete without having ukraine. together, we can move forward with our friends and partners, with aligning to the european policies and thank you again for taking leadership on many of them.
madam president, this is a very important debate about the future of europe. this is a very important debate and i cannot hear the answer for the very fundamental question: what kind of future do you want for europe? do you want to build on the foundation of the european history, on greek philosophers, roman law, christian culture, or do you want to continue with your politics, which led us to no-go zones in sweden, burning suburbs in paris, terrorist attacks in germany and spain? so maybe you should focus on the legacy of john paul ii, copernicus, chopin. maybe you should go back to the roots before we’re going to discuss the future. so maybe you should be like poland – with the lowest unemployment in european union. maybe you would like to be number one as the safest place in europe. so if you want to have a future for europe, be like poland, because poland is the future.
i have to say, madam president, mr. prime minister, i respect your speech. it was refreshingly free. i was happy. the number of crises in the world raises questions about europe's future foreign policy. the key question is: how must the eu be structured to respond successfully to these crises? the reflex response - also from you, mr bettel - is always: more eu, more centralism and at the same time a blindly hostile attitude and commitment, whereas all that is required is real politics and pragmatism. the eu is today - let us face it - an economically sick giant that is losing ground globally, and politically a dwarf that no one really takes seriously anymore. mrs von der leyen learned this painfully and embarrassingly only two weeks ago in beijing, and a few days later the german foreign minister, who is being laughed at internationally anyway, also learned it in the same place. the eu must finally learn to pursue a foreign policy guided by a balance of interests and pragmatic realism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. otherwise the eu will be the laughingstock of the international community. that 's how it should be . (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, mr prime minister, thank you, dear xavier, first of all, of course, i congratulate you on joining the grand duchy of luxembourg's tradition of defending european values and the european spirit, and defending minorities in particular. that being the case, mr prime minister, i think it is really essential that you also take part in a strategic autonomy which is not open but firm and solid in different sectors for europe: food, energy, defence - three sectors which are essential for the development of the whole of europe. i did not hear you, mr prime minister - and i am disappointed - i did not hear you speak about the agricultural policy, which is essential. how can we succeed in climate change policy without talking about farmers, the men and women who fight every day to feed us? i think it is really important that, beyond the values we defend, we defend every european, that, wherever they are geographically, every european considers europe an opportunity, and that we give them all our support wherever they are. this is how we will defend the european union.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you for inviting me today to the discussion on this important topic, which is closely linked to the european green deal and its environmental and climate objectives. this is a particularly important debate for the swedish presidency. as you know, sweden has been vocal about the need to phase out pfas for a long time. pfas are hazardous for people, animals and the environment, and they are known to persist in nature for a long time. phasing out pfas is therefore crucial to protect our environment and health. fulfilling our climate goals is our duty. we have to work towards achieving a high level of health and environmental protection in line with the treaties. in its 8th environmental action programme, the eu committed to achieving six priority objectives, among which is pursuing a zero-pollution ambition, including for air, water and soil, and protecting the health and well-being of europeans. these ambitious objectives include tackling the impact of harmful chemicals on the environment and human health. that is why initiatives such as the chemicals strategy for sustainability and the biodiversity strategy are so important. protecting the environment should go hand in hand with preserving the competitiveness of our economy. that is why we need our industry and businesses to be part of the green transition and to find substitutes to dangerous chemicals. in the end, this will bring us the competitive advantages. reach has been at the core of our chemical policy for almost two decades. as a legislation framework, reach has also become a global reference for tackling chemicals in other countries and regions. as we wait for the commission to table its proposal for a revised reach, we should maintain the same level of ambition and ensure that it remains one of the pillar of our internal market. you can be certain that the council will stand ready to work on the proposal as soon as it is tabled. a revised reach is also the main tool to deliver on the chemicals strategy for sustainability. the strategy presents a new approach to harmful chemical substances, such as pfas. that is why the recently updated drinking water directive already sets a limit for the amount of pfas that can be found in water for human consumption. that directive also requires member states to monitor this limit. the council is also happy to see that pfas are included in the list of pollutants in the recent proposal amending the water framework directive, the groundwater directive and the environmental quality standards directive. the council will start discussions on these proposals very soon. thank you for your attention and i am looking forward to the debate.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear minister, honourable members of parliament, i think we can all agree that the commission, parliament and council share the ambition to keep our water and soil clean and free from pollutants that harm human health and the environment. the commission is committed to the green deal and the chemicals strategy for sustainability and to moving towards a toxic-free environment. these commitments must be in line with our individual and collective commitments towards the un sustainable development goals, including the one health approach and sustainable consumption and production. we cannot speak about forever pollutants without mentioning per- and polyfluorinated substances. these were familiar as pfas. they are a major concern for human health and the environment. ten years ago, we took action on one of these substances found in surface waters by including it under the water framework directive. now that we know other such substances are also harmful, the commission has proposed adding 24 more of these chemicals to the list of priority substances under the directive. in january, five national authorities also initiated an eu restriction on pfas as a group of substances under the reach regulation. given the complexity of the proposal, this will be a long process, but i believe we all share the same goal, to strike a balance between two legitimate public interests: the need to protect public health, the environment and vulnerable groups, and the need to secure european investments in certain technologies for decarbonisation. the public consultation by echa on the restrictions of these substances is open and it is key that all relevant stakeholders provide sound evidence. this is a highly complex case covering many different uses and stakeholders, and the complexity may impact the time it will take echa prepare their opinion. the commission proposal will follow after we receive the echa opinion. and this brings me to the reach revision and to your request to strengthen chemical legislation immediately. the reach revision will be a targeted revision. we do not intend to rework this legislation or change its fundamental architecture. as it stands, we have knowledge gaps in reach that must be addressed, notably on certain critical hazard classes. that includes information on substances that cause cancer or adversely affect the nervous system, the immune system or the hormone system. this is also a large group of chemicals, polymers, that are exempted from the reach registration process. we are looking at a registration obligation for the estimated 40 000 polymers of particular and potential concern. sixteen years of implementation of reach has shown us it is world-leading legislation, but at the same time we can make this regulation stronger and more efficient while simplifying and streamlining processes. reach is a science-based regulation with evidence at its core. in fact, its main founding principle was that ‘no data – no market’ principle. substances should not be authorised for the market without data on their safety. gathering knowledge upfront will enable us to take better and faster decisions. simplifying how the authorisation process works is another key goal, to boost innovation and the production of safer and more sustainable chemicals. for our legal framework to become more effective in preventing harm to health and the environment, we are also looking at extending the generic approach to risk management. this means looking at groups of products and types of hazardous chemicals like endocrine disruptors. priority will be given to uses where citizens and the environment are highly exposed. reach is all about results and if we want results, we need effective enforcement. the revision also aims to improve enforcement by setting up an audit system, increased transparency and frequent checks. this would lead to better protection as well as a level playing field for eu industry. now, on the timing of the proposal, i want to reassure you that we are working at full speed on the revision of the legal text and the impact assessment. we aim to present the proposal to the co-legislators as soon as it is ready, by the last quarter of this year at the latest. now a few words on soil. the eu soil strategy aims to prevent contamination and to restore contaminated and degraded soils. in the context of the upcoming soil health law proposal, the commission is considering provisions to identify, register and remediate contaminated sites. we intend to adopt the proposal in june. in addition, the eu mission under horizon europe, called ‘a soil deal for europe’, is tackling soil decontamination and soil restoration. this ambitious research and innovation programme includes the demonstration of solutions in living labs and soil monitoring. this is all about types of soil contamination in both urban and rural areas. honourable members, we need your support to achieve the ambitious objectives of the european green deal under this mandate. we look forward to working with you and i now look forward to hearing your views.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a former epp coordinator in the beca committee, public health is always at the heart of my concerns. ensuring a healthy living environment free from exposure to harmful chemicals is essential. that is where we are clearly lacking. many of these harmful substances are no longer produced by our environment, or even by the human body. the science is crystal clear: exposure to harmful chemicals is the cause of certain cancers, fertility problems, low iq and high cholesterol. of course, everyone knows about pfas, but it's obviously about much more than just this group of substances. for the most part, we don't even know how harmful they are to public health, let alone what their cumulative long-term effects are and what the cocktail effects are. i can't do this anymore. let us first look at the substances already on the market. a family approach based on scientific evidence and faster processes should allow earlier intervention when public health is identified as being at risk. any non-essential use must be discarded immediately. but the best way to prevent exposure to harmful and carcinogenic non-biodegradable chemicals is to simply ensure that they cannot be brought to market, with a reverse burden of proof. substances should only be placed on the market if it is established that they do not pose a threat to public health. that is why it is necessary to put public health firmly at the centre of our concerns. the silent killer pandemic is something we need to address now.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear commissioner and dear colleagues, the last few years have been quite a wild ride in the crypto world. sometimes – and my colleagues would confirm that as well – it felt like a wild ride also here in this parliament when we are negotiating the transfer of funds regulation. we started work on this file just after the total crypto market cap hit its third trillion. trading was feverish, lobbying was feverish, and many people wanted to make sure that we do not harm this growth sector, which was also never our intention. things look quite different right now. at one point, cryptos collectively lost almost two-thirds of their market value. although this year there has been some recovery, the sector is reeling from high-profile scandals and bankruptcies. some very normal people that could be your neighbours have lost a lot. a lot more people have come around to the idea now that crypto—assets need normal regulations. that is what we have been working on in parliament and council, together with the commission. i am firmly convinced that the package we are now debating today is a good package. mica and tfr together will make holding and trading crypto—assets safer for ordinary people and more difficult for criminals, terrorists and for sanction-evaders. let me highlight a few points: first of all, our new european legislation does not say that crypto—assets are bad, or that they are good. it does not say that holders and traders of crypto—assets are bad or good. this legislation simply seeks to regulate a sector that is still quite new and dynamic, but it takes a neutral approach to the merits of the sector. secondly, the rules that we agreed upon between parliament and council are not revolutionary. i would even say that there are a lot less revolutionary than some people believe crypto—assets to be. ninety-nine per cent of our work has been to translate rules that have already existed for many years for the traditional banking sector to the crypto world. we have translated the existing travel rule from traditional finance to crypto. we have translated existing provisions on fighting money laundering and terrorist financing from traditional finance to crypto. colleague berger with his file created rules on transparency and disclosure, on consumer protection and the prevention of market abuse. all this stuff is standard as every entrepreneur and every eu country knows. let me mention two specific issues from my own file. first of all, the threshold for application of the travel rule, or rather the absence of a threshold. it was the slovenian council presidency that first removed the eur 1 000 threshold from the commission proposal. in parliament, we follow the member states. i am convinced we are doing the right thing here. colleagues, a eur 1 000 threshold is really quite meaningless in the crypto world. there is high price volatility. smurfing and opening or closing accounts is so easy. just like banks, crypto-asset service providers would anyway need to check linked transactions, so even with a threshold in place, small amounts cannot be transferred without bureaucracy. most importantly, it’s often in the small amounts that crime is hidden. we have seen evidence of fundraisers from terrorists with amounts of around eur 100. we have seen evidence of payments on child pornography sites with amounts around eur 10 or eur 20. if we would not include the small transfers, we will not be doing enough. another contentious issue has been the partial inclusion of unhosted wallets. again, the member states made the first move in the general approach. the point is the following: we already agree that crypto—asset service providers, the banks and trading houses of crypto need regulation. we also concluded that peer-to-peer transfers, the decentralised part of the crypto world, should stay out of the scope, even if i understand that my s&d colleague paul tang disagrees. but what about the interaction between crypto wallets hosted by casps and the unregulated private wallets? in order to prevent a massive loophole, we decided to apply the travel rule to those interactions as well. this is not fundamentally different from identifying yourself when making cash deposits or withdrawals from your bank account. will this create a dual system and push crypto holders and traders into the unregulated world? i don’t think so. the verification burden on casps is very limited. we are not going to be as strict as some other countries are already today. colleagues, there is more to say, but i think my time for now is up and i’m looking forward to our debate. i will be happy to get back to you at the end after hearing your observations. and i also extend my thanks to my co-rapporteur urtasun, who is amazing, to all the shadows and to my political group advisor, jannes de jong, thank you very much. and the collaboration with valeria.
rapporteur. – mr president, colleagues, thank you very much for this debate and for all the excellent points you have made. let me just pick up one or two issues: throughout the negotiations, some people kept insisting that crypto is actually much safer than traditional finance because of the transparency of the blockchain and, therefore, regulation was not really necessary. i disagree with that. the blockchain can indeed offer transparency, and some old crypto hacks have been resolved years later as a result. however, there are a lot of innovations to reduce this transparency, not least mixers and tumblers. in some cases, casps themselves do a lot of mixing and tumbling as well. furthermore, if you can identify the flow of crypto on the blockchain, but cannot identify the people involved, you see only half of the picture. i therefore see the travel rule as proportionate and compatible to the blockchain. again, peer-to-peer transactions remain outside of the scope of defi. another issue has been the concern to push crypto out of the eu. again, i don’t think these laws will do that. we see all the serious countries in the world taking big steps to regulate crypto. some less democratic places go even further and ban most crypto activities. it is clear to me that if crypto wants to be taken seriously as an innovative fintech sector, it should also accept serious regulation like what we are doing now. i think most countries around the world agree with that. that was enough discussion, and we have experienced a lot of positive contributions. i would like to thank all of you who are involved in this file for the excellent cooperation. also, the french presidency has been very supportive, with a lot of capable people. i want especially to thank commissioner mcguinness and her team. together, we will expect and hope for a very – i’m so happy that the council is back – positive outcome tomorrow, and broad support so that we can make crypto safer for our citizens and much more difficult for criminals.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, in particular for the months of work in which we struggled with the rapporteurs to develop a common position. and in all these months the ecr and id members of parliament have been distinguished by one thing above all: their absence. they then voted against the mandate in committee and today they want to repeal the mandate. i do not want to stress that this will significantly delay negotiations with the council. but it is clear that ecr and id are not interested in any european response to migration and asylum. instead, they want to continue to use discrimination and fear to capture voices. it is only marginally interesting in this context to find in the plenary a word of praise for italy and meloni, whose party is a member of the ecr. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be able to accept it. europe needs solutions to migration and asylum with clear rules for control and solidarity, based on our values of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we reject the idea of ecr and id and give parliament a strong position in the negotiations with the council!
president, the european union is apparently doing everything it can to quietly push through the eu migration pact. in the libe committee, members were unlawfully denied sufficient time to study this plan in depth. now they want parliament to give a mandate without a vote or a debate. why should this parliament not be allowed to play its part? this eu migration pact offers no solution to the migration crisis, but will instead only exacerbate the asylum chaos. the present screening regulation provides all sorts of procedural safeguards for economic success seekers, while depriving member states of the right to protect their borders. we're not even allowed to talk about illegal immigration anymore. i guess we'll have to call it "irregular" now. member states can no longer dictate how they protect our borders. biometric security is being banned. illegal migration is simply replaced by legal migration. the citizen has a right to know what awaits him with these insane migration plans of the european union. this is the age of demography. africa's population is going from one to four billion. we are only at the beginning of a migratory invasion that could destroy our unique civilization. instead of offering concrete solutions, the european union is literally saying: we need migration. the european union does not want to curb migration, but on the contrary to encourage it. we must at least have a debate on this as is proper in a parliamentary democracy.
mr. president, i have to go. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the stability and growth pact is necessary if we are to maintain confidence in our single currency, confidence between countries and also confidence in the institutions and policies of the european union. in times of crisis, greater flexibility is needed. but this cannot go on indefinitely, or the problems will only grow. it is also unfair that some countries overspend while others cover their debts. responsible politicians also think about future generations, so they direct money to the right projects for growth and stability, while limiting spending to quickly score political points. i would like to congratulate you all on the occasion of the europe day, which is meant to preserve peace, stability, cooperation and also mutual trust.
mr president, commissioner, honourable members, first of all, happy europe day and happy romania, which is celebrating its independence day today. it is good that we are discussing the stability pact on europe day itself and yes, we need changes in the stability pact. but have you thought, madam minister, commissioner, about a solidarity pact? how can we establish this stability pact if we do not think about the fact that social cohesion has not increased, that we still have poor regions, that we still have children in poverty. we can't do the bed of procust, because they're differently developed countries. i also want to tell you that now, on europe day, the european union is registering a big failure, namely: we have a fragmented market and yes, romania is not in schengen. we let austria fly like a wild horse into the european union and destroy the european union project, creating these injustices for european citizens. when we make a stability pact, we have to think about how to make a single market, how to enable member states to get out of poverty in poor areas and, above all, think, commissioner, that there is subsidiarity for fiscal policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while acknowledging the effort made in trying to overcome the rigidity of the present european financial rules, we must stress that the commission's choices do not take into account the alteration of a scenario strongly affected by war, inflation and the energy crisis, with the collateral effects in economic terms that have resulted. focusing on green, digital and defence transitions, while ignoring these priorities in the calculation of the deficit/gdp ratio and thus in the new rules of european governance, would be a political error of assessment. to boost our competitiveness we need a sound and adequate economic policy, accompanied by rules which should be tailored to the needs of the member states. therefore, excluding investment expenditure from the calculation of target expenditure on which compliance with the parameters, including those of the pnrr on digital and green transactions, is the way to go, to limit the constraints that prevent the full development of our country's economic assets. the hope is that the final text will be improved during the negotiations to achieve a better balance between the two factors of stability and growth, both of which are necessary.
mr president, commissioner, you are therefore back with austerity, with the stability pact. it is austerity 2.0, more power for the european commission, lighter sanctions and a permanent bargaining between neoliberal reforms and budget cuts. i am surprised that there are socialist colleagues who applaud you, because you come back with your ridiculous criteria of 3% and 60% - that the budget deficit cannot exceed 3% of gdp and that the public debt cannot exceed 60%. you don't even know why. you don't know that. why 60 percent, not 40 or 80? japan is at 250%, i think. you invent anything because it serves only one purpose, to privatize and break our public services, to force countries to privatize, to sell our schools, our pensions, our railways to the highest bidder. and our health care, let's talk about it: austerity has been a disaster. we will resist this austerity 2.0.
the rapporteur. madam president, mr president of the court of auditors, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow parliament will therefore vote in plenary on whether or not to grant discharge for 2021 to 55 european institutions. it is obviously a major political act that parliament carries out every year in connection with the court of auditors, whose work and rigour i would once again like to commend. these votes will therefore allow us to validate the management of funds, transparency, but also to sanction abuses, ineffective policies and misuse of public money. this year, for the commission's discharge, we have launched a new type of two-part approach: the first, devoted to the traditional budgetary framework, and the second to the recovery and resilience facility. and i want to welcome and thank both our rapporteurs for their effective work on this. as i have already said, i have a number of concerns about the implementation of the union budget. this error rate is still very significant in the areas of competitiveness, cohesion and high-risk expenditure. the need to respect the rule of law if we want to benefit from european funds, but also the absorption capacity of the states which remains problematic, as well as a delay in the digitisation of audit and control procedures. yes, we must make the use of 'data mining' more widespread and systematize the use of new technologies to organise controls, develop a database of all beneficiaries of european funds in order to better fight fraud. as for the frr, this tool was put in place to respond urgently to the post-covid economic crisis that we have been through. it is far from perfect, we know, but it has the merit of existing, of functioning. better controls on projects, including on milestones and their economic performance, should be considered. the policy recommendations made in the discharge will allow for improvements to be made when it is revised in 2024. we can only be fully effective if we have our accounts in order and the funds are managed optimally. every euro must be used efficiently and effectively in promising projects, policies with real important effects. our credibility and that of the european project will therefore depend on our actions. in conclusion, i would like to mention the discharge for the 33 agencies, as renew was the rapporteur this year, and i would first like to thank the agencies for their commitment to the discharge process and their transparency in relation to the requests of the committee on budgetary control. we have put forward a number of priorities for our agencies. better human resources policy such as gender balance, work-life balance, geographical balance, but also prevention, management of conflicts of interest, the importance of transparency, the fight against corruption, clear public procurement rules, cyber protection, the development of best practices, and finally synergies between the agencies themselves. the role of agencies is essential to the implementation of european policies, and i am pleased that this year we recommended granting discharge to all agencies.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, once again this year the libe committee has delivered opinions for the various bodies working in the field of justice and home affairs. the agencies that are examined under the budgetary year of landfills fulfil key missions in different areas such as security, migration, protection of fundamental rights. these areas obviously have a significant impact on the lives of our citizens, especially the most vulnerable. so far from being a technical exercise, the budget discharge process reveals a major political importance in controlling the good use of european public money. the work of the european agencies and bodies must therefore be exemplary, respecting the tasks assigned to them and the values of the european union. our role as a parliament, as a co-legislator, is to ensure strict controls aimed at the best possible operation in accordance with the law. i can therefore only urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to be serious and to be demanding when you vote on the report on the frontex agency. the rapporteur mentioned the many dysfunctions that still exist in the agency, despite the change of leadership. it is the most endowed agency in the european union, with a budget that is constantly growing, and we cannot remain indifferent to the dysfunctions in terms of human and financial mismanagement, but also to the non-respect of fundamental rights at the borders.
president, ladies and gentlemen, a pension of eur 13 700 a month, eur 13 700 a month in the pocket. after only 20 years of career. that is what a special pension fund here guarantees to some 900 members of the european parliament. it is about ten times more than what a typical european worker gets after about 40 years of career, in pure grain pensions and paid for by the taxpayer, of course. and with those grayers, those pensioners, almost all the groups, including the far right, he is a member of the id group, flemish interest. your former chairman frank vanhecke: apparently one of the pensioners. i can't believe this. always against europe, except when it's to fill your own pockets apparently. so what's the point? the point is that the pension fund is bankrupt, a gap of 313 million euros. and then there is a serious debate here about whether the ordinary taxpayer should supplement that. no, the taxpayer shouldn't. that fund should be abolished. stop your groveling.
madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, as the shadow rapporteur for the discharge of the agencies, i am extremely happy about one thing, that we have managed to find agreement across the political spectrum, particularly on frontex. frontex is one of the largest and most important agencies and the good functioning of frontex means the safety of our citizens. this is no time to play ideological games with frontex. i would like to thank the socialists in particular and also the representatives of the left, the communists, for supporting the discharge to frontex. the new management is doing a perfect job, and i firmly believe that most of the problems can be attributed to the former management, led by mr. leggeri. i'm sure you will. and frontex is doing a good job today. let's not leave him hanging and support him. as for the other agencies, i am very pleased that they all make a significant contribution to their objectives and have good budgetary policies. i see great potential for improvement in a lot of agencies, or mergers, but i don't see any problems with budgetary policy. so i thank you all for your work on the agencies and i strongly urge that we all support them in the vote tomorrow.
madam president, i’m here to discuss the discharge of our agencies, and i have to say that most of our agencies are delivering a terribly good job – also quite often with a very low number of staff working for those agencies. and every time we’re piling up more priorities and more issues and more tasks to our agencies, but without giving them more staff, and this is probably still something for the council to debate and certainly the swedish presidency, by the way. however, there are two agencies that that we still have issues with. one that has been mentioned a couple of times already is frontex, and indeed a lot has happened and a lot has improved. we have a new executive director, which is a good thing and to be very honest, it’s always funny to hear the epp ‘let’s not play’, but that’s what they also said with the former executive director, of course, and now he’s gone, they say ‘ah, good, we solved the issues because he’s gone’. well, you were not in favour of that either, so there is never any idea for action there, but we are happy that we acted on it. but this is important towards the commission as well. structural problems remain and need to be investigated on participation in pushbacks and all that, and that is something that we need to be very vigilant on, and for that we cannot grant discharge still. the same goes for the eu agency for asylum: as long as an olaf investigation is ongoing, we cannot grant discharge. for all the other agencies, we will grant discharge.
president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to talk about frontex, our european border guard. the annual budget is increased to eur 1 billion. the number of staff will increase from 2 000 to 10 000 in the coming years. these agents have drones, satellite imagery, all-terrain vehicles and patrol planes. and you would think, okay, it's going in the right direction. and yet it doesn't work. there are already some 5 to 6 million illegal aliens in our countries and many hundreds of thousands more arrive every year in the european union without documents. why would you do that? frontex is being opposed in every possible way by the left-wing parties in this hemisphere, who are constantly waving human rights to make it harder to push back illegals, and by left-wing ngos, subsidized by you, who are working against frontex in trial after trial. this is not how it's going to be. we are calling for general pushbacks and for refugees to be taken in their own region. europe is already taking in millions of ukrainian refugees. we cannot afford to have all the fortune seekers from other continents here. we are not the public welfare center of the world. (the speaker agrees to answer a 'blue card' question)
the question of the blue card. mr de man of the id/vlaams belang group, you are cycling past the issue. so for years you have been saying that europe is too expensive, that it spends too much money and that you are going to make sure that it is saved. and then a list leaks out of the press of people who have benefited from taxpayer-funded grain pensions, and your former chairman is on that list. how do you explain that? is that pure demagogy, just for the theatre, when you come here and fill your own pockets? is that the point? can you please answer that?
blue card reply. first of all, mr botenga, these arrangements were not created by the flemish interest. second, the stakes you're earning are as big as mine, and i don't think you'd turn down that money. so your remarks are basically meaningless.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it has been 564 days since russia's full-scale invasion of ukraine, and even longer since the annexation of crimea. it is a long-term conflict, and it risks remaining a long-term conflict. ukraine needs our support, including defence equipment, not least ammunition. it could be expensive. we must be willing to pay for it, but we can also be more efficient in the way we spend our tax dollars. because right now, many countries are buying defense equipment, and few companies are manufacturing and selling it. if europe promotes joint procurement of defence equipment, we can be more efficient with our defence equipment and ensure that we can help ukraine defend its country for a long time.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are in europe in a paradoxical situation, to say the least: today, on the one hand, the states are investing massively in what is called militarisation, that is to say in research, production and the purchase of arms, which amounts to billions of pounds - 100 billion, 200 billion pounds - and on the other hand, we are experiencing an incredible social emergency. we are short of nurseries, our schools are short of teachers, our hospitals are short of equipment and staff, and our public transport is disintegrating throughout the european union. in this context, what is the priority, the urgency for the european union? it is to stimulate the demand for arms, to finance and help states to buy more arms. do you realize how completely insane and absurd that is? let's choose instead another alternative, a different policy: first, let's work for peace, diplomacy - this word that most of you have forgotten, and then let's invest in public services, in the needs of the people. (the speaker agrees to answer a question)
the answer is 'blue card'. is the war in ukraine not about workers in europe? of course you can. and that is why i have been a little bit angry at you for not having any proposals for diplomacy. for a year and a half you have refused to take any diplomatic initiative to stop this war, so that ukrainians do not die under bombs any more, so that we european citizens do not have to face a war on our borders. you don't do that, and that's your hypocrisy. you only want to invest in weapons; the diplomatic route, either you don't know it, and you have to go back to school, or you have to change your policy.
mr president, president michel, commissioner, colleagues, i reiterate our strong condemnation of the hamas terrorist attacks on 7 october and repeat the call we made as the european parliament for the immediate, unconditional and safe release of israeli hostages held in gaza. nothing can justify the deliberate torture, killing, injuring, kidnapping of civilians. terrorists and their supporters must be stopped. however, the european union must act now against the massive attacks that destroy civilian housing and infrastructure in gaza, which come at tremendous cost to human life. international humanitarian law is based on the distinction between civilian and military objects. understandable right of self-defence and international law cannot cover such indiscriminate attacks. un sources tell us that attacks on targets within gaza have destroyed or damaged 45% of all housing units, internally displaced about 1.5 million and killed over 10 000 people, including over 90 un staff. 67% of all fatalities are reportedly children or women. the call for a humanitarian pause adopted in the recent european parliament resolution must be followed by concrete measures. we also support the pressing call of un secretary-general antónio guterres for a humanitarian ceasefire, which is more urgent than ever. the eu’s credibility is at stake here. we also need, as europeans, to help pave the way of lasting peace and a two-state solution for israelis and palestinians.
please, dear colleagues, if i may, president michel has to leave urgently for paris, but he would like to give us some concluding remarks.
first we take mrs valerie hayer, and then we take mr. president.
president of the european council. mr president, thank you for giving me the opportunity to react to this stage of the debate tonight. i am going to attend a meeting which is a humanitarian conference on the situation in gaza, and that meeting will take place tomorrow in paris. first of all, i would like to thank you for the messages you have given, to tell you about the european council's determination to assume its responsibility in relation to the treaties. we are indeed facing a dramatic escalation. many have said this with very good words. we've seen, since october 7, some very painful images. first, with this terrorist attack by hamas against the people of israel, with these people whose lives are shattered, these families who are dismantled, these hostages who are captured, and then, since this attack, also in gaza, civilians, women, children who are wounded. because this war that has been triggered by this terrorist act is once again bringing misery and despair to this earth, to this region. and many have said this, and i agree with what many members of parliament have said, the european union, i believe, has a special responsibility because our history, our foundation is rooted in the disaster of a century ago marked by bloodshed on the european continent, brutality, indignity. and from this indignity, this brutality of these two wars that have polluted the european continent, has sprung this visionary capacity to reconcile first to build together an area of peace, security and prosperity. peace, security and prosperity. and i want to repeat it here in this forum very solemnly, we can measure that being mobilized for security is important, but it is not enough. we must want more than that, we must want peace. and peace, it does require major political efforts. and that is why the european council, in three very solemn declarations, has repeatedly affirmed israel's right to defend itself, and has strongly condemned hamas and its vile attack. but at the same time, the european council does not accept double standards. there can be no double standards, there are universal values. and indeed, protecting civilian lives should be a requirement everywhere and at all times, not based on circumstances or short-term interests. if we really want to maintain this moral authority, this responsibility, this trust of other countries in the world in the european union, we must be consistent. and let's be clear, keep our eyes open. we see that others are using attack and suspicion massively, accusing us of setting double standards. that is why you are right to urge us, the member states, the council, who have responsibilities under the treaties on these matters, to be very committed, especially to humanitarian assistance. we will be many to mobilize concrete action tomorrow in paris at this conference. a few days ago, i was in a conversation with benjamin netanyahu to advocate, to argue, to encourage the establishment of humanitarian breaks and humanitarian corridors. i was in contact with all the leaders of the arab world, as all the european countries are also committed to this issue. we must produce results as quickly as possible, because so many civilian lives are in grave danger if we do not have the capacity to change the course of things. and then, as you understand, there is political action, peace. it is not because we feel that there is a very strong resistance from the main parties concerned that we have to give up. we must be obsessed with peace, obsessed with the two-state solution. work to ensure that israel has a legitimate right to security, and that the palestinians have a more optimistic future based on this two-state solution. you see, we're extremely determined, extremely committed. we will continue to work with all the forces of goodwill to try to ensure that the european union lives up to its responsibility. we are, as has been said, indeed peacemakers. this must be in the dna of the european union. we must never give up. we must be extremely committed. i would like to say a word quickly, since questions have been asked, on the european budget. i heard the messages. we know the difficulty of a budgetary year at european and national levels, but at least be sure of the sense of responsibility of the 27 heads of state or government who seriously discussed and debated this subject a few days ago at the european council. we will continue to identify very carefully, very seriously, both the priorities to be set for this second part of this institutional cycle and how we will finance them. and then we will of course continue the institutional work with parliament. i am already looking forward to this institutional cooperation, as was the case with the initial budget, to securing the means to achieve our ambitions, to achieve our objectives. thank you for allowing me to comment on some of your comments and be assured of our ambition to continue to cooperate with you.
madam president, one month and one day ago, hamas committed the most terrible of atrocities. slaughtering innocent people isn’t fighting for freedom; it’s simply being criminal. israel had the right to respond, but this response had to be proportionate, targeted and within the limits of international law. we do care about international humanitarian law, and everyone must uphold it. but one month into the war, we see thousands of palestinian civilians killed, many of them children; a catastrophic humanitarian situation unfolding. we see forced displacement, unprecedented destruction, horror and suffering everywhere. more hatred is building up, and so the vicious circle goes on. we need a ceasefire, the unconditional release of hostages, and much more humanitarian aid flowing into gaza. this conflict did not begin on 7 october, and this conflict does not have a military solution. when this bloodshed is over, it’s time to seriously think again about how to build a lasting peace. we have all allowed the israeli-palestinian conflict to linger on for too long.
madam president, i am not going to say anything. fuck you, you fucking fucking fucking asshole! we'll hit you tonight. these were the words that a young danish jewess met when she returned home. the window was carved with a cross. her front door was broken. the conflict between israel and the terrorist organization hamas has also affected europe. we see in denmark alone an increase of 2,300% in anti-semitic attacks since the terrorist attack on 7 october. it is a direct consequence of the mass muslim immigration and the worldview brought to europe. we see demonstrations all over the continent shouting hamas' slogan: "palestine, from river to sea". they call jihad in the streets of copenhagen. they're shouting death over the jews. many people do not want to face that reality. that is why many have also been busy explaining it as a small segment of the muslims living in europe. but we must only say that when prominent figures like football player nadia nadim, pop singer islam b and aarhus councillor rabih azad-ahmad all explain and spread fake news about the conflict and deny that hamas is a terrorist organization, it is not an isolated problem. unfortunately, anti-semitism has not been stronger in europe since world war ii and mass immigration is to blame. (the honourable member agreed to answer a question in the blue card)
blue card answer. the questioner knows well the position of the danish people's party on anti-semitism. we've always been 100% with israel, and we're fighting it wherever we see it. the list of entities is also available when, through public grants, they have directly supported one of the organisations behind the terrorist attack. i am not sure what the commission has done. they said it was a mistake to use danish tax credits on an islamic terrorist organization. but a simple google search by the jyllands post showed these people training for terrorist attacks. i think that's embarrassing. i felt that the single list should be responsible for both here in the european parliament and in denmark.
a uachtaráin, commissioner šefčovič, i condemn the reprehensible acts committed by hamas against innocent civilians. their actions are without justification and their bloodlust has only brought devastation to their own community, whom they say they represent. israel does have the right to defend itself, but this is not a blank cheque. the mass bombing of civilians is not the answer. the welfare of our citizen, 8-year-old emily hand, is still unknown after she was taken hostage by hamas. i call for her immediate release. in addition, there are around 40 irish citizens still trapped in gaza. humanitarian corridors need to be opened immediately to allow people to flee the constant threat of bombing and allow the wounded and sick to receive treatment. i do not really care about the linguistic semantics – what i want is for the killing and violence to stop. the two-state solution is not just a matter for justice for palestinians, but also an imperative for israel’s own security and future. every responsible politician must work to bring this about. this is how we got peace in northern ireland. this is the model for peace in the middle east.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is not obvious that we can take measures or respond in a moderate and measured way in a debate where the extremes are finally shaken and back and forth. i think we should all be able to say that the terrorist massacre of 7 october demands a strong response: the eradication of hamas, which is a terrorist group. some people have a hard time pronouncing hamas, a terrorist group in this house, and i deeply regret it. the release of the hostages is a top priority but, ladies and gentlemen, and i say this to others in this house, let us not confuse hamas with the palestinian people. yes, the israeli government has the right to defend itself, but it must also respect international law. he must respect humanitarian law. it must ensure that tomorrow we can provide the necessary assistance to civilians. and it shall not be by killing children, or civilians, or women, that there shall be peace in gaza, or in israel. the first is that the european parliament has not yet ratified the treaty, and i think it is most important today that we ensure that this right is respected by all and by everyone, at the risk of creating even greater conflicts tomorrow.
madam president, first of all, it’s unacceptable that european politicians demonstrate alongside organisations who clearly support hamas and carry flags of isis. left-wing politicians like mélenchon in france, pineda in spain or ahidar in belgium turn this into a political strategy that can only further divide western societies. and colleague pineda dares ask for the resignation of president von der leyen. seriously? from my part, people like pineda should move to gaza and officially work for the hamas propaganda instead of staying in a europe they despise and do not protect. second, let me be clear on the conflict between israel and hamas: the european council should maintain its balanced position, a position between condemnation of hamas terrorist attacks across israel, israel’s right to defend itself and providing humanitarian access to gaza for aid supplies, while ensuring that this assistance is not misused by terrorist organisations. the eu must not leave this balancing act under the next eu presidency that takes office on january 2024. there are two reasons why i worry. one member of the belgian government that will ensure the eu presidency stated recently that hamas cannot be considered terrorist, while two other belgian ministers demand sanctions against israel.
madam president, more than 10,000 people have been murdered by israel in gaza, more than 4,000 children, many still in the rubble. what is the eu doing to prevent the killing of civilians? to prevent attacks on ambulances, hospitals, schools, refugee camps, water infrastructure, electricity, apartments? this is disproportionate genocide, violates international humanitarian law. you heard the message from the children of gaza yesterday: we want to live, we want peace, we want food, water, medicine, not war rockets. unprecedented human suffering. a little empathy, europe. that europe that was here and now it's gone. you must press israel for a ceasefire, there is no humanitarian break. what a shame for europe to be silent in the face of genocide! stop the war with diplomacy, that's enough, as the un secretary-general has said. the european people, like my people in galicia, are denouncing international crimes, calling for a ceasefire and peace. ceasefire and stop the war!
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i really would like to thank you for your open, frank and even emotional interventions. i would like to highlight that it is only natural and human in the face of indescribable pain of innocent civilians in the middle east. an overwhelming majority of the honourable members underscored that there is no justification for the horror that hamas unleashed against innocent men, women, children and even babies, as well as you underscored the imperative of respect for international humanitarian law by israel. i would like to tell you that i clearly heard you loud and clear when you have been highlighting the importance of our european duty to increase and deliver humanitarian aid now, and offer a peaceful political perspective for tomorrow. i would like to reassure you that we are doing our utmost not only to increase our humanitarian aid, but also that we are working 24/7 to make sure that this aid is properly and promptly delivered to those who need it most. if it comes to the political perspective for tomorrow, i think it is also quite clear from our debates today and from the intervention of our political leaders, that it is clear that this perspective is the two-state solution. the european union, as you know, is a peace project overall and in itself and i’m convinced that our debate today confirmed that europe stands ready to work with all the people and all the countries in the middle eastern region to achieve this very important goal.
the discussion is over. we can move on to the schedule. the following item is entitled 'commission statement on eu enlargement policy 2023, which is a very recent issue'. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 171.
in writing. dear colleagues, you see the israeli massacre in gaza. you see the bombing of hospitals, the un schools, bakeries. you hear ngos, doctors, and the united nations calling for an immediate ceasefire. you hear israeli officials calling for ethnic cleansing. but you here refuse to even talk about a ceasefire. i am speaking in particular to this coalition of socialists, liberals and conservatives who have just sabotaged our demand to debate and adopt a resolution on a ceasefire. i am speaking to the european commission, which has not yet lifted its finger to force israel to respect international law. more than 4,000 palestinian children have been killed, and you refuse to even talk about a ceasefire. when russia hit a ukrainian hospital, you rebelled. when israel hits a palestinian hospital, you support it. when russia hits a civilian infrastructure in ukraine, you're imposing sanctions. when israel does that, you're just applauding. these two weights, two measures, take away all credibility in the european union in the field of human rights. it is time to suspend the association agreement with israel. it is time to impose a military embargo and withdraw the european delegation from israel.
i would like to remind you that according to the rules you cannot show even if with books are with you when you are speaking so thank you very much for the future.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, madam commissioner, your self-satisfaction is truly unbearable. you are speaking frankly of a success of european policy, while the belgians, for example, still pay twice as much for their energy as they did before the crisis. is that what success is, bleeding people, raising their bills? you dare call that a success? please start by breaking the power of multinationals, breaking this market. let's lock in prices and tax the profits of multinationals. what are you waiting for? then you'll come back and tell us about your eventual success if you can do the minimum of the basics. let's talk a little bit about the morality of your policy, though, because you've decided not to import russian gas through the pipeline. - i'm going to be fine. this has obviously increased the price increase, but you said it was moral because we do not want to finance russian war crimes in ukraine. - i'm going to be fine. and then what do you do? you're going to make a gas deal with israel. so not only are we paying more now, but we're also funding israeli war crimes in gaza. congratulations to you! clearly, a palestinian child is not as valuable to you as a ukrainian child.
mr president, for the first time since i left my native burkina faso, i see in europe an equal amount of insecurity and increased censorship on certain subjects. i'm not the only one. many fellow citizens are worried. europe and the united states must work together harder to build our security and our future, to build a safer home for our citizens. in these times of geopolitical conflict and increased global fragmentation, this alliance is crucial. we must indeed come together to fight terrorists and their supporters at home, recognize israel's right to self-defense in the middle east, allow humanitarian aid to gaza, free the hostages, establish better partnerships with africa and restore the prospect of a two-state solution in the middle east. there is still much work to be done in the economic field. why are there no agreements with america yet on sustainable steel and aluminum and critical raw materials? i call on both sides to reach agreements this year and on europe to do something to give an adequate response to the inflation reduction act.
madam president, the international convention on the rights of the child was adopted unanimously by the 197 states on 20 november 1989. it says that not to go to war or suffer war is every child's right. so let's end the massacres in gaza by an immediate ceasefire. the right to a decent life, the right to a healthy diet, the right to housing are rights for every child. with five million children at risk of poverty in europe, it is time to act, notably through the guarantee, but it must become effective in each country. the right to participate is a right. it is also high time to make cop 28 the first cop to bring young people to the negotiating table. going to school is a right. the european commission must make effective the commitment to zero tolerance of child labour. this is a commitment made in 2019, and there is still a lot to do. the right to family is a right of every child which is now being violated by the meloni government. it is high time that the rights of all families, especially lgbt families, are respected. the iacc is a universal convention for the international community and the european union to enforce.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, when we talk about industry, people are interested in two things. first, quality employment and second, a healthy living environment. and what do you propose to us today in this text? first, giving full support to enterprises in the name of competitiveness, without strategic priorities and without strong conditions, especially without strong social conditions. and we know this strategy in belgium, companies take the gifts in their pockets, thank you, and then when they get a better deal elsewhere, they still relocate, you know the little song. then we can disregard it. deregulation means to be flexible, for example, in obtaining environmental permits. but where do we stop? are we gonna cut down forests and install wind turbines? perhaps you've heard of the pfas scandal? in belgium now, in some areas, people are sometimes afraid to drink clean water because of pollution. and we want to make it easier? i know we have two former ceos here who are presenting the new industrial strategy of technology, but still... the state should be at the service of the people, not the private sector, the employers and the profit.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. already with the green deal, there should have been an industrial plan for growth and prosperity. meanwhile, the united states took a huge lead. it was only after the inflation reduction act that the commission came up with this proposal for a regulation for a net tonne industry, which by definition only covers a part of our industry. the rest of the industry must do it without accelerated procedures and without support. the positive thing is that the parliament is finally becoming aware that we need nuclear energy for decarbonisation and energy security. however, it is unacceptable that public procurement should be given a weighting factor of at least 30%, not only for the environment but also for social sustainability and resilience. this will lead to a deterioration of our internal market, this will lead to protectionism, this is contrary to our open strategic autonomy. at least 30%, without ceiling, combined with the very vague resilience criterion. and finally: the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of workers' rights.
the rules are a little complicated in those cases.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the report (doc. just another deal means this is not legislation to be proud of. trade agreements, however, bring growth and prosperity. they diversify our supply lines, they bring stability and they bring people together. the first thing that needs to be done is trade, which is to increase market access, remove barriers to trade, reduce tariffs. secondly, trade agreements serve as a lever for working conditions, human rights, sustainability and climate objectives. the eu must act pragmatically and act as a partner, not dictating with a finger in the air what to do and threatening sanctions. china is much more pragmatic, arguing geopolitically, and is active in many places in africa and south america. let this symbolic agreement with new zealand be a catalyst for the new trade agreements that have long been in the waiting room.
the european union is a country which is geographically distant but close to the union in terms of values, interests, standards and quality. this agreement will open up new opportunities for european businesses, especially for exports of manufactured products, but also of agri-food products, which will benefit from zero tariffs in new zealand from day one. i also appreciate the list of geographical indications protected by the agreement and am very proud that more than a quarter of these names are italian products of excellence appreciated worldwide. it will therefore be essential to ensure effective protection of even those names most at risk from the phenomenon of italian sounding. i will vote in favour of the agreement, but i continue to hope that the commission will consider, in its future negotiations, the cumulative impact of the various trade agreements and also the introduction of the so-called mirror clauses. finally, i conclude by hoping that a lasting solution to the so-called kiwi problem will soon be found, which is particularly relevant for my country. it is important to ensure reciprocal conditions for european companies that want to invest in the production of kiwis in new zealand, but avoid being forced to disclose sensitive commercial information in order to export their products.
the commissioner has already made progress in this free trade agreement, particularly in the area of sustainability and better environmental consideration. but it is also necessary to judge and measure the actions of the european commission as a whole. i cannot accept the fact that the commission is continuing to increase the administrative and financial burden, with ever higher environmental objectives for our agriculture, and at the same time is opening its doors and considers agriculture as an adjustment variable in the free trade agreements. it is not sensible to import beef which we produce in our territory in good quality and at the right time. it makes no sense to bring milk from new zealand to our territory from over 20,000 kilometres. all this makes no sense economically, environmentally or socially.
mr president, frankly, people are tired of the european union always coming up with dictates saying that you have to cut the budget of your schools, your kindergartens, your hospitals, you have to work longer, for less money. i would like to say that the people can no longer have this europe without transparency, without democracy, without being listened to. and in this context, what is a coalition of green socialist liberals proposing here? this means more power in the european union and less democracy within it. i am not ashamed to suggest even a commissioner, no excuse, a secretary for austerity. this means that you want to institutionalize these austerities, these budget cuts even more. people can't take it anymore. it won't go away. and what do you propose? no more war? you want to take away the right, for example, of belgium, to say no when it comes to sending belgian soldiers abroad. because this is the transition from unanimity to a majority vote. you don't confess it, you don't take it, so people won't accept it.
question on the procedure of the blue card. - mr. friend! you've worked for the soros foundation for five years and you're talking about anti-semitism? in your green government with you in germany, jews and jews can no longer freely go out on the streets because of the mass migration that has dragged you to germany people can't speak freely, walk freely on the streets or even go to their churches. i ask you quite frankly: should you not be a little more concerned with germany, with your german government and with the events in germany against jews and jews?
also when you are raising a blue card, please keep within the frame of our values and our principles.
president. - i have two more sizes and two weights in this house. more than 20 billion european funds are being frozen for hungary, because, among other things, the legal system would not be biased. but other countries are left untouched. in belgium, for example, the constitutional court is staffed by political creatures and nobody is aware of this. another belgian example: a right-wing café owner will be fined eur 5 000 and imprisoned for six months in leuven for the slogan prefer a cow in the pasture than an asylum seeker. but on the other hand, the chairman of the socialist party, a ruling party, is not fined, not imprisoned if he urges the police to work with the mattress. clearly two sizes and two weights and no example of impartial jurisdiction, i suppose. and so again: two sizes, two weights.
mr president, today i have a question – a pressing question – for some western feminists: how can you remain silent when women and girls are raped, tortured, their bodies carried around naked and spat on by bearded men shouting allahu akbar? then you can never call yourself a feminist again. every day, including today, some western hypocritical feminists should be ashamed of their silence on the horror that hamas men inflicted to women and girls on 7 october. and that includes big names we were once proud of. why are their lips sealed and their hearts of stone when it comes to the excruciating pain of jewish women? the metoo movement and so-called intersectional feminists do not care about all women. if they remain silent, it means they have lied to us about their commitment to women’s rights. their actions support the oppressor, not the victims. also the eu money does indirectly. those who say nothing about these women and the hostages should not be standing here and speaking about human rights. when you are under attack by terrorists, a ceasefire is like raising your hands when you are being shot at. perhaps it’s worth considering that a real, lasting ceasefire will start with bringing back all the hostages to their homes and the rapists to justice.
mr president, i am not going to say anything. and thank you to borrell for a nice speech. there is one point which has not been discussed at all today and that is the threat that is now taking place in lebanon. nine people were killed yesterday, including two journalists and an old woman. 45-46 000 are internally displaced. 45,000 olive trees have been destroyed, cut down, sprayed with white phosphorus. and let me quote what the israeli defense minister, defense minister galant, has said. they're flying everywhere in the arab media now. "what we are doing in gaza, we can do in beirut". i think we should be much more aware of the serious threat that is coming to us all because we do not see the things that are happening right now. we are not going to be able to do this without the help of the european parliament. so we can't guarantee that they'll just sit there with their hands folded and hope they're okay. if not, we're much, much more tough. i know borrell knows this, but i think everyone should know this.
mr. chairman, mr. colleagues, you say that israel kills civilians and you use that as an argument to condemn israel. it is clear, then, that any news of a civilian being killed harms israel, and benefits hamas. and it's clear from that why hamas doesn't let civilians go, but uses them as a living shield. you're calling for a truce. in that truce, of course, hamas will not sit back, but regroup and supply additional weapons. why don't you ask for the complete disarmament of hamas? why don't you just ask for a fair election in gaza? so all of you who condemn israel today are actually protecting hamas and protecting radical islamist terrorism and leading that terrorism into europe through a completely irrational immigration policy. i think it's time you realized that israel today, when it destroys hamas, is actually doing us all a favor.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i listened very carefully to all the interventions and i would like to summarise my concluding remarks in the following five points. one: there can be no doubt that the international humanitarian law applies fully in this conflict, as in any other conflict, and it is binding on all parties. and it is also quite obvious that international humanitarian law is not being respected. large numbers of civilians have been killed in israel on 7 october. hostages were taken. rockets have been fired indiscriminately across israel. more than 12 000 civilians have been killed in gaza. humanitarian aid is being obstructed. more than 100 un staff have been killed, and so on. these are violations of international humanitarian law and they have to stop. second, it is urgent to improve humanitarian access into gaza and within gaza. now let me explain what this means in practice. with the help of the un security council resolution adopted last week, resolution no 2712, which says, inter alia, what this access means. it means, i quote, ‘urgent and extended humanitarian pauses and corridors throughout the gaza strip for a sufficient number of days to facilitate the continuous, sufficient and unhindered provision of essential goods and services throughout – again, throughout – the gaza strip, including water, electricity, fuel, food and medical supplies, as well as emergency repairs to essential infrastructure’, and so on. this is the law. this is what the law says and we still have not seen it complied with fully by all parties to this conflict. third point: i also wish to stress the importance of the role of the united nations. the role of the united nations in humanitarian assistance to palestinian territories is indispensable. and i want to say that very clearly, because the united nations has been attacked by some recently. and i just want to make it clear that without them, there can be no meaningful humanitarian assistance to gaza and other parts of palestinian territory. fourth: for us as the european union and our member states, it is essential to step up the humanitarian response, both in kind and in funding, and the european commission is committed to doing its part. and finally, my fifth point: while our focus has been on gaza, we should not lose sight of the deteriorating situation in the west bank, and we should step up our efforts on the political front towards a two-state solution.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on behalf of the council. mr president, i had already warned you at the outset that it should be possible to see the two plates of the scale. and if i have to say it again and repeat it all the time, i repeat it: what happened on october 7 is absolutely reprehensible and condemnable and cannot be justified in the name of the right to defend against colonization or in the name of fighting to build a palestinian state. - no, i'm not. when i am asked: do the palestinians not have the right to defend themselves? it's just that the 7th of october was not an act of defense. it was an act of terror in which defenseless civilians were deliberately attacked. you have to say it every time you need to, because it seems like some people don't want to hear it when some people say it. it must also be said that the molotov cocktails thrown at synagogues in berlin or the slogans at the other end of the world in sydney against jews have nothing to do with solidarity with the people of palestine. they are just the ancient hatred of the jewish people, which has written the worst page in european history and which we must fight every day without exception and without a doubt. do we have to say it again? let us do this every day, but not for that reason let us not fail to recognize what is happening in the west bank with a colonization that goes against un resolutions. let us not minimize the mistakes that each of us may have made in this tragedy that has been going on for too long. and if we want to talk about law and law, let's hear what the person in charge of enforcing it, the prosecutor of the international criminal court, says precisely when he reminds us that his task does not have to be developed based on emotions, but based on objective and verifiable evidence, and that he is conducting the necessary investigation to respond to what we now perceive as drama and that then when the case comes he will have to be turned into accusations against a defence. let's not change the emotion for the sake of reason. the emotions are in full swing in that part of the world, but it is up to us here to try to overcome them to see a path through which we can move together towards the pursuit of a peace that can be built not only on the military destruction of a terrorist organization, but on the hope of the palestinian people to live in freedom and dignity. without that, there will be no peace. and peace is not just something that is needed for moral reasons. now that it's so fashionable to talk about necessity and virtue, it's not just virtue, it's absolute necessity. and the one who needs the existence of a palestinian state most is israel, because the best guarantee of peace and security for israel is the existence of a palestinian state inscribed in the international order and respectful of just coexistence. and that's what we have to invest in. and now let me go down a little bit to a little spanish-spanish debate. mr lopez istúriz, spain does not preside over the european council. i am aware that the european council is chaired by mr charles michel, not by the spanish government. the spanish government holds the rotating presidency of the council of the european union, which is another matter. and transfers on international policy have been transferred to the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy representative. so if you want to criticize anyone, criticize me. i will surely need your support more than your criticism, because it is very difficult to find the balance at a time when everyone is only looking after their pain. and it makes sense that it is. where nobody wants to talk about the day after, because everyone's in today. some want to end hamas and others want to prevent more deaths among their people. but there will be a day after that, and that day after that is when the european union has to be on the date with history and be able to contribute more, not only as the good samaritan who comes to help and minimize the damage that has already happened, but to prevent it from happening more. not only with all the humanitarian aid that my colleague janez lenarčič is developing admirably, but also with the political commitment that this humanitarian aid does not have to be devoted to healing wounds, because it is of little use to give dinner one night if you are going to die the next day under the bombs. what we have to do is cooperate with humanitarian aid and political commitment to prevent one thing from happening. i hope that this parliament will actively contribute to this solution, also overcoming its logical differences.
i would like to thank you for the important and intensive debate on this subject. i ask the colleagues who i could not call at the catch the eye to apologize, but for temporary reasons i was no longer able to. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 171.
in writing. israeli ministers openly deny the existence of a palestinian people, propose the expulsion of all gaza residents to egypt, and use maps of where palestine has been scattered. israel is openly declaring its desire for ethnic cleansing. by word and deed. in the north of gaza half of the buildings were destroyed, and a million and a half palestinians were driven from their homes. in just one month, israel has killed thousands of innocent children and babies, murdered journalists, doctors and their families, un and world health organization workers. the ethnic cleansing is not limited to gaza. in the occupied west bank, entire palestinian villages are being emptied of their inhabitants. in jerusalem, christian and armenian neighborhoods are threatened by israeli settlers. but despite all this, despite the denunciations made by the most important un agencies and international ngos, the european union refuses to condemn israel or call for a ceasefire. the european union is supporting israel's crimes. the eu-israel association agreement is a treaty that is based on the principle of subsidiarity. she's complicit in the ethnic cleansing. that's enough. we shall suspend the association agreement. let's stop the export of weapons. we're going to have to withdraw the european diplomats.
on behalf of the greens/efa group. mr president, safe haven for the russian oligarchs, opaque financial position favourable to circumvent european sanctions and anti-money laundering rules, system of granting golden visas. no, this is not the scenario of the latest netflix series, it is what cyprus confidential reveals about cyprus, a member state of the european union. as russia waged its war on ukraine, cypriot financial facilitators were quick to help russian oligarchs and putin's allies protect their assets and avoid western sanctions in place since 2014. allowing criminals to fall into the trap of european restrictive measures against russia is not only a violation of european law and a circumvention of sanctions, but also a form of complicity with putin's russia. if cyprus's bad reputation is no longer worthy, known for its too lax legislation that allows a thriving financial sector industry and financial secrecy above all, its complacency turns into complicity. it also serves as a transmission belt for dirty money and russian wealth to the west, while the key word is to block putin, so it is also up to the council to legislate, to react. when sanctions, which are our only non-military weapon against putin, are thus circumvented, and when european citizenship is subject to financial transactions and benefits war criminals, the threat to european security is real. the commission's action, as well as the commission's softness in the face of the repeated requests by our assembly to legislate on golden visas and to ensure that european law is respected, is unforgivable in the face of a situation which has long been known and still remains unresolved despite the war at the union's borders.
on behalf of the greens/efa group. mr president, commissioner, five months ago, after hundreds of hours of work, the pega committee of inquiry delivered its recommendations to the european commission and the member states. and, always ready to act on internal security, the commission, this parliament believes, in any case, perhaps not, that it has the power to act when freedom of the press, of assembly, of expression, of the exercise of civil and political rights, when european security is threatened by european governments and third countries who spy on us. and it is not only this parliament that you are asked to answer, it is the thousands of victims of illegal espionage: journalists and their sources in danger because, instead of being protected by you, they are being spied on, victims of fundamental rights violations because our states export malware to authoritarian regimes. since the end of our commission of inquiry, other journalists in exile, other meps, other officials of the european commission, other diplomats have been spied on. and still no reaction. on the contrary, the european union continues to unpack the red carpet to third countries suspected of being behind these attacks. so i have questions: why is the fact that vietnam can spy on us not a cause for alarm? why has france, through nexa, been able to export to one of the world's most liberticidal countries with impunity, when this kind of software could be used against political opponents? why are there no investigations into the attempts to spy on our colleague karleskind, our president metsola, members of the european commission? i think we have a right to ask ourselves whether the european commission is deliberately playing with the safety of europeans, and we have a right to ask ourselves why our recommendations are not being followed.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment. tax cooperation can only be done on a voluntary basis. it's the people who decide. it's up to the people to decide. the principle that the european union would take any legitimate position to guide, guide or decide the tax policy of the 27 member states is a fanciful delusion. is brussels concerned about taxation? but let us hope that brussels will be working to combat tax havens. secondly, the reason given for demanding the abolition of the tax unanimity rule, namely to combat tax dumping, is a false excuse, and i would say even dangerous, because it would simply be to restrict the sovereignty of our nations; by depriving the peoples of their tax consent, the european union is attacking the very principle of our social pact. but what is terrible is this relentless logic that whenever something does not work within the european union, we must add more and more federalism, more and more technocracy. more technocracy is less democracy, and it is our most precarious compatriots who pay the highest price every time, because the billions that mr gentiloni tells us about are coming out of their pockets. europe will only flourish if we respect our nations, our freedoms and our people's will. that is our vision of democracy.
madam president, madam commissioner, my colleagues, we are discussing an extremely important subject: successive crises. where has the impact, ultimately, gone on citizens, certainly small and medium-sized enterprises, microenterprises? we know that every state has the right to set its tax mix, to adapt it to local, national needs, but we also need to have a harmonization. there's a huge gap now. we say we want social cohesion; we have wages within the internal market, in all 27 states, with differences of 1 to 1,000. there are people who can't pay their electric bill, can't get their food, get sick, can't get their medicine. we have to intervene and here we salute the citizens' initiative, that of going to tax big fortunes and, to be clear, you can't have the same tax when you buy a private plane or a private boat with a tax at a micro-enterprise with three people trying to earn a living to live with their families. it is therefore clear that, in addition to the member states having this right, the commission must also provide a guide to good practice. the best measures have not been taken to protect the vulnerable consumer i am also the vice-president of the consumer protection commission neither in terms of billing nor in terms of the impact of the covid pandemic and all inflation, the inflation shock has gone to the citizen. so i think it's important that the commission and i propose a guide to good financial support tools for vulnerable households, to have that wealth tax. it is not possible that the money goes to a limited number of people and that most european citizens are poor.
the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the european parliament there are those who, along with us, call for taxation of the least taxed - the ultra rich, their wealth, their elitist and polluting modes of transport, multinationals and their superprofits - and also the most carbonated, polluting companies - and then there are the right, the ppe and its allies, who are advocating for the ultra rich and multinationals by advancing their arguments for economic growth and competitiveness. but we're not fooled. our citizens do not want a right-wing world that advocates a higher tax rate for nurses than for shareholders, a world where smes pay far more taxes than multinationals, with their superprofits - a concept that would not exist without the intervention of the left. it is time for this world to change in favour of the living standards of the most precarious and middle classes, but also to finance the indispensable energy and ecological transitions. how can we expect eu citizens to make an effort when the richest contribute the least to taxation and their private jets are not taxed even though they are the biggest polluters? with the green group, we have shown that a progressive and measured tax on the net wealth of the 0.5 per cent of the richest citizens of the european union would bring us €213 billion. this is an invaluable financial asset which is completely untapped, but which would restore citizens' confidence in the tax system and enable us to invest heavily in the ecological and social transition. so what are we waiting for? let's tax the most polluting multinational corporations, let's tax private jets, let's tax the rich and the ultra-rich!
madam president, the european union is preparing to tell you again that we must tighten our belts, that there is no money for health or for schools. yes, we will have to tighten the belt, except it will be up to the workers, because multinationals, frankly, they benefit. we talk about the crisis, but it's not the crisis for everyone. this is not the crisis for multinational pharmaceutical companies, which have been profitable during covid-19. this is not a crisis for multinationals in the arms sector, war is a necessity. and in these times of energy crisis, the big multinational energy companies have obviously filled their pockets. how is it that when we talk in this parliament about taxing multinationals, they are always backward? the european commission never wants to do this, and parliament never does (but let's do it temporarily!...). workers, on the other hand, are not taxed temporarily; they are taxed continuously. so we have to stop with this story, how multinational corporations would be too big to be taxed! no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, we have to tax those profits! secondly, a little story because, at the head of these multinationals, there are rich people. the richest man in belgium is eric wittouck, who is worth about 10 or 11 billion euros. for comparison, the average belgian worker should be working and saving all of his wages for 2 355 centuries. we go back long before jesus christ and before the roman empire, almost to the time of the appearance of homo sapiens. so why can't we get a tax on millionaires? what's stopping you? well, what's blocking you is that you've chosen your camp. you're on the side of the millionaires. we are on the side of the workers.
president. - we fully support this regulation on critical raw materials. it is more than necessary to achieve the green and digital transition, to strengthen the competitiveness of our companies, to be less dependent on the rest of the world especially china and thus to strengthen our open strategic autonomy. we are living in a period of deglobalization. the tense trade relationship between the united states and china is already leading to a reduction in the export of critical minerals from china, which has a dominant position. we therefore support the critical raw materials club and call for more trade agreements to be concluded, including a chapter on mineral raw materials and, in particular, a short-term agreement with the united states on critical raw materials needed for the production of batteries for electric cars. i congratulate the rapporteur.
a uachtaráin, critical raw materials mean exactly that. if it is critical, you can’t do without them, and certainly in europe we have learned that lesson. firstly, we need to look at what’s available within europe. i see in some countries, including my own, they’ve the mistaken idea that if you leave it in the ground in ireland, take it out of the ground in some other country, import it into ireland, that you’re actually helping to fight climate change. that’s ludicrous, utter nonsense. so we need to have an overall framework for europe. if raw materials are available here, we use them. if they are not, we should look at where we can get them. in that light, particularly, free trade agreements have an awful lot to offer. we’ll be talking shortly about taiwan. we’ve done a trade deal with new zealand, which is very welcome. unfortunately, the trade deal with australia fell apart. that would have been very helpful in giving us critical raw materials like lithium. so, we need to keep those going so that we can diversify supply, utilise what we have ourselves and then get more that we need from other reliable sources.
member of the commission. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, for the debate this morning. with this critical raw materials regulation, we are sending the signal that the european union is moving forward to reduce its strategic dependencies. this is a signal that must be translated into concrete action, of course, with our international partners, but also with the potential promoters of the projects we want to see develop in the european territory, downstream companies and society at large. with this regulation, we have finally put in place the framework to align our authorisation systems with the urgency of bringing member states closer together on this common issue, making all our businesses accountable to the needs and establishing risk monitoring and preparedness systems. the year 2030 is the horizon we are working on in the medium term. we have set ourselves ambitious manufacturing capacity targets and, thanks to this regulation and various accompanying measures, i am convinced that we will make progress, and now. i would like to conclude by recalling the commission's commitment to make a statement on the forthcoming revision of the directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment. ladies and gentlemen, with the legislation on critical raw materials, we are moving forward in the service of our ecological and digital transitions, but also in the service of strengthening europe's resilience. commission statement (in writing)in the upcoming review of directive 2012/19/eu on waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee), the commission will assess the feasibility of introducing information requirements and targets for the collection and recovery of critical raw materials from waste electrical and electronic equipment and take that assessment into account as appropriate in any possible subsequent legislative proposal.
this debate is now closed. the vote on the report will take place in our voting session later on today. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. i am all the more concerned about the relative protectionist and industrial awakening of the union in relation to these critical raw materials, since in france my region of the grand est could well be at the forefront of this renewal, given its lithium resources. in february it was estimated that alsace could supply up to a quarter of the national automotive industry's lithium needs, which is considerable (france bleu). in this respect, it is commendable that we have set ourselves supply autonomy targets in this context, which should help to reduce our dependence on external sources. i regret, of course, some aspects of this text, in particular the privileges granted to the commission. but we cannot but rejoice at a turning point that confirms some of the long-established findings of my political force.
in writing. this new regulation on access to critical raw materials repeats the same mistakes as other european industrial initiatives: lack of strategic choices and deregulation. first, the text doubles the list of materials concerned. more strategic priority therefore. titanium and bauxite have limited use for the transition, but are included as gifts to multinational arms companies. the new legislation, which is the result of the net zero industry act, the chips act, etc., paves the way for extractive activities in protected natural sites. without scrupulous impact studies, multinational companies will have a blank card. the text, based on a commercial vision with colonial leanings, calls for free access to raw materials. strategic partnerships will promote the plundering of resources in the global south. without public planning or priorities, the european union is promoting a massive depletion of scarce resources. however, extractive and processing activities are highly polluting. the text could make the situation worse by launching a gold rush. we need to change our logic. we must start from a public industrial strategy and establish targeted partnerships that respect the people and countries with the resources necessary for the transition, without sponsoring the arms race.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the report (doc. but the european commission has butter on its head. its president, the christian democrat ursula von der leyen, ordered a billion doses of the covid vaccine, which cost european taxpayers billions of euros. asked for some transparency on this strange secret order, the commission president refused to release her communication on the matter. so, zero transparency is what it means. second example: - it's not a city. i am not sure what the commissioner has said. a faction whose members were caught in serious corruption and paid millions of euros. as my grandmother always said, the commission knew: it's good to look inside yourself for a while before going to bed.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the clock is ticking for european democracy, which was built on the ashes of the second world war and let us not forget the far right, which wants to bring us back to the darkest hours of our history. from now on, foreign interference must also be fought. the first line of democracy is of course welcome, but it is a first step. i am surprised that not one of the recommendations of the commission's spyware investigation is included in this package of measures to defend democracy. the surveillance by spyware is contrary to freedom of expression, contrary to freedom of the press. journalists, political opponents, civil society, members of the european parliament, members of the assembly and members of the european commission were also monitored. if this continues to be tolerated, i fear we may miss a famous turning point in preserving our democracies.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i met families of hostages in brussels that told me about life in a kibbutz. before 7 october, they had a life. since then, it has become hell, because their loved ones were kidnapped or killed in the most barbaric way, intentionally massacred and never to return because they are jews – hunted like animals, especially the women, and slaughtered as if they were nothing. even animals have rights today. some know that their loved ones are in gaza. a woman told me about her kidnapped sister. how do you go on with your life? imagine yourself in their place: that your house was entered, the place you call home. and this kidnapped girl, what do you think hamas is doing to her now? but it seems this violence leaves the world so indifferent. no one wants war. but whatever we demand of the israeli, let us first put ourselves in their place. let us always remember the intention – the clear intention to massacre someone because they are jewish. where is the world? where is europe going if such hatred and indifference is permitted? where is the united nations going? whose role was to be the beacon of the world? the cowardice of keeping silent because the women who were killed are jewish? where are we going when so many of our top politicians tolerate the actions of an islamic terrorist group and build their careers on the failure of integration in our countries, an attitude that brings this danger and anti-semitism to our doorstep. yes, we need a two-state solution. yes, a life without war is better. but the real question today is what would you do when you are raped and burned? think of your loved ones with whom you will soon be celebrating christmas. would you leave them in gaza in the hands of hamas? i hope and wish that we never have to answer that question.
the european parliament's position is clear: we are for a two-state solution.
mr president, as europeans we have a promise. we have been able to build peace between enemy nations after using the necessary violence to defeat nazism. tomorrow, this goal of coexistence must become the horizon of israelis and palestinians. but this will only be possible if the atrocities that hamas is preparing, which are inhabited by destructive and obsessive hatred, are stopped. beyond diplomacy, how can we work to bring about this peace? we, the first donor in the palestinian territories, can take action in particular on education. peace is not being prepared when palestinian textbooks describe jews as inherently liars, scammers and corrupt, when a martyred woman who killed thirteen children is glorified by calling on students to inspire her, when a math exercise at the end of primary school invites students to count martyr coffins, or when newton's law is illustrated by a child throwing a stone at an israeli soldier. we must ask and support the re-design of the palestinian national curriculum. it is about ensuring the security of israelis and offering a future to young palestinians. (the speaker agrees to answer a question in blue card)
the answer is "blue card". thank you, ma'am, for asking. the same work that was done on palestinian manuals was also done by independent bodies on israeli manuals. the result was not the same. but of course we must work on both sides. there is, of course, room for progress, but the examples i have given you, which are just a few of the many examples, are not in individual manuals. this is the palestinian national curriculum i have described to you. it is taught in both the west bank and gaza. we need to get out of here. we must help the palestinians to be free, to free themselves from hamas.
mr president, i am not going to say anything. and thank you to borrell for his speech. the eu's call for a ceasefire now, with an end to the gaza bombing, the release of all hostages and the free access to humanitarian aid should not be discussed. thousands of dead are already too late. but the prospects for a two-state solution are fading, commissioner. yes, the eu is actually strengthening illegal settlement and land grabs. the way the eu implements its own laws is active, substantial support for colonization. in all member states, it is prohibited to trade in products originating in stolen lands. we don't need new laws, but respect for those we have! and i think that if israel realizes that the eu will abide by its laws and that israel cannot profit from the settlements, the two-state solution will also be a good opportunity for them. the 67th border gives israel 78% of historic palestine. there's room. at the same time, east jerusalem must be secured to palestine. this is the obvious path to peace for both palestine and israel.
mr president, on 6 october, there was a cease-fire between israel and hamas. on 7 october, hamas decided to break it with a barbaric attack against peaceful civilians, including europeans. immediately, we saw the rise of bothsidesism and the victim of this brutal attack, the state of israel, became the accused – also by some in this house. the accusations are coloniser, apartheid, state, war criminals, just to name a few. let’s talk facts. since 1947, up to five times a palestinian state was offered but rejected by the palestinians. in 2005, israel unilaterally left gaza for the palestinians. doesn’t sound like a coloniser. in israel, 20 % of the population is arab. they enjoy civil rights and protection under the rule of law. doesn’t sound like an apartheid state. before their precision strikes, the idf spreads leaflets and sends messages to prevent casualties, making it one of the most moral armies in the world. doesn’t sound like war criminals. hamas, on the other hand, is a terrorist organisation with explicit genocidal motivations against the jewish people. they hide underneath hospitals and schools. they keep spreading anti-semitism through their propaganda, because they know, they know that useful idiots will go along with it. chair, there is no alternative. hamas must be eliminated. we should support israel now more than ever.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unicef is talking about a war against children. at present, more than 7,700 palestinian children have been massacred by israel. when the same thing happened in ukraine, you were talking about genocide. some of you are now justifying israel. i'm not going to answer you, because there's no political difference between you and me, there's a difference in humanity, simply. those who are now defending israel either don't hear what the israeli leaders are saying, because the israeli leaders themselves say that this war is a war against all the people of gaza. they want to drive them out. two million gazans are to leave gaza, and you applaud? that's good! that's good! i hope one night you can look at yourself in the mirror again without shame in your face. today, the eu remains a complicit because it remains bound to israel by an association agreement. it continues to pass weapons to israel, weapons that will then actually kill innocent people in gaza. let's stop this complicity!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i call on our hearts today. the european union has historic responsibility in the israeli-palestinian conflict; it now has a historic responsibility to speak with one voice and to achieve an immediate ceasefire, to end the unprecedented massacre of civilians, innocent children, journalists and humanitarian workers, to secure the release of hostages, all hostages, and to seek a political solution to the conflict. a two-state solution, with the aim of restoring lasting peace, in accordance with international law. the european union must also be coherent. it must freeze, confiscate the assets of hamas terrorists, just like france has done. it must also adopt sanctions against violent israeli settlers, prohibit trade with settlements and punish leaders guilty of war crimes. the european union must be on the right side of history and also be on the side of solutions. solutions for peace, for security, for stability, to protect our children from war there, to protect our children from hatred and anti-semitism here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report contains valuable elements to define, at the appropriate time, the enormous importance that the political and economic friendship between the european union and the united states of america has at the global level. but there is a gap on the economic side, a gap we must work on. in the economic field, if there is one central point which characterizes our responsibility to global markets, that point is the agreement on green steel and aluminium, on which the united states and europe are working. i would like to point out that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights in the steel industry.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, recognition does not prevent vigilance. friendship is not without criticism, nor is it a transatlantic project. in my region of the ardennes, more than 80,000 young americans have been killed, missing or wounded, and we will commemorate the 79th anniversary of that battle in a few days. this has created a foundation of common values of freedom and democracy between us. to face the world and today's challenges, and the obscurantism that is gaining ground every day, are there better partners than americans? does that stop us from being judgmental about them? i'm sure you won't. do we sometimes have divergent interests? i'm sure you will. but also in the face of the russian danger and the yellow pearl, are there better partners than the americans on our side? i don't think he is. this does not preclude a multilateral world. this does not prevent criticism, which is sometimes linked, and which is sometimes said more forcefully to our friends. is there a better partner than the united states to tackle the climate challenge?
mr president, the european union and the governments are guilty: very expensive public housing, greedy rents, an explosion of accuracy and energy poverty, the successive increases in interest rates by the european central bank, the auctioning of public housing. newlyweds who are out of work by the 15th month are unable to open, let alone get their own home. they live with their parents. government housing programs charge newlyweds with debt, raising house prices and securing profits and customers to banks and construction groups. the european union's green and digital standards make the dream of public housing even more inaccessible to young people. this european union strategy is also supported by the government of the new republic in greece, as was the case with the previous ones. we demand real wage increases, the abolition of indirect and special taxes, the taxation of large capital. no auction of public housing. we are against the green anti-people strategy and the housing-commodity. the people in their own power can secure the right of new couples, the people as a whole, to housing based on modern needs and technological achievements.
mr president, we are facing an unprecedented precision crisis. inflation has been successfully curtailed, but this has not been done without uncompromising interest rate increases, the level of which limits the purchasing power of citizens and drives up their borrowing liabilities. at the same time, starvation and modern lifestyles have burdened cities and, as a result of the increasing influx of people into them, have driven up rental and property prices, making housing extremely expensive for young people starting their lives full of dreams and appetite. the european union is committed to supporting young people. it must demonstrate this in practice by addressing the housing crisis and rising living costs, through financial programmes, european resources, legislation and by correcting exploitation distortions and profits. we must take initiatives to make affordable housing available and to tackle the rising borrowing costs for homes and apartments by investing in socioeconomic programmes. we are creating an environment where young people can build their future with hope and stability. cooperation at european union level opens up new horizons for young people, offering practical solutions to the challenges of our time. young people do not expect us to have ready money, ready housing, or ready jobs. they expect us to break down the obstacles they have created and which have become a burden on the fulfillment of their dreams.
mr president, dear all, dear commissioner, with the rising energy prices, increased inflation and a struggling economy, it’s a difficult time for everyone. for those of us on lower incomes, including many social housing residents, this amount is nothing less than a cost of living crisis. according to the latest data available from 2020, almost 28 % of young people in the eu have been affected by overcrowded accommodation. access to secure, affordable, long term housing is at crisis point across europe. it is affecting our social and economic prosperity as well as social cohesion. decent and affordable housing is a human right, not a market for speculation. the eu can and must play an important role for a more fair and inclusive housing landscape across europe, and should properly regulate the european housing market. as young people tend to travel to big cities in search of good opportunities for their personal and professional development, they are also competing with the ever increasing market for short-term rentals for tourism. therefore, the housing situation is having an enormous impact on young people’s mental health. public intervention in the mortgage market is a pressing social justice imperative, and the key to fair wealth distribution to protect the most vulnerable and the young people. it is time to take action to ensure a financial and mental wellbeing of young people. the eu also needs to boost public investments in green and social housing. let’s protect and support our young generation.
vice president, commissioner and colleagues, there’s no doubt that young people are worse off than previous generations and struggling to meet their basic needs. addressing the housing and cost-of-living crisis is immensely complex, but one angle that is often overlooked is that of vacancy. in ireland particularly, commercial property vacancy is at an all-time high and yet we are struggling to meet housing needs. the impacts of vacancy go beyond housing. firstly, the more derelict sites we have, the fewer spaces are dedicated as cultural venues, as marketplaces, meeting points or independent businesses. secondly, converting vacancy to occupancy means less carbon emissions than new builds. and thirdly, as we have seen in dublin recently, crime is closely related with vacancy due to the absence of footfall and the activities of daily life. i believe we have not yet realised the extent of vacancy and europe can lead. first, we need an eu common methodology for collecting data on vacancy. second, the eu could also lead in rethinking office spaces: 60% of dublin’s vacant buildings are commercial. tackling vacancy would be one of the most efficient ways of providing alternative and greener sources of accommodation, of revitalising our communities and of making our cities safer for young and old.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. a3-24/91) by mr van den broek, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (eec) on the conclusion of a common organization of the market in electricity and light commercial vehicles (com (97) 060 final) this is particularly affecting startups, young people. for many people, buying a home is the beginning of a financially secure future. the fact that this is now beyond the reach of many young people also poses a danger to the stability and future of europe. the increase in interest rates by the ecb has led to a decline in housing prices, but in the netherlands this, combined with national policies, has led to a decline in supply. i cannot escape the impression that our national governments and the eu are acting without much understanding of the problems they think they can solve. so it's with mixed feelings that i'm standing here. yes, it is true that 17% of the eu population is between 15 and 29 years old. and yes, it is true that a third of them live in poverty. but is the government the appropriate agency to solve this problem or will it only make matters worse? in the worst case, the poor financial position of young people in europe will be politically abused by the eu and its politicians for political profiling and concentration of power in brussels. we must ensure that this does not happen, but that young people are at the centre and are empowered through education and work to take responsibility for their own lives and future.
mr president, today, when you look at the evolution of rent in belgium, i think that over the last five years it has increased by 12%, and in brussels, over the last ten years, by 30%. buying a house or apartment for a young person or a young couple is almost impossible. and when you get there, you're gonna find a daycare that's lucky, because you have to register your child before you even get pregnant, or you're not gonna find a daycare. all these problems, we can solve them. it doesn't take a magic wand to solve them, but it takes investment. this means that we have to invest in housing, that we have to invest in public services. we can all cry about the fate of young people here, which we really care about, but if you come back with austerity, with european rules that force us, which force states to cut public services, spend less, stop social investment, we will come back in six months to cry again, to complain about the fate of young people. it takes investments. no to austerity!
mr president, the best interests of the child are the right of every child to have a family, and there are 2 million children in europe, 2 million of whom will have real effect if the regulation on the mutual recognition of kinship ties is adopted. two million children who will finally be able to move around freely in the european union with their lgbtqia+ families. it matters to these two million children and their families. it matters to us because in 2023, in europe, these children's rights are being violated by the conservatives, by the far right, who are attacking the rights of lgbtqia+ families in italy and elsewhere. by 2023, the european union must protect the rights of all children and families. if you're a relative in one country, you're a relative in all countries. it is now up to our governments, who will have the final decision in their hands, to put into practice this rightly stated statement by the president of the european commission: 'a child is a child, a family is a family, and everyone has rights, which our governments must be the guarantors of.
madam president, our trains are running late, our daycare is overcrowded, our hospitals are overcrowded, and our housing is becoming unpayable. what is the european commission proposing in this context? a new major investment programme for multinational arms companies! yes, of course, while people are trembling, we will still guarantee gifts to companies that are among the most profitable on our continent and that are doing good business, by the way, now, thanks to the war in ukraine. we're going to make more weapons. for our own safety? well, no, not at all. europe already spends far more on arms than russia, india, south africa, brazil, etc. we can defend ourselves. no, you, your model, is the united states. you want to do what the united states does, fight wars all over the world. look at iraq, libya, it's your wars, your weapons that have created instability and threatened our security here. stop that! stop that! stop that! stop that! put that money into our services, our transportation, our utilities and our hospitals. make peace, not war!
mr president, the investigation by olaf and the pressure from the european parliament on him led to the resignation of frontex director fabrice leggeri. a large part of the house probably believed that the agency would be reborn under new auspices, leaving behind the dysfunctions of the past and thus justifying the continuous evolution of its budget of over 900 million euro over ten years. what a gamble! the agency is once again engaging in abominable practices. by providing the gps coordinates of ships trying to reach europe to a libyan militia, she handed innocent people over to a criminal group that funds itself through migrant trafficking and tortures them. i would like to ask you how much the european union is spending on its anti-trafficking plans, which it has made a priority of. is cooperation with traffickers a concept shared by both frontex and the european commission? frontex has implemented almost all the recommendations, but apparently not those on respect for fundamental rights. and will you, my colleagues, in this parliament all take responsibility for demanding that the recommendations of the frontex resolution be implemented as a precondition for granting the budget discharge? it is time to be consistent, otherwise scandals will keep repeating themselves and the rule of law will continue to deteriorate.
mr president, may i take the opportunity to congratulate you, commissioner, dear helena, for being awarded the highest of awards yesterday in our country for the resilience which you have shown during your career to achieve equality, even when most did not believe in it or wanted to keep the status quo, which is all too comfortable for many. and that is the same resilience, and it is the same ambition that is needed in the global fight against climate change. during cop28 till the last minute, many were still doubtful, many were not believing that what could be achieved was actually achieved, when it comes to fossil fuels. it is the first step in the right direction. but now, as a european union, we really need to make sure that we reach our targets. and during this cop28, the european union, and usually i am quite critical of the commission and the council, but we have shown to be the strongest when it comes to the fight against climate change and to protect the environment. and this is the ambition, this is the resilience that we need from young people in the coming weeks and months and years, so that they continue pushing us in order to achieve what needs to be achieved for our climate.
i just would like to remind everybody not to wear any t-shirts with logos or anything else, according to our rules of procedure. catch-the-eye procedure
madam president, the climate summit will therefore be about fossil fuels. it's a good thing. but before we can start as europeans, as climate advocates in the face of the rest of the world, we must look at the facts a little further: today we are investing heavily in new terminals to accommodate us shale gas. the united states is obviously increasing production to export it to us, and we know that this shale gas is more expensive and more polluting than conventional gas. this extraction releases methane, huge amounts of methane, which is a bit like coal for the climate. these investments have placed europe in a double dependence on fossil fuels in the united states. and in the meantime, the big project to turn the north sea into europe's wind power plant? with the current investment, we will not reach half the target for 2030. so let's change course, let's not leave this to the goodwill of multinationals but let's take it back, publicly, for cheap green energy all over europe.
