mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the european single market is the real beating heart of europe. a pillar that gives it strength, unity and growth. it is thanks to the single market that european gdp is on average 8 to 9% higher, and in the case of poland, gdp grew by one and a half percentage points faster every year thanks to the single market. the single market has also proved to be our shield in times of crisis, as we have seen during both the covid-19 pandemic and the crisis caused by russia's brutal invasion of ukraine. although at the same time, these crises also pointed to areas that need to be strengthened. that is why, just as we need to take care of our hearts, we also need to take care of the single market and develop it so that it will benefit us even more in the years ahead. the main focus should therefore be on the rapid removal of unnecessary regulatory barriers and the reduction of burdens on businesses in order to fully unlock the potential of the single market. we also need to ensure that ambitious eu legislation, such as the digital markets act or the digital services act, is effectively implemented. finally, we need to ensure that the single market is resilient to crises and able to respond quickly and in solidarity to emergencies, guaranteeing the continuous free flow of goods and services, uninterrupted supply chains and the prevention of shortages of goods and services, for which the single market emergency instrument is essential.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, among the many shortcomings of a union which is incomplete in many areas, the internal market is undoubtedly one of the most successful projects for a united europe, for its image in the world and for economic development, as well as a benefit for european consumers, who are among the most protected in the world from unsafe products and other risks. this success should not be taken for granted, but must be continually updated and supported. i am therefore proud to have worked as rapporteur on the internal market programme which funds its operation in the current multiannual budget, and no less important is the work we are doing with many colleagues to modernise the legislative framework in the area of the digital single market, including the world's first horizontal regulation on artificial intelligence, on which we have worked diligently, together with vice-president vestager, who is also here. in short, only if we are united as europeans can we give a future to our continent. let us do more and better, and give even greater strength to our economic and social integration to overcome the crises of our time.
mr president, the 30-year anniversary of the european single market. i think we should be proud of the achievements and the opportunities which our european single market has brought us. our smes especially should be acknowledged as the driving force behind this success, and they are the backbone of our european economy. but, we should not take all these benefits for granted. some do – don’t. our european single market is not something we can afford to lose. the single market is a fundamental tool to foster our strategic autonomy, which is much needed in these current times. i don’t think by subsidies, but by strengthening our strategic sectors and by ratifying more trade agreements, we are strong. i believe our cooperation within the single market has proven crucial in responding to the crises we have faced so far. but we need to do more, and for the future, we shall continue our commitment and remain ambitious towards further development, because we really need to do more. we should actively support our smes and ensure a level playing field for our own businesses. don’t take our european single market for granted.
mr president, madam vice-president, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, the single market is one of the greatest achievements of the european project. since 1993, we have removed hundreds of technical, legal and bureaucratic barriers to free trade and free movement. in these 30 years, the single market has deepened. today it is a place of prosperity and freedom. it offers 450 million europeans access to goods, services and jobs. it promotes entrepreneurship and cultural initiative in the 27 member states. however, we should not take these achievements for granted or as if they were complete. the integration of the internal market is an ongoing process. there are also technical obstacles, such as excessive regulation and bureaucracy, and political obstacles, because protectionism persists and the agenda of those who would like to see this project fail. europe must respond to today's challenges with more cooperation and fewer barriers, with rules adapted to a new digital reality, a true european digital market. with the completion of the internal energy market, the full realisation of the single market is fundamental to the well-being of europeans and to their international and european union assertion.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the european union is first and foremost an economic organisation, and the single market is one of its most important achievements. but the idea of trade in goods and services without unnecessary barriers is still an ideal to which we must continue to aspire. in my report, which parliament adopted last year, we pointed out problems requiring a specific and urgent commitment from the commission. the pandemic crisis or the inflation crisis that has affected us all can reinforce the protectionist tendencies that have been evident for years. the free flow of services is challenged by unnecessary controls, inadequate penalties or by local administrative authorities' hindering the activities of foreign companies, including small and medium-sized enterprises. the digital single market also has barriers, especially in online commerce, which make life difficult for both small and medium-sized enterprises on the one hand and consumers on the other. i hope that this anniversary will be an opportunity for constructive reflection on what more we can do to make the single market work better and be more unified.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. europe is not a coup, nor a construction in its entirety. it is made up of concrete achievements, creating a de facto solidarity. this foundation of the eu, as described by robert schuman in 1950, was laid first by the eec's common market and, for the last 30 years, by the single market. the single market thus serves a larger objective, a political one: the removal of national barriers. it is designed to bring people together, creating solidarity that governments cannot tear apart. the single market and solidarity are therefore interrelated. we can be proud of the economic strength and success of this single market, the encounters and the convergence it has brought about. but solidarity means more than economic freedoms. we need to ensure equal protection standards and redistribution. the single market needs a distinctive social europe. and that means consumer protection that goes beyond information requirements, posting rules that protect against social dumping, eu tax rules that make tax optimisation impossible, and rules for online marketplaces that do not allow loopholes for harmful products.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in the 1990s, the eu achieved something great that the whole world admires, and that i really love about the eu, namely a single market of almost half a billion people trading with each other every day. it is based on companies producing what they are best at and on fair competition without countries supporting their own industry. this specialisation has increased the eu's prosperity. unfortunately, this success story is threatened by an increasingly planned and centralised eu that relies on subsidies, bureaucracy and a one-size-fits-all model instead of genuine european diversity. so i have to ask myself: what feverishness has led to this self-destructive behavior? why do you want to slowly choke the single market instead of nurturing and developing it?
mr president, madam vice-president, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. 30 years of the single market: what a great success story for the european union! what have we not achieved in these 30 years: trade barriers have been removed, there are no customs duties on goods traded within the european union, and craftsmen from my home region can offer their services throughout the european union. a master's degree obtained in germany is also recognised in all other member states. erasmus is a success story, giving many young people the opportunity to complete part of their training or studies in another european country. there are no more roaming charges. minor milestones were also achieved: solvit can help with crossborder disputes. a single point of contact has been established for businesses, so that vat is only required to be declared once in the european union. and, and, and. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it's a great achievement. but of course there is still much to be done. the member states are extremely inventive in creating new barriers to trade and we must act against them. i would like to conclude by mentioning another major milestone in the internal market which we are celebrating this year: 20 years, ladies and gentlemen, of working together to achieve a single patent and a single patent court in europe. now, on 1 april, this will finally be achieved, it will be possible: an application, an examination, an award, a judicial procedure for patents in the european union. i think this is another very, very great milestone, and one of the things we in the european parliament can be particularly proud of, because for many, many years many colleagues have been insisting that the member states finally do this.
mr president, madam vice-president, madam minister, we have the right to celebrate the successes of the single market. we need not be embarrassed about such a celebration. i believe that the single market has been a great success, that the next minute we had to work - keep working - to improve and further consolidate this european union. the single market is undoubtedly one of the important pillars of european integration. the single market has worked well, but we must continue to tackle the elements that are against it: fragmentation, protectionism and anti-europeanism. we have seen here how anti-european are those who do not like the single market. that is what we have to fight against. and the rest of us can take pride in continuing to work. so we've had a tough time: the pandemic, brexit and now war. but, without a doubt, unity and common work will make us greater.
mr president, in the 1950s and 1960s, the german-american political scientist ernst bernhard haas wrote about european integration. he predicted that, as a result of a spillover effect, limited economic cooperation would lead to ever greater integration, not only in trade but also in politics, social life and our cultures. this theory, espoused by eu federalists, had as its counterpart intergovernmentalism. intergovernmentalists are not against the eu, but for a strong common market, while member states retain their sovereignty. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. we see eurorealist parties like ours emerging and governing more than one. because we see that's what people want: flexible european cooperation in a slimmed down, smaller eu. as president charles de gaulle once said: we want a europe of countries, not a europe of bureaucrats.
mr president, the single market has marked the beginning of real economic and social integration in europe. the european union plays a key role in international trade relations and has become a leader in areas such as energy, consumer rights and environmental protection. we demand and encourage other countries to uphold the same high standards. we've become a leader in building a competitive marketplace where small and medium-sized enterprises can rise to their peak. today, the single market is the most visible union in europe, but it is far from the only one. the schengen area and the euro area are the next strongest level of social and economic integration and unification, and so we should not keep countries like bulgaria and romania, which meet all the criteria and want to complete their european integration, outside these structures.
mr president, today the union’s common security and defence policy is very much defined by how we help ukraine to win the war. clearly there is much more we need to do or discuss under the banner of the csdp, but we face the most existential threat to europe’s security and defence today, and this is russia. what ukraine needs to win the war is a question. ukraine needs weapons and ukraine needs more weapons. ukraine needs a plan and a marshall plan for ukraine, if you want. fighting back russia and building up ukraine can take place at the same time. let’s not let ukraine sink deeper, that’s my opinion. chaos and confusion surrounding leopard 2 tanks must end now. there is no room for cognitive dissonance, mr scholz. you must act now. slava ukraini!
mr. president, i would like to president. - mr borrell, i have asked to speak in support of mrs mcallister's report and i would like to stress in particular the strong support in this report for nato's open door policy and the increase in european military personnel in the black sea. i think it is particularly important that the report stresses the importance of closer transatlantic cooperation, because it is very important in the future that the doctrine of european strategic autonomy should not be allowed to be implemented in plans for strategic distancing from the united states. this would be a priceless gift to regimes like russia and china, and a number of other dictatorial regimes. that is why, in order to avoid such gifts, we really need closer cooperation with the united states in the field of security and defence.
madam president, our union's response to the attack in the dnieper must be swift and decisive. we've been slow for years to respond to russia with a strong hand, and that's the reason for the tragedy in ukraine today. ukraine must get weapons that not only deter aggressors on its territory, not only defend itself, but also hit targets on russian territory. not only in sports, but in war, attack is the best defense. it's time for the russians to experience the horrors of war. and the sanctions we impose must be strengthened, but also effectively enforced by the member states.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. i'm not going to let you down. let's ask ourselves one question: what will peace look like and what will ukraine's victory look like without this special tribunal? and if we, the majority in this parliament, have spoken about this special tribunal before, it seems that now senior officials in western europe have also started to support it. why is this tribunal important to western societies, to western democracies? if there is no tribunal, then at the end of the war, what europe, america and other western democracies will actually get is a frozen war and uncertainty about the next steps and the inability to provide an international system for maintaining peace. and the second point is that russia itself needs this special tribunal. it may sound paradoxical, but without this tribunal there will be no end to the imperial narrative of society, at least for the next generation of russians. and we'll have a frozen situation for russian aggression in the future. it is also what russia itself needs.
madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, the russian cruise missile attack on dnipro on saturday afternoon was described as a hell on earth by those who were lucky enough to survive and witness the aftermath. in mere seconds, a building was transformed into a pile of rubble, resulting in 40 deaths, 75 injuries, and many missing. my thoughts and solidarity go out to the survivors, their families and the ukrainian people. in light of these horrible and unforgivable crimes, it is even worse to consider the possibility that those responsible could go unpunished. the silver lining is that we already have the instruments to make sure that this doesn’t happen. we just have to update and make full use of them. the golden path, i insist, would be to amend the rome statutes aligning the icc jurisdiction on the crime of aggression with that already in place on genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. if no agreement can be reached on this promptly, however, we should then push for the establishment of a special tribunal. the crucial point is to send a very clear message. there can and must be no impunity for the devastating consequences of this aggression, and those responsible must be prosecuted. we owe it to all the innocent victims of these barbaric crimes. they will not go unheeded. not now. not ever.
my good colleagues! an international tribunal should be established to legally condemn russia's war crimes and to hold the perpetrators accountable. the european union and other countries that continue to attach importance to international law must join forces to ensure that no crime goes unnoticed and that the perpetrator is punished. i have no illusions that such a tribunal could be set up through the united nations, as long as russia has a veto in the security council. the european union must therefore seek to build the broadest possible international coalition and establish a war crimes tribunal for russia, in which the european union must play an active role. so far, over 60,000 war crimes have been identified. in ukraine, mass graves of civilians with signs of torture have been found. thousands of civilians have been killed in the bombing of residential buildings. as of the beginning of january, the un human rights monitoring mission had documented nearly 7,000 civilian deaths and over 11,000 injuries. apparently, these numbers are higher. 14 million people have been forced to flee their homes. all these murders and other crimes have specific commanders and perpetrators. they must all be punished for the atrocities they have committed, and the international tribunal is the least the european union and the world can do for the victims of the crimes committed in ukraine and their loved ones.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. i'm not going to let you down. aggression against a country is the most serious crime, and therefore russia's leaders must be held accountable for the act of aggression and the resulting swearing, acts of terrorism, civilian deaths, millions of refugees, decayed cities, environmental disaster and looted cultural assets. the russian aggression is an attempt by totalitarian power to destroy democracy and to threaten peace and stability in europe and the world. i have no doubt that the special tribunal will be there and will hold putin and his generals, as well as lukashenko, accountable for handing over the territory of belarus to the implementation of aggression. the establishment of such a tribunal will serve as a warning to the leaders of other non-democratic countries that impunity for acts of aggression, which has existed almost without exception since the end of world war ii, has ended. but while russia continues its vows, we must speed up the delivery of modern air defence equipment to ukraine to end the war and bring about justice.
madam president, there is no excuse for the kremlin's crimes in ukraine and they cannot go unpunished. there can be no impunity. the european institutions and the member states must take the initiative now to establish an international tribunal for the aggression against ukraine. there must be justice for the hundreds of thousands of victims, which include ukrainians, bulgarians, romanians, moldovans, tatars, belarusians, hungarians, poles, jews, armenians and many other nationalities. let us not forget the russians themselves, who also suffer and die under the blows of the kremlin's aggression, as well as the russian soldiers who are victims of their superiors. i want to end with a thoughtful thought by vasil levski, the titan of the bulgarian national liberation of the 19th century. when asked what he would do after the liberation of bulgaria, he replied: when bulgaria is free, i will go to russia and form committees, because the people there are more oppressed than we are. in russia, it was in the 19th century, it was in the 20th century, and, unfortunately, it's still the case today. to prevent this from happening in the future, we must repeat the example of germany after 1945. the tribunal will also be in the interest of the future of a democratic russia.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what we are discussing today and will decide in a resolution is the plan to set up a special tribunal against those responsible for the war of aggression against ukraine. it is less than a year since the start of this war that we are addressing this special court, and it must be the european union in the global context that is launching this initiative with the willing, the forces of good will in the council of europe perhaps, so that it is really certain that those responsible in putin's russia can actually be held accountable. how can you do that? rule of law, because it is the rule of law that we are defending here. it's the freedom we defend. and it is important for the future that there is a judicial review of what has been committed and what is being committed here. we owe it to the victims. we owe it to future generations, and we owe it to those who suffer from this war and those who have to suffer from regimes that act as the putin regime does today to prevent such things in the future.
dear chairman, colleagues and colleagues. history has taught us that even in war, there are rules to follow. however, in ukraine, we are witnessing daily violations of the rules of war that are causing a growing humanitarian crisis on the doorstep of europe. the independent international commission of inquiry in ukraine has found reasonable grounds to conclude that a series of war crimes, violations of human rights and of international humanitarian law have been committed. in view of the seriousness of the infringements found, and in particular their continuity, there is an undeniable need to establish responsibility and to sanction the perpetrators. the un commission has documented patterns of summary executions, unlawful detention, torture, abuse, rape and other sexual violence committed in areas occupied by the russian armed forces in the four regions it has focused on. sexual violence affects victims of all ages. family members, including children, are sometimes forced to witness crimes. colleagues, colleagues, that's why we need to find a framework of justice, because every crime has a name and a surname.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! mariupol, bucha, irpinj are just three of dozens, hundreds of places where the russians committed atrocious crimes against ukrainians. there are 21 mass graves, there are 1,000 exhumed bodies, there are over 16,000 civilians murdered, there are 5,000 places of torture, there are thousands of kidnapped and abducted children. all these crimes must be tried and those responsible must be punished. the european union must therefore make a huge effort to support the creation of a special tribunal that will ensure that all the perpetrators - from those who pressed the button and released the rocket that hit the apartment building in the dnieper, burying 44 victims in the rubble of that building, to all those who gave orders at various levels, all the way to vladimir putin - are punished.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when human beings are executed with their hands tied, their throats cut and their heads shot off, war crimes are being committed. when women and children between the ages of four and eighty-two are raped by russian soldiers, war crimes are committed. when civilian buildings, including kindergartens, hospitals, residential buildings, are bombed indiscriminately killing civilians, men, women, children and the elderly, war crimes are committed. when cluster bombs and other weapons are used that are prohibited by international treaties, war crimes are committed. in the 21st century, humanity does not have to be forced to accept medieval violence and to live with the worst that we thought had been extinguished at the end of the second world war. in this respect, whether or not a country is a member of the international criminal court cannot be a reason for not doing justice to the dead and maimed, which is what civilization demands. that is what this european parliament must decide here.
madam president, vice-president, dear colleagues, we have heard many solid arguments for the establishment of the special tribunal to prosecute the crimes of aggression against ukraine perpetrated by the political and military leadership of the russian federation. one of these perpetrators is, without any doubt the so-called russian children’s rights commissioner, maria lvova-belova. there are almost 14 000 confirmed cases of forced deportation of ukrainian children, and this woman oversees the whole process. these actions further contribute to putin’s systematic attempts to eradicate the ukrainian nation. those crimes of aggression against ukrainian children should be among many others to be investigated by the special tribunal. let me quote the nobel peace prize laureate and campaigner for creating a special international tribunal, oleksandra matviichuk, head of the centre of civil liberties, ‘we have to prove that the rule of law does work, and justice does exist, even if they are delayed’. so i have hope that we will move forward.
madam president, victory will come with the force of arms, and justice will come with the establishment of an international tribunal. the politicians who planned and ordered the aggression against ukraine, as well as the military generals, officers and soldiers who committed the specific crimes on ukrainian territory, must be brought before it. they should be brought before this court, and the first person to stand before it is vladimir putin. what matters in this case is our democratic will, our conviction that in the modern world crimes like the russian ones in ukraine today cannot go unpunished. where there's a will, there's a way.
madam president, dear commissioner, dear minister, dear colleagues, i’m afraid that today we’re not brave enough in this house facing the challenges from the biggest clean-tech investment plan in the us and – i would rather say – in western history. we are not brave enough because we dare not say that our main task today is not to discuss protectionism and certainly not to discuss nationalisation, but to discuss the revival of transatlantic free trade negotiations and discuss maybe the opportunity to have a clean-tech transatlantic free trade agreement between the largest democratic blocks and the blocks that are really devoted to the green transition in the world we live in, which is far from perfect. and secondly, we are not brave enough to dare to say that we must literally turn the tide of overregulation and endless paperwork that investors in european clean tech are facing.
madam speaker, what is the purpose of today's debate? once again the european people's party is abusing its right to propose a thematic debate. in october, in an election-related environment, the epp forced a debate on bulgaria on a subject that only their friend borisov cared about, and on a subject that had long been settled in court. today we are witnessing yet another absurdity. we are talking about spain, a country with established democratic principles, a country with democratic, effective institutions. according to the global rule of law index, spain is in the top 20 in the world. what would you like to discuss today, colleagues? when the facts speak, it's up to the politicians to follow the facts. where were you, fellow epp members, when your party rival borisov destroyed freedom of speech in bulgaria and took over the judicial system? where were you when viktor orban, a loyal epp member at the time, destroyed the rule of law in hungary? where were you when janša tried to take over the public media in slovenia? how many thematic debates did you ask for then? this is the kind of behaviour that europe is losing. dear colleagues of the european people's party, today i have a message for you: spain is one of the most democratic countries in the world and the rule of law is not a political game. the rule of law is not a political game that can be used at will.
mr. chairman, i'm afraid we're making a serious mistake in this debate. and we are quite rightly, quite rightly here expressing our disapproval of the practices of a particular company in lobbying and influencing the shaping of political decisions. there is no doubt that everything that has been revealed on this subject is deeply reprehensible. but we're quite wrong to transfer this problematic experience from the specific company and the specific politicians and officials who made those decisions to the relationship between new technologies and the labor market. a relationship that we have no right to ignore, and i'm afraid we do systematically. and since i've never been afraid to be in the minority in a debate, as i certainly am, i'll allow myself two specific warnings. one is that if we don't adapt our labor and social security laws to the realities of the labor market and to the real, different choices that people are making when they work today compared to a period of decades ago, the victims of this decision of ours will be the poorest and most vulnerable in the labor market. and secondly, the heavy regulations that we are preparing to impose will have a much weaker effect on giants like uber than on their competitors, namely that competition in this market will drive unfair practices out of it by the will of the workers themselves.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, european works councils are a key element of the european social model and reflect the importance attached to workers' representation and social dialogue. they serve as a tool to strengthen workers' rights to information and consultation on transnational issues. these tips are no doubt of great importance to companies. increasing employee participation is a step towards more sustainable enterprises and improved well-being at work. as a shadow rapporteur for 'a new europe', my work on this report has been to make workers' councils more visible, to improve the way they work, to create a platform for the exchange of good practice, to ensure better and easier access to justice. i am happy to say that all these proposals found their way into the report and were widely supported in the committee on employment and social affairs. at the same time, however, the report unfortunately also contains texts which would cause serious difficulties for undertakings. employee participation should not be to the detriment of the ability of management to manage its business in a complex and competitive environment, further aggravated by the economic and financial crisis. that is why, from the very beginning of the negotiations, i have insisted on balanced texts which take account of the generally recognised principles of proportionality and the basic principles of the legal system. it was of the utmost importance to me to protect the two inseparable and interrelated and interdependent aspects of the employment relationship. it is important to have a balanced resolution based on effective enforcement of workers' rights on the one hand and fair representation of business and employer interests on the other. i thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive work on this report.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, social dialogue is fundamental for the social market economy of europe. this is not a cliché, but a mere fact. although with quite a different scope, social bargaining is incorporated successfully into any national labour law and any national social system. europe is becoming more and more united, especially in the face of the russian invasion, but also in the face of aggressive chinese trade policy, and these are just some examples. european businesses are becoming more and more mobile and more and more international. i would say so it should be, because the challenges we are facing are global and the opportunities before our businesses, which means before our labour markets as well, are mobile, global and becoming more and more dynamic and international. yet we obviously have no strong social bargaining framework on a transnational level. we don’t have it on the eu level. we don’t have it on the single market level. i totally agree with the rapporteur that existing european legislation is not answering the present challenges we face in europe. it was maybe quite perfect when it was designed, but for two decades we have moved ahead. i have heard a lot of critics – and we have critics inside the epp – and certainly any motion, and this one in particular, has its shortcomings, but i would say we shall address those when we have the commission proposal. but now what we had better do is to support the motion, because we have problems to face.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to find solutions to the problems that are at the root of the destabilisation in afghanistan, what we are doing is not enough. yes, humanitarian aid to afghanistan should be increased, but humanitarian aid is not a long-term solution. we cannot hope to improve the rights of girls and women if we do not stop the financial flow that feeds those who impose their standards. so we'll have to at least start talking. we will at least have to start discussing the serious threat that the illegal opium growing and production of methamphetamine poses to the country. there is a strong link between drug trafficking and terrorism in afghanistan. trafficking generates financial resources which are used by terrorist groups operating in the region. you must increase your pressure on the taliban to stop growing opium and provide them with alternative crops for their livelihoods.
madam president, i would like to thank you. my colleagues! ukraine is part of europe. what the russian regime and vladimir putin are trying to do, when they try to claim that the ukrainian nation does not exist but is actually the same nation as russia, is falsifying history. looking back through history, there are of course links to russia, but there are more and stronger links, for example to the polish-lithuanian commonwealth, and many other links: to austria, to germany and going further back: to constantinople under the byzantine empire. it is no coincidence that there is another democratic aspiration in the ukraine we see today that is different from the russian society and that is what putin is afraid of. that is why the falsification of history is taking place, because putin does not want to see that ukraine is something else and that ukraine belongs in europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. what i cannot understand is the fact that all those speakers who are advocating for peace-making measures, for peace negotiations, are provoking such an ice storm of indignation in you. we have, as of november last year, about 200,000 soldiers killed or wounded. this number not so easy to find out comes from the us general staff area. add two and a half months, and we're now at 250,000 -- maybe even more -- people killed or injured in that area. i say this has to stop. we must do everything possible to initiate peace-making measures and peace negotiations here. their policy of sanctions, and supplying weapons to this area there are tanks, now it is on mr. selensky's bucket list that we also need submarines and jets and god knows what: i think this is the wrong way. i would like to see europe, which was founded to create peace, freedom and prosperity for all, come forward here to negotiate peace and put an end to this dying.
madam president! i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! first, i'd like to correct some of the fake news that has been circulating in this room. with all due respect to all the members of parliament, we cannot say that we want to send troops there. that's not true. there's a discussion about sending weapons. and those guns need to be sent. but it would be good if some of our colleagues did not mislead public opinion in our europe that we want to send troops there. secondly, one of my colleagues in germany said that russia is the beneficiary of this war, that russia is growing economically. that's not true, man. there's a decline in russia's gdp, only 3.5%, but it's a decline. the estimates were higher, that gdp would fall by 10-15%, but you can't say that russia is the beneficiary of this war, because russia is the loser in this war. i want to make it very clear that this is a very important summit. we must support ukraine's entry into the european union and nato.
madam president, today the war in ukraine threatens to become a huge european catastrophe. millions fear the conflict will escalate. the belief that the supply of more heavy weapons, tanks, will bring an end to the hostilities is far from reality. not only are we no closer to peace, but escalation seems inevitable, inevitable. so what's the next step? what are we sending tomorrow, fighter jets, military? perhaps a nuclear weapon? ukraine is facing a power that also has enormous nuclear potential. do we expect such a battle to end in a victory for ukraine on the battlefield? yes, turning the conflict into a permanent one might destabilize russia, but it would condemn the ukrainian people to a long, self-destructive war and burn europe to the ground. the european union needs a winning strategy to stop the war. the word we don't hear from brussels is negotiations, negotiations so that ukraine can reach a peace agreement that will maximally protect the lives of its citizens.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to say that i am very pleased to be speaking in this house for this debate, before the formal vote tomorrow, on the agreement to launch a secure space communications infrastructure, iris. i would like to thank all the members who have worked hard on this issue and in particular its rapporteur, christophe grudler, who has done an exceptional job surrounded by his fictitious rapporteurs. nine months after the commission's proposal, thanks to this hard work, we have reached a trilogue agreement and parliament will vote tomorrow, just one year after this proposal, which will allow the commission to start implementing quickly. the rapporteur has just reminded us of the context in which we find ourselves and of the urgency of our situation. the efforts made to complete this dossier in such a short time reflect, in my view, the deep consensus shared by the commission and the co-legislators on the urgency i have just mentioned of this programme to consolidate our technological sovereignty and to provide the union with a secure communication capacity which, as we can see, is clearly lacking today. the amendments tabled by the council and parliament clarify, enrich and clarify many aspects of our proposal, and i would like to welcome them. i would like to mention four points in particular, if i may. first, the primary objective of iris, as defined in the regulation, is clearly to ensure that the member states of the union are guaranteed access to a highly secure, comprehensive, autonomous communication that meets their operational needs. and it is to this end that the funds of the union budget will be mobilised. this means that our main objective - and i want to repeat it here - is to build a sovereign constellation for governmental uses of public services, including, of course, security and defence. the rapporteur has just said that we have seen it in ukraine, we see it every day in ukraine connectivity via leo satellites in conflict zones is absolutely crucial. it is now a key element of theatres of operations and it is a key capability, as we have seen, that europe does not have and that iris will provide. the eligibility criteria for companies developing iris will therefore obviously be demanding, and understandably in line with the regulation. and we will not compromise the security and sovereignty of this infrastructure in any way. i want to make this very clear. it will therefore be up to the industry to adapt, not the other way around. we also want to integrate the state of the art in connectivity security, by considering the use of quantum encryption. second, iris will enable the development of innovative and complementary commercial services in addition to government services, thus enabling the emergence of a new offer of services for all europeans based on this mobile connectivity. for this service, iris will be built on the basis of a public-private partnership, which will be open to one or more partners. of course, the war in ukraine changes everything, and in a lasting way, or even permanently, some say; at least in the very long term. it is therefore clear that as such we cannot accept any risk of direct or indirect interference with those who have a risk area with russia. i would also like to say that iris is also an infrastructure that has geopolitical aims. with its potentially global coverage, as the rapporteur has just mentioned, we will be able to bring connectivity where it is needed, and i am thinking of course of africa, where i hope that iris can play an important role for the whole continent. finally, iris is also an opportunity for the union to do space differently, by taking advantage of the sector's start-up fabric, by giving a chance to new technologies, perhaps more risky, but which alone can allow a real breakthrough, a disruption that will benefit, i am personally convinced, the entire space ecosystem, the more traditional companies, but equally to our entire start-up ecosystem. and to do that, i will put in place a public procurement strategy that will allow start-ups to develop specific services for the union. ladies and gentlemen, your vote tomorrow will allow us to launch this ambitious programme without delay. i intend to launch the main call for tenders within a month, so that we can move quickly. we're looking at initial services in 2024 and full services in 2027. after galileo and copernicus, iris will be europe's third sovereign constellation, complementing the european offer and strengthening the union as a major player in space.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the commitment to this enormous challenge, which complements the impressive european space programme, is worthy of the objectives we have set ourselves in the face of the most complex systemic challenges, some of which are determined by very serious factors such as russian aggression in ukraine or aggressive chinese expansionism, great systemic challenges in which the european union's response is finally really determined. as determined as it can be in the face of the possible geopolitical role of a great power like the european union, which in this case behaves like a great power, capable of taking into account the most strategic needs but also the needs of the last, the weakest subjects, because the european space programme achieves this result, in this case ensuring security in communication, connectivity and broadband access, even from the most remote areas. it is a game that has been managed, in my view, and the rapporteur, mr grudler, should be given credit first and foremost, in the best way possible, because it not only takes account of a strategic impetus, but also takes account, as the commissioner rightly said, of the issue of the strategic autonomy of the european union, including also the smallest enterprises. a large proportion of contracts will be reserved for small and mediumsized enterprises. well, faced with these challenges, some around the world have responded by protecting themselves with new forms of protectionism. we have decided to focus on genuine innovation, and this is something that commissioner breton should be acknowledged for having believed in so transparently. good work to all of us and thanks to the rapporteurs for the work we have done.
on behalf of the s&d group. i welcome the institutional will to deploy the first-of-its-kind european satellite programme for the period 2023-2027. ensuring our independence from third countries with regard to critical infrastructure is of strategic importance for the future of the union. wars, disasters and climate change are making it urgent for europe to acquire its own capacity to extract and transfer information in space. i consider the imposition of the black sea as a key strategic region in the programme as regards satellite coverage a success. it is time for europe to move beyond the role of a dependent observer and to position itself as a leader in satellite communication services and data, ensuring its own autonomy from global competitors such as the united states and china. access to high-speed internet, increased cyber resilience capacity and robust situational awareness are other obvious strengths of the programme.
madam president, the natural connection of galicia with portugal and therefore with europe is hampered by a lack of support and investment. many words and promises, but we remain on the periphery because of the political will of the state, europe and inefficient governments, as we have seen recently in the meeting of the presidents of galicia, asturias and castile and león or in the few investments of the spanish state, by creating coordinators for the atlantic corridor with false promises. time passes, a decade and another, and the vigo-porto rail link remains outside the basic network of the atlantic merchandise corridor. for now, it's only a priority for the portuguese government. for us, it remains a historical demand of the galicians as a structuring development of the atlantic axis, as a bridge to portugal and europe, as a source of territorial and economic development. after much pressure here in galicia and also in the european parliament, the european commission has proposed that the vigo-porto section should be part of the extended basic network. but that's not enough. we should be treated equally. (the president cut the speaker off)
madam chair, corporations and the media have been censoring their websites for a long time. we all know when we get banned. it used to be for vulgarity, now it's for uncomfortable opinions. now the state wants to censor. the czech government even goes so far as to want to sponsor or more correctly bribe 150 million crowns every year to the right media that will spread the government truth, at a time when it is ordering its citizens to wear seat belts. is it misinformation that the czech government won't raise the retirement age? well, of course it is, because we know it will be. and yet, at the end of november, the prime minister himself denied it. so he's a disinformant and the websites that quoted him will be punished? and what about so-called misinformation that turned out to be true, and conversely, the truth that we now know was misinformation, such as the presence of weapons of mass destruction that served as the us's ticket into iraq? and finally, a short message to governments. maybe it's time to think about why the public doesn't trust you so much. start addressing the problems of the citizens and don't make the charter of fundamental rights and freedoms a tearing calendar.
president, since 2019, citizens have been experiencing the climate agenda of commissioner frans timmermans, the european green deal: an agenda of carbon taxes and ever-tightening climate and environmental laws that suffocate farmers and citizens. in the netherlands a red-green syndicate has now arisen which believes that this does not go far enough. this union is pushing for more taxes, bureaucracy, laws and regulations. prime minister rutte rightly warns against this left-wing cloud. however, it was prime minister rutte who wanted commissioner timmermans to be in the european climate post in 2019 and considered his appointment an important milestone. brussels is often ahead of national politics. don't let this happen next month. it's time for a realistic right-hand turn. it's time for a change.
madam president, yesterday, sunday, the rapporteur of the pega committee was interviewed in a newspaper which supports the official opposition in greece, with the headline on the front page: 'we have serious concerns about the rule of law in greece'. in another interview, a colleague, also a member of pega, mentions greece as a country heading towards authoritarianism and states that the opposition may ask the european union for an observer to monitor the elections. if that's possible. is that a coincidence ? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is unprecedented and does not correspond to the work of the members of the european parliament. we have no right to intervene with arbitrary judgments in the internal affairs of countries, creating negative impressions, especially in view of parliamentary elections. it is unacceptable to discredit the work of the democratically elected government of greece, where democracy has been functioning effectively for 50 years.
madam president, on january 19th in ohrid, the macedonian bulgarian christian pendikov was brutally beaten by his fellow citizens. it's a tragic reminder that in a candidate country for membership of the european union, being bulgarian is dangerous. and this is not the first case of violence. surprisingly, there was no reaction from brussels. the european commission and some european leaders ignored the bulgarian president's warnings that politicians in skopje lacked the will to resolve the open issues. the bulgarian veto on the negotiations was lifted under pressure from outside, in violation of the eu membership criteria. today, bulgarians in the republic of north macedonia are paying the price of european indifference to the historical traumas and cultural encroachments of skopje. i call on the european commission and the commissioner for enlargement to take a firm principled position in order to strictly respect the spirit and the letter of european integration.
blue-card speech. – thank you very much, colleague chahim, for a strong message and good example. but still, i have a very important question – because you gave perfectly well the example with the steam engine personal car, which existed for a few years and then, of course, ceased to exist in the 20s, so about 100 years ago. my very important question is, was the steam engine for personal cars administratively banned by anyone? because i don’t know that information.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think it's wrong to ban combustion engines. for our industrial site, this is a slap in the face. there is no doubt that electric cars have a bright future. this is particularly true when the infrastructure is being developed. if we have a nationwide charging infrastructure, then an electric car is a self-driving car. but it was never right to rely on one technology. the need for technology neutrality is urgent: alternative fuels, synthetic fuels and hydrogen technology also have enormous potential. and on the subject of climate change, let me say that we must also aim to make the cars on the road today cleaner, and that can only be done with alternative fuels. in germany there are currently more than 67 million cars on the roads; we must start here. it's not like everyone is going to have to buy a new electric vehicle in a hurry in the next few years. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of initiatives in this area. what we are doing is we are weakening our own industry, we are driving our companies out of europe. this is truly a disastrous industrial policy. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question under the 'blue card' procedure)
reply to a verbal message under the 'blue card' procedure. i hope you have listened to me, madam president. your question is easy to answer. the question is: how do we make the transport sector cleaner, how do we reduce co2 emissions in transport? and i fully agree with this, that if we are going to rely on new technologies here, and this is not just one technology, this is not just electric mobility. if the production of an electric car requires more energy, then we definitely have a better solution. it is about making the land stock, the fleet stock, co2-neutral. and that's why we can't just start with electric mobility. that is why we need alternative fuels, biofuels, and we also need to rely on hydrogen technology. just being blind in one eye, that's just not possible. i am deeply convinced that we need the diversity of technologies here as well.
madam president, i come from a region where people live two years shorter than the average european citizen because of the polluted air they breathe. exactly, sir. and we have the oldest cars but many still find it more convenient to drive their personal 20 year old vehicle rather than use the public transportation, for example. sophia, my capital often gets on top of the world air pollution charts. and i come from a region where the industry, however, considers transport electrification is an opportunity for growth, new jobs and better working conditions in the sector. as a chance to become stronger, more efficient and more competitive on a fast developing market. and i come from a region where people's low income is often a barrier to implementing new technologies, and affordability is a really serious issue. strengthening targets and increasing investment in the supply of zero-emission vehicles will reduce the cost and make them more affordable for everyone, including for a second-hand buyers. whether the market will shift to zero emissions is no longer a question. and it is our job to let that happen in europe, by providing the legislative framework that is needed. the faster we act, the sooner we will see the benefits of our endeavours.
mr president, i do believe electric vehicles are the future of mobility. and i am no fan of combustion. living in a city with detrimental air-quality problems. and furthermore, in my home country, bulgaria, we produce no internal combustion engines and we have a strong automotive industry which might hugely benefit from a deep transformation of mobility markets. and, however, i will not vote for a total administrative ban of internal combustion engines. i will not do it because i believe administrative bans will not lead to the transformation that we want. and quite on the contrary, i am very much afraid that an administrative ban will lead to a lazy and expensive electric vehicle industry in europe, exactly the contrary of what we aim. i must very much remind you that we did not leave the stone age because we run out of stones. but also we didn't leave the stone age because we administratively banned the use of stone for industrial purposes. it was always technology, initiative and competition that drove us ahead. i believe we will live in the climate-neutral and combustion-neutral society without burning fossil fuels for our mobility, but not through administrative bans.
mr president, if the question of voting for the european union's accession as a party to the istanbul convention is put to the floor in this chamber, i will certainly vote in favour. i'm voting yes because the rights of victims of domestic violence are far more important than the interests of populist politicians. but i have to warn you that this may not be the right solution, because it will trigger a wave of long-standing legal disputes between countries like mine, which have a constitutional court decision against the istanbul convention, and it will also certainly trigger a wave of anti-european political propaganda campaigns. so it's far more important that we focus on a very strong, very clear directive to protect victims of domestic violence. a directive that gives all the legal protections and guarantees to one that the istanbul convention gives, and that would be the basis for a strong national legislation to protect victims of domestic violence, because countries like my country bulgaria have failed in recent years to pass even an adequate serious law.
member of the commission. – i think that last year has been quite a remarkable year when it comes to enlargement. we have welcomed three new candidate countries, one potential candidate country, and we have been able to have the first igcs with albania and north macedonia. i think that there’s a very clear engagement now also at the leaders level. we have seen the tirana summit, which was a summit we have been waiting for, where very clear commitments have been made also at the level of the european council towards the western balkans to accelerate the accession process. and in that, of course, we can talk about the institutional process, the accession negotiations as such, but i do not think that it is only the institutional processes that we should be looking at. we should also be looking at the real integration: how fast the economies and the societies of these countries can be part of our markets, our societies, and there, there is much work to be done. this has been also a request from our western balkan partners. on how to maintain their commitment and how to maintain their interest in joining the european union, of course, it is very difficult to convince them to join if there is no progress on our side. this is why the commission has been pushing for decisions to be made by the council. every decision which brings us further and closer to enlargement is a very precious one. and this is why we have been pushing the agenda very hard. and this is why what you see also at leaders level is based on the work that we have put on the table. i think that it is going to be very important also from this house to bring further positive messages that we want to welcome them here and there is a place for them here. of course, it comes with a lot of criteria that needs meeting and, of course, there cannot be shortcuts on any of the criteria. so there is, we already see, quite a competition, and not only in the western balkans but now in other regions very close to europe, for becoming an eu member state. so my hope is that this year will further accelerate the enlargement process
mr president, mr commissioner, in north macedonia, the language of hate has now moved into a new phase, namely, hate-based actions. and i remind you of the core of the copenhagen criteria: respect for human rights. you are fully aware that for decades the rights of bulgarians in north macedonia have been violated. they're breaking up, they're breaking up, they're breaking up. you know the latest incidents: attempted murder, stopping the free passage of bulgarians across the border and others. my specific question is: will you take action on the latest incident at the border? and second, will north macedonia change its constitution and when, so as to give rights to bulgarians in it?
member of the commission. – i think what we have seen around 4 february, which happens to be the birthday of the common leader, the two countries, gotse delchev, were not encouraging. i was hoping for something much more, something the leaders of the two countries have agreed, which is a common celebration of that day. and this is why i reached out over the phone to both of them. but unfortunately, this year i was not successful. but i do hope that next year there will be a common celebration. we have seen a government delegation from sofia arriving in skopje for the common celebration. maybe we can do next year without these events that took place in the in the border. but i must also confess that it is no easy task for the authorities in skopje to maintain calm and peace if there are provocations on their borders. so this is why i think we, together as european union, also this house, we should bring the message that history is common and they should celebrate the history as common as it was agreed between the two. and we need to do everything to bring down these tensions. and this is why it was so important that we have a very clear frame and set of criteria also embedded in the accession process that needs delivering. and this is why i think that with this set of tools that we have at hand, we should be able to avoid any escalation or any worsening of these tensions between the two countries.
commissioner, i am pleased with your answer, but in this context, what you said last about the overall story makes me ask you again: do you have information, specifically from the government of north macedonia, whether a process of changing the content of the textbooks in the education system has been started? and in them, the bulgarians are no longer taught as enemies, fascists, barbarians, tatars and other lies that have been planted, i repeat, for decades by the authorities, the media and interested circles in this country. are the macedonians changing their history books according to the scientific, generally accepted scientific truth from all over europe?
mr president, i have a minute as short as minutes of silence. but if we were to hold a minute of silence for each of putin's victims, we wouldn't be saying a word this morning. and, if we read the list of those killed by putin, we wouldn't be done in four hours. this is not a war, this is genocide. this is a crime against humanity and it is not happening at the gates of europe, it is happening in europe, here and now. ukrainians today are as europeanist as the french or the germans were after the second world war. and for the same reasons. young people are being told that there is no peace without a price. to the democrats, freedom is won every day. and to europeans, that there are those who are willing to die for what brexit has despised: a europe of brothers working together. there will be no peace until we defeat the tyrant. europe is the hope of those peoples who are being massacred. that's why we're not giving up. we know the war may be long, but we cannot and will not surrender. i'm going to the ukrainian slava!
mr president, mr high commissioner, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is not a political union. in a few days' time - many colleagues have said this - we will be celebrating the first anniversary of russia's criminal attack on ukraine, and i can only bow in respect for the courage and the will to freedom of the ukrainian people. i'm going to the slav ukrajini. it is the eu's task - josep borrell said it - to strengthen this will to freedom by giving ukraine the means it needs: financial resources, humanitarian aid, military aid. it's important to me to emphasize all of these things because they go together. and in this context i wonder what role the numerous calls for arms deliveries to germany have played and still play in this house. after the conditions have been created, namely a joint action of the nato allies, germany delivers leopard 2 tanks in the dozens and leopard 1 tanks in the hundreds. and where are the allies? asked about the promises made by the allies of the so-called panzer coalition , the german defence minister says: "that's not that exhilarating". and just so we don't misunderstand each other, in german it's an ironic expression for the fact that the commitments are so far very clear. poland, norway and portugal are helping, but there is much more to be done. because support for ukraine must be a joint task. and if germany does this to the best of its ability, then the allies should stop hiding behind it.
president, commission president von der leyen, the war in ukraine has been raging for almost a year, with much human drama and suffering as a result. we too are suffering the consequences. i think we can all agree that this war must end, except for a few speakers who may be paid by authoritarian regimes and who i will not name. the only solution is a victory for ukraine and a europe with hair on its teeth. we must ensure that ukraine receives without delay the means it needs, including fighter jets, tanks and ammunition. we must also create a europe with hair on its teeth. several member states are currently considering how to improve their defence. however, this issue needs to be settled at eu level. mrs von der leyen, we must establish a defence union and a european military force without delay. finally, we are now in the tenth package of sanctions. we have a list of six thousand names, but nevertheless we add only a few banks and names to each new package. we have to add these six thousand names. let's all say to putin: putin, you will never win the war!
mr president, president von der leyen, high representative, one year after the start of the war, we have to say clearly thank you to the people of ukraine. the fight of the people of ukraine is heroic. it is an inspiration to all of us. it is an inspiration to the free world. and we have the duty to say thank you. our second duty is as long as the people of ukraine are fighting we have to help them. we have to support them with all we can. soon, fast. because between the time we make a decision and the moment support gets on the ground, time passes. so we need to accelerate the speed of our decisions. the choice is not between war and peace. war is a terrible thing. none of us like war. we all want peace. but the choice is between fighting or surrendering. and as long as the people of ukraine are fighting, it is our duty to stand by their side. and it is also our duty to tell to the people of europe that russia is failing. russia is losing militarily, economically, politically and morally. russia is talking about an imperialistic past which is long gone. we are building together a future for the people of ukraine, for the people of europe, and we are building it together. that’s the difference.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president von der leyen, mr borrell, one year after putin's criminal invasion, russia has not been able to crush the resistance of the ukrainian people. ukraine is fighting, fighting for independence and for the same values of democracy and freedom. and yet our aid has not succeeded in stopping the aggression and we have a duty, ladies and gentlemen, a duty to increase our support for kiev. and so it is worth asking ourselves here today how much our indecision, for example on military aid, is costing the ukrainian people. how much has it cost our international credibility? how much do inappropriate words like the one we heard yesterday, shameful, from silvio berlusconi, against zelensky, cost? i think i do a lot. so, alongside the great resources we have mobilised, our choices must be accompanied by courageous political choices to punish putin's criminal acts against the population and to support by all means the defence of ukraine's territorial integrity and guarantee its future within our union.
mr. president, we have been living through a year of a cruel and unjust war by russia against ukraine. unfortunately, the economic sanctions against russia did not have the expected result last year. i hope, however, that the latest measures we have taken on oil will have a positive effect. sanctions, as the new york times says, are a marathon, not a sprint; a slow poison, as mr borrell says, who this morning gave us some important figures on the retreat this month of the russian economy. in any case, we have not achieved the economic isolation of russia. there are states that help it to get the products it needs and that also buy oil and gas from it. in addition, they have improvised a fleet of cargo ships. it is very desirable that many of the countries which have condemned the aggression should also join our sanctions. but still, china and india contribute to the maintenance of the russian economy. i welcome the recent commitment by the european council to step up measures to combat sanctions evasion. we'll see the support and reach of the new un resolution. what we need to do is continue to weaken the russian economy so that it does not continue to fuel a machine of destruction and death.
mr president karas, we have been living through a year of putin's unjust and criminal war against ukraine. but it takes many years to remember a parliament whose large majority is so united in the leadership exercised by high representative borrell and president von der leyen. this parliament has supported humanitarian measures for displaced persons, it has supported the commitment to strategic autonomy and energy autonomy, it has supported the sanctions against russia and it also supports military aid to ukraine. not war-mongering. indeed, there is no contradiction. on the contrary, it reaffirms europe's commitment to peace: supporting the aggressor against the aggressor. but i am among those who, when they talk about the zeitenwende, 'change of the times', are confident that the european union will also take advantage of this leadership to be more united in building a cohesive common foreign, defence and security policy, to repair the social and economic cost of sanctions, including for the most vulnerable in the european union, and to recover the lost slogan of when we ratified the treaty of lisbon: 'a more perfect union'.
mr president, it is now one year since russia's brutal and criminal invasion of ukraine. during this war, the european union, together with the western allies, has shown unprecedented solidarity in the face of sanctions against russia and in helping ukraine, but this action must be strengthened. europe was too dependent on russian energy for too long, and that delayed the imposition of effective sanctions. i am very pleased that the tenth sanctions package is now being prepared. these sanctions must be tightened up. the eu is also committed to the development of a common defence policy, which will be based on the principles of the treaty of lisbon. these are urgently needed to help ukraine. the ukrainian people are fighting for freedom and democracy and they need all our support to do so. we must support ukraine in this fight and support its path towards membership of the european union.
mr president. thank you, high representative borrell, for your leadership on this and for your personal commitment in the past years. we have to stop giving ukraine just enough not to lose. we need to give ukraine what it needs to win as soon as possible. that’s our task. not after the summer. not next month. now! we have to stop the incrementalism on both the sanctions and the military support. now on the tanks, i want to ask you, high representative, if you can take an initiative to coordinate this, because since the decision about the tanks, we heard, ‘no, not the leased tanks. no, we have some tanks in the mothballs that we want to refurbish’. we need to coordinate this in a european way, in a european spirit, to get these tanks as soon as possible in ukraine and to also use currently operationally used tanks for that matter. so i would be very appreciative if you could take initiative on that. thank you. and slava ukraini!
mr. chairman, what have we learned in this one year? first, military aid, when given in a timely manner, is more necessary to peace than diplomacy. second, peace is possible only after the last russian aggressor leaves ukrainian soil. third, today, in the midst of war, talking about peace, actually helping putin. fourth, mr. borrell, you spoke convincingly today, but that's how you should have spoken a year ago in moscow. the lesson is that peace is impossible as long as putin is in the kremlin. finally, i hope that there will be worthy members of the bulgarian parliament who will demand the impeachment of the pro-russian bulgarian president.
madam president, the spyware scandal has shown of how little importance our fundamental rights are for some governments – in hungary, poland, cyprus, greece and spain. they have not only violated the right to privacy, but also the right to freedom of thought. pegasus, predator and whatever spyware comes next are used by democratic governments to treat political dissidents like dangerous terrorists. should journalists be treated like terrorists in a democratic state? should attorneys be spied on while defending political dissidents? should families and friends of politicians be on the secret services’ radar? no, of course not. i wish i didn’t have to state this in this parliament. we have the right to our freedom of thought. in greece, at least, this is under investigation – but not in spain, where catalangate has just been covered up. the commission has an obligation to put a stop to this.
madam speaker, what is the response of the prime minister of a european country, after months of eavesdropping on journalists, former and current ministers, political opposition leaders, nikos androulakis, the leader of pasok. "it's legal, but i didn't know", prime minister mitsotakis said. that's his answer. it's his responsibility. months before that, a law was passed putting the intelligence service under the control of the prime minister. but this isn't just another scandal. the eavesdropping on opponents, the use of spyware, now and in the future, is a major european problem. a government that seeks to control opposition and journalists can always put the violation of our rights in a legal framework. we've seen it in more than one country. and it is our responsibility, colleagues. it's our responsibility to make sure that doesn't happen. that's why it's so important to hear the answer from athens. how and why did you let this happen?
madam president dear evelyn regner , madam minister for european affairs dear jessika roswall , madam commissioner mairead mcguinness, the answer to the migration challenge is the migration and asylum pact. ladies and gentlemen, this is not a return to national reflexes. these are not simplistic solutions, like building walls. the pact is our best asset for establishing genuinely common rules between all member states, in accordance with our european principles and values. the pact provides rules to ensure access to international protection, to establish rapid asylum procedures, to organise returns and to manage our external borders effectively. these are the four things we must achieve at the same time. the adoption of this major reform before the european elections in may 2024 is a major imperative to finally bring about a european and courageous response, ladies and gentlemen, to the migration issue. i am convinced that we can achieve this together with the council. let's not take any more time.
madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, i have already said and i will say again: in the psd and the epp we strongly defend the dignity of all people, whether they are refugees, asylum seekers, economic migrants, foreign or european citizens. as pope john xxiii said, everyone is a person and that is why we only accept a migration policy and a border policy that are humanistic. fortunately, the consensus on respect for the dignity of all is very high in this parliament. the problem is that some political forces, in a populist and hypocritical way, want to exploit the issue of refugees and migrants for partisan purposes. the psd and the epp, because they respect the dignity of all and are aware of the complexity of this policy, do not make demagoguery, they do not preach one thing in brussels or strasbourg and do, like sánchez, another on the walls of ceuta and melilla. they don't do one thing here and another at copenhagen airport or the beaches of valletta. the epp does not approve a policy in the council, with all the prime ministers, including the socialists, and then comes here to announce other things in parliament. in europe, for demographic reasons, we need immigration. and when we talk about migrants, we don't talk about refugees. we want them to enter europe safely, with guarantees that they will not be exploited in the estates of the portuguese alentejo or crammed into an unconditional apartment in their 20s and 30s in the centre of lisbon. in portugal, the sef and the structures to help migration have been destroyed and now people swear by migrants and do not even care about their lives. this is not a humanist policy, this is not a policy with humanity. (the speaker accepts to reply to an intervention 'blue card')
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, mr paulo rangel has come here to talk about the contradictions of socialist leaders and the question i would like to ask him is whether he is in a position to assume, before this house, that the psd will completely reject the taboo breaking by its parliamentary leader so that the european union can finance the construction of walls and barbed wire in the european union with european funds?
the intervention response is a 'blue card'. madam president, mr president, first of all you have to ask prime minister sánchez why he has walls in ceuta and melilla. secondly, you must ask prime minister antónio costa why he has approved the council conclusions. that should be your question. and as for us, i can tell you that we do not need, in general terms, walls or fences. from the point of view of the psd, this policy is not necessary and certainly in portugal it is not necessary. now european funds are needed to deal with infrastructure, reception posts, control posts, drones, radars, investment in security forces and control forces. that is necessary. because that policy, the policy of the portuguese socialist party, you know what it led to? the death of two people in the center of lisbon, very recently. seven years of politics have now seen migrants from east asia living in their 20s and 30s in comrades throughout portugal, without any dignity. that is the humanist policy of the portuguese socialist party. so you have no moral authority to talk to us.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the asylum system has been undergoing reform for more than seven years. seven long years, during which we have seen national systems collapse under the pressure of populist movements exploiting human tragedies. and now, for the first time, we are on the verge of having a new asylum system in the european union. but we have very little time to take this last step. so we have to decide today, are we going to spend the next year hiding behind excuses and fears or are we going to do our job? if we are to exploit different solutions, let us meet and discuss! let us discuss this, colleagues. we - parliament, the council, the commission - must implement the road map. we need leadership, not excuses. no more excuses, colleagues!
madam president, lithium, copper, aluminium, iron, cobalt, nickel; the list could go on. we in europe need metals and minerals if we are serious about the green transition and tackling climate change. and it’s become painfully clear during the pandemic and the war in ukraine how reliant we are on russia and china and how dangerous though those dependencies are. if we are to be serious, we need mines and we need mines in europe. i really wish we could make batteries and turbines and windmills out of cotton candies and rainbows. but, colleagues, maybe it comes as a surprise to you, but you can’t. and that’s why we must stop shooting ourselves in the foot. we can’t, on one hand, say we want more raw materials and minerals and then, on the other hand, go regulate so it’s impossible to open a new mine in europe. we see this over and over again: in the nature restoration regulation; in the deforestation file; in the industrial emissions directive. over and over again, we’re making it impossible for industries to establish themselves in europe. we do this over and over again. if we continue to do that, we will be continuing to rely on russia and china, and that’s dangerous.
mr president, commissioner, minister, the russian invasion of ukraine has at last shown that europe cannot be too dependent on one producer. russia's dependence on fossil fuels must not be reduced to dependence on chinese raw materials. however, we now know that both the green transition in europe and digitalisation are very much dependent on imports, and specifically on raw materials from china. last year, only 1% of the raw materials needed for solar and wind power production and less than 1% of the raw materials needed for lithium batteries and fuel cells were produced in the eu. in the years ahead, the need for both will multiply. it is essential for europe's security and economic, as well as environmental and social sustainability, that we strengthen our own production and also create partnerships with the rest of the world. we have a lot of options. the commission has listed 30 critical raw materials for which we are very heavily dependent on imports. in my own country, finland, the soil contains 14 of these critical raw materials. we just need to speed up the permitting process so we can get mining going. it's not that environmental standards are the reason. the same applies to education, research and product development, and not only to the mining industry, but also to the processes, processing and recycling industries.
madam president, we need raw materials to reach the goals of the green transition in europe. without the secured supply, we would not be able to deliver our plans for net carbon neutrality. at the moment, at the next plenary session, we’re about to approve the parliament's position on the energy performance for building directive, which aims to renovate the eu building stock. this directive will create thousands of jobs. however, these jobs will depend on whether a supply of raw materials is available so we can ramp up the domestic production and make the renovation of the building stock possible. our industry needs the predictability so it can invest in the upcoming transformation. we should also guarantee the safety of our citizens with access to compatible, crucial raw materials. we see how many problems our countries are having with recently access to the fuel for their nuclear power plants. safety and affordability should be the main focus when we are making our choices for predictable supplies in the future.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, last thursday, the french minister of culture, rima abdul-malak, who should be the guarantor of freedom of expression, threatened to close down television channels in france. it was understood that she was criticising them for a lack of pluralism and for not treating judicial cases with moderation. is it necessary to recall that the editorial staff of each news channel sort the information? is it necessary to point out that cnews treats various facts differently from, for example, bfm-tv? it is true that cnews leaves room for topics related to the growing insecurity in france, often ignored by other channels. does this mean a lack of pluralism, or would it rather embarrass the french government? in any event, it seems to me that the minister has broken her duty of neutrality. its severe criticism of news channels is seen by many commentators as a direct attack on fundamental freedoms. before you stand here like white knights defending fundamental rights, some of you, dear colleagues, should start sweeping in front of your own door. what would not have been said if this had happened, for example, in hungary?
madam president, just as the autocrats in the kremlin continue to wage their war of aggression against the people of ukraine, they also continue in the persecution and oppression of the opposition, human rights defenders, and pro-democratic forces in russia. alexey navalny, the brave vladimir kara-murza and other political prisoners continue to face draconian conditions. i welcome that this house continues to be unwavering in its united stance in support of all political prisoners in russia. however, it is also crucial to support those russian human rights defenders and pro-democratic forces seeking shelter in our countries. this is why i find bewildering the recent decision by the georgian authorities to deny re-entry to anna rivina, the founder and director of nasiliu.net, an organisation providing services and shelter to victims of domestic violence. we must continue to support those who, like us, want to breathe freedom and want russia free of oppression.
madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, putin’s war against neighbours and so-called internal enemies is increasingly reminiscent of the stalin repressions and the rise of totalitarianism. in an environment of growing repressions, no one feels safe. the opposition is silenced by the prevailing fear, and the kremlin itself is gripped by the sense of uncertainty about its future. a policy of repression and intimidation in putin’s russia has imprisoned political opponents with trumped-up charges and life-threatening prison conditions. those who had a different vision of russia – navalny, kara-murza, yashin, dmitriyev, gorinov – were accused of high treason and of activities dangerous to society. it must be acknowledged that putin does not understand the european language, so only the language of sanctions and united pressure remains possible. this is the only way to protect political prisoners and remnants of civil society in russia.
madam president! i agree with all those who have stressed here that the abuse of navalny, the abuse of opposition representatives, journalists, the weak, is proof of this disgusting cowardice of putin. it is his cowardice and the cowardice of his regime that is expressed in his cruelty, in his abuse of anyone who is weak, anyone who opposes him. this is also expressed in the attack, the aggression against ukraine a country much smaller, much weaker, much poorer, but a country that is truly striving for democracy and is on its way to joining the european union. that's why putin and his regime murder, persecute, abuse every journalist, activist, politician, every citizen who hasn't been broken by this inhuman system. take a look at the photo of navalny i just posted on social media, before he was arrested and today. his body, which is suffering and it's possible that putin wants to end it in prison and is decaying, but his spirit will not be broken, and we will support him to the end.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the russian authoritarian government is using a range of tactics to detain and deter the work of democracy activists, critical voices, human rights defenders and so on. political trials, as well as restrictive legislation, are one of the primary tools of the russian authorities in dealing with political opposition figures and critical voices in today’s russia. the russian opposition politician alexei navalny is one of hundreds of political prisoners in russia, but his situation is unique and extremely concerning. from his prison cell, mr navalny courageously continues to speak out against the russian authorities’ suppression of freedom of expression and independent media. since last february, russia’s unjustified, unprovoked and illegal war of aggression against ukraine has only amplified russia’s internal repression and systematic crackdown on the kremlin’s critics and the civil society as a whole. let me once again reiterate the european union’s strongest possible condemnation of the poisoning of mr navalny. we have imposed sanctions on those involved in this assassination attempt. we have also imposed sanctions on those involved in his arbitrary arrest, in his prosecution and his sentencing. we will, together with our partners, continue to call on russia for navalny’s immediate and unconditional release because obviously his imprisonment is purely politically motivated. russia’s full—scale war of aggression against ukraine accelerated repression on the domestic scene, both in terms of more restrictive legislation and increased number of human rights violations. it took president putin just eight days following the start of the full—scale invasion on ukraine to sign a law introducing stiff prison sentences up to 15 years for, i quote, ‘public dissemination of false information about russian armed forces,’ end of quote. russian authorities have doubled down their efforts in cracking down on journalists, human rights defenders, activists and even random anti—war minded people, with the aim to silence any criticism of the aggression against ukraine or telling the truth about the atrocities that the russian army is committing there. the european union stands by and continues to support the russian civil society, independent media, human rights defenders, political prisoners and all russian citizens who, despite the deepening crackdown, continue to defend the human rights in russia and oppose authoritarianism and war, and they do so at great personal risk.
madam president, i welcome today’s support for the resolution concerning the health of georgia's ex-president, mikheil saakashvili. once again, the message of this house to the georgian authorities is clear: allow mikheil saakashvili to undergo medical treatment abroad without delay, in accordance with article 283 of the criminal procedure code of georgia. also, let me thank colleagues for supporting our calls to sanction bidzina ivanishvili for his role in the deterioration of this political process in georgia. the oligarch bears primary responsibility for the situation, and the eu should act accordingly.
madam president, i condemn any violence in the strongest terms. it is our duty to find effective solutions to violence against women, to train the police and those who are the first point of contact for such women, for example, and to properly implement our legislation, which according to experts is good in slovakia but not properly and consistently implemented. but the so-called istanbul convention and all the debate around it is not helping the goal of eliminating violence against women and domestic violence. the convention has no support among member states, and instead of talking about rapid assistance for victims, we are talking about how to force member states to adopt the convention quickly. however, it should be recalled that the reason why the slovak republic has not ratified this document is the ideologization of the whole problem and the gross interference in the moral and cultural-ethical spheres and legislation. i am absolutely opposed to this kind of action, which literally makes fun of those who face violence on a daily basis.
the first item on the agenda is the commission statement on the development of an eu strategy on cycling
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the commission would like to thank you for the opportunity to provide a statement on the draft resolution of this parliament to boost cycling as a mode of transport in cities and regions across europe. the commission fully agrees that cycling presents a huge potential for climate change mitigation, offering an alternative to motorised trips, in particular in cities. it can alleviate the congestion and air quality problems in urban areas, while at the same time bringing about health benefits associated with more active lifestyles and remaining an affordable mode of transport. cycling also represents a key european industry, with an important growth potential. today, e-bikes sold in europe are mainly built in europe. we need to ensure that this continues while considering the whole value chain, including components. importantly, it contributes to the ongoing co-creation process of the mobility transition pathway. in general, bicycle use has been on the rise in many eu cities over recent years, and the commission would like this momentum to continue. there are initiatives to boost cycling. the sustainable and smart mobility strategy provides for a significant increase in the length of cycling infrastructure and for the more effective inclusion of cycling as one of the ten-t last-mile solutions. cycling also has an important place in the new eu urban mobility framework of 2021. its role and potential is also well reflected in many other initiatives such as eu save energy of the repowereu initiative. moreover, we all know that cycling has a visible place in the awareness raising campaign of the european mobility week. all these show that the commission fully recognises the crucial importance of cycling in our transport system. i’m sure that we can also count on the recently established commission expert group on urban mobility that gathers member states, local and regional authorities, as well as urban mobility stakeholders to deliver recommendations on the best practices and possible actions to encourage active mobility. as for taking cycling into due account when building or upgrading the ten-t infrastructure, let me underline that the ten-t regulation can and should have a recommendation to include cycling infrastructure where possible. this is what the commission proposed. to improve the energy performance of public buildings, the commission also proposed the minimum availability of charging and parking places for electric bikes. this parliament’s resolution would give important political backing to these proposals. finally and importantly, the proposed requirements in the revised ten-t regulation regarding the adoption of sustainable urban mobility plans by the major cities should result in the accelerated growth of cycling share across the european union because that is where the action to promote cycling will start and is already underway in our cities and regions. however, among cyclists there is a worrying upward trend in road deaths. while the overall number of deaths fell by 23 % between 2010 and 2019, the number of cyclists killed actually increased in that period by 3 %. while one can point to an increase in the number of people cycling, safety is a fundamental issue to be tackled. people will not get on their bikes unless they feel safe to do so. building safe cycling infrastructure is therefore part of the answer but we need to do more. we can and should promote safe cycling better through a variety of channels such as the european road safety charter and the eu road safety exchange programme, whereby member states with less experience in developing safe cycling infrastructure are paired with countries that are in the forefront. we also reward the best initiatives to educate and inform the public on cycling safety through our annual eu road safety awards. we agree that the enforcement of relevant traffic rules is a vital element in keeping cyclists safe. while this is very much a member state competence, we work with enforcement authorities and with police forces to foster mutual learning. regarding the guidance and quality requirements for high-quality and safe cycling infrastructure, provided for under the road infrastructure safety directive, we will launch a further study into this important method later this year, and we will establish a dedicated subgroup of the expert group on road infrastructure safety management to help us with this task. in conclusion, let me thank you for your continued efforts to make cycling in the european union more popular. the commission stands with you in that mission.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, dear commissioner, colleagues, i have the easiest task today to represent the largest conservative group here, epp, and to connect this with cycling strategy. of course, there is nothing more conservative than taking care about your health and find the easiest, the cheapest and the smartest way to commute in the city. of course, cycling has enormous benefits, not only those i just said, but protecting the environment, less pollution, less congestion on the road. saying that, there is nothing more conservative than taking care of an industry which represents one million jobs and has the potential to increase by two million jobs in the next 10 years. moreover, it’s represented by 1 000 small and medium enterprises. remind me if i’m forgetting something, but europe is not leading in the world when it comes to many different industries. here we have a chance to change that, to invest in infrastructure which will allow our producers to produce better models, new quality bikes, and to have a bigger market in europe. i think the next phase of the ‘made in europe’ initiative could be focused on bikes as well. there is plenty of european manufacturers who can compete with their colleagues in china, the us or other states. however, we have a lot of issues to solve. infrastructure is not developed the way it should be. and we all know the risk that coexisting of cyclists and cars in the same place hides. so, we should encourage not only the member states, but the local authorities to invest specifically in cycling infrastructure which is going to allow safe place for all those who would like to ride bikes and without any interference with the traffic on the road. i think that the intelligent transport systems shall seek to improve the recognition of cyclists on the road. education campaigns should be launched, starting from the commission. guidelines of how the cyclists could coexist with the rest of the traffic on the streets. and mainly encourage all local authorities, using eu funds provided by the regional development fund and cohesion fund, to invest in infrastructure which will allow all those who would like to ride bikes to do it in europe with european bikes.
on behalf of the s&d group. in fact, bicycles embody everything that we want to achieve with the green transformation: decarbonisation, and decarbonisation by example, improving the health of eu citizens, reducing congestion, reducing noise in cities. the colleague has already spoken about the economic benefits, about the large market that can be created, about the additional one million new sustainable jobs that will improve the welfare of the citizens of the european union. but there's one aspect that you missed: accessibility. after all, it is the cheapest and most accessible form of transportation, and even the poor can benefit from it. and this is extremely important. and maybe one more thing, the surrounding infrastructure. in many places in europe, it is simply lacking. in my country, there are so many road accident victims, including cyclists. this strategy to save one human life, we've done our job.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, first let me thank you for inviting me to this debate today. i want to start by thanking the rapporteur ciarán cuffe and all honourable members of parliament involved, so that this work led us to adoption of a very high quality report. we have just marked one—year anniversary of our repowereu agenda, and we have come very far in building an energy system that is more secure and less dependent on russian fossil fuels. but clearly, there is no time to lose for strengthening our security of supply and energy sovereignty. a stronger eu framework on energy efficiency will help us stay on course to reach our 2030 energy and climate targets, and it will help turn temporary energy savings into structural efficiency, it will support industry’s competitiveness. we agreed last week to the revision of the energy efficiency directive. reviewing the energy performance of buildings is the next and crucial part of achieving our goal. buildings are the biggest consumer of energy in the eu. that’s why, in simple words, it is indispensable and urgent to take action here. our repowereu strategy shows the way forward. we need robust provisions where it matters most and, in particular, on minimum energy performance standards, phase out of fossil fuel boilers, and zero—emission standards for new buildings. the current pace of energy renovation is simply too slow. if we do not change gear, the eu will miss an economic opportunity. renovation is, in our view, not a cost – it is an investment. the epbd recast puts forward areas for priority actions, and sets out clear policy instruments to deliver a modern building stock in a gradual and reasonable way. let me mention three of them.first, the minimum energy performance standards. the aim is to start renovating the worst-performing buildings, those where every inhabitant faces energy bills that are highest, and often those where the most disadvantaged people are living. second, the provision on zero—emission buildings for new constructions aims to deploy the best technologies where it is the easiest. and third, strengthening energy performance certificates is essential to give consumers, both building owners and tenants, clear and credible information. with the right information, they can make informed decisions on the most effective actions to take to renovate their buildings. honourable members, the view on the energy performance of buildings directive plays a key role in our strategy for a cost-effective transition to net zero. higher energy performing buildings are better places to live, have lower energy costs, and generate benefits for our society as a whole. i welcome the report and ambition this parliament shows in this area, and i look forward to our exchange.
rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. madam president, commissioner, colleagues, the policy of renovating our building stock achieves an extremely wide range of objectives at the same time. first, it has enormous social benefits, reducing the costs for businesses, families and citizens alike. secondly, it has an undeniable positive effect on the environment, and a significant positive effect. third, but not least, it has a huge geopolitical effect, by supporting the energy independence of the european union and by supporting our efforts to economically isolate the aggressive russian empire. it is therefore not surprising that in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, although after difficult negotiations, we have reached a serious compromise in support of this directive. as rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i would only stress that our agreement is based primarily not on administrative coercion, but on the idea that support for the renovation of buildings is natural. it benefits the whole of society - both the tenants and the poor landlords, who we have paid particular attention to, a massive problem in eastern europe. and i would particularly like to highlight what has been carried over from our report to the main report of the committee on industry, research and energy: the 'pay as you save' schemes which will help everyone to take advantage of the opportunity to renovate their property.
on behalf of the ppe group. – a uachtaráin, commissioner, i’m pleased i left home at 02.00 this morning to get here for this debate and previously for the epp discussion on the same. the energy crisis has shown us how vulnerable europe is to sudden energy price hikes. even after this crisis is over, gas prices will remain significantly higher than before 2022. the new normal will hit the pockets of people in the worst performing buildings up to 10 times harder than in energy efficient buildings. i have heard from colleagues that the expansion of the ets and an upscaling of renewable energy should be enough. but alone these are not enough or technically feasible to reach our 2030 and 2050 climate goals. only complemented by increased renovations and structural measures in the building sector can we do this. and that is what the epbd is designed to do. yet the epbd should not be a one-size-fits-all approach as buildings do not move across borders. therefore, it is right that member states have sufficient degrees of flexibility to ensure cost effectiveness, particularly when it comes to ev infrastructure. colleagues are right that this will take massive investment, and i have been encouraged to see the interest and the engagement of the financial sector. it is fundamental that we get proper access to finance for people and i think we have achieved this in the epbd. the real enforcement mechanism will be, of course, the market itself. the epbd is as much about asset protection as it is about climate change, where investments see tangible and predictable returns. lastly, the epbd also holds the significant added value of job creation if implemented: 18 000 long-term secure jobs will be created for every billion invested in energy efficiency, for example. these are very important facts. finally, i urge you all to vote in favour of this very important file tomorrow.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, dear commissioner simson, dear colleagues, the directive on energy performance of buildings is probably one of the most relatable legislation from the fit for 55 package to our citizens. we all know how the energy bills skyrocketed last year, and we do all understand that if we consume less, we’re going to save more. for countries where the energy and heating bills take the majority of the monthly expenses, any improvement in the building efficiency will lead to more money saved for any other needs. this is why we have to support the epbd. it paves the way for the reduction of our energy consumption and our bills. it focuses on lifting our households from energy poverty. it also insists on the member states to ring-fence dedicated funds for renovation, and at the same time it gives flexibility to the member states to adapt the targets depending on their economic and social situation. it also offers flexibility for derogation when it comes to the labour workers, to the construction sector, but at the same time it keeps the ambitious goals of reaching the climate targets we have set and protecting from energy poverty our citizens. it imposes no penalties on the european citizens and households, and it insists that the vulnerable households should be supported so they bear no cost for renovations. i urge you to support the epbd tomorrow.
madam president, mr vice-president, colleagues, there is a paradox, and that is that the success of european climate policy will not be measured in percentage terms in the 50s, or the 55s, or the 57s, or the 2030s, or the 2032s. it will be measured in economic efficiency success, which can make this policy attractive to the whole world and so really help us in the fight against climate. and here's a very simple test that we're facing. first, we need to see if this policy can be attractive to the poorer, economically less developed countries within our union itself. it's the test that will determine her ultimate success. and here i have to say that i'm an optimist. there is a huge potential for economic development in central and eastern europe based on the european climate law. we have huge opportunities for both critical materials mining and battery production and hydrogen production, and not just renewable energy production, but to bring back the production of renewable energy on the european continent. we also have considerable potential in the work on electric motors, not to mention that the electric cars of the future will be imported into europe. but i want to make a point here. my country, bulgaria, has so far reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by over 40 percent since the 1990s, but not because of modern technological development, but because of deindustrialization. and here especially for effort sharing regulation we have to pay very careful attention, to assess whether it is really fair and whether it is attractive and opens up opportunities for countries like bulgaria.
i'm not going to tell you. digitalization is changing and will change our lives. therefore, to improve the overall digital situation in the european union, we need above all to improve the infrastructure, digital skills and the right digital framework in data. and that's what this important data act is about, because we're going to be processing more and more data. access to data will be key to new ideas and their implementation, especially by the small firms that create the most jobs. if we are to remain competitive in the world and reflect the evolving reality of digitalisation, we must learn to use available industrial data effectively, especially in the area of sharing it. the data act is a comprehensive package that offers options for working with data in a way that really makes the most of it while maintaining european standards for its protection. today we use only 20% of industrial information and we expect the new rules to enable industrial data to be used and improved to contribute an additional 270 billion to european gdp. i think it is important to: first, remove barriers to data sharing; second, improve transparency; and third, clear terms for private data sharing by the public sector. working with data will determine our economic development and the right legal framework can make a significant contribution to this.
madam president, dear commissioner breton, dear colleagues, data has become one of the most valuable resources in today’s world. in an environment where the technology is all around us, data is the key asset that can drive innovation and growth in the economy and that can upscale businesses and enhance customer driven solutions. the eu has proven once again that it can lead and pave the way when it comes to providing the right legislative framework. the data act sets clear goals to achieve the digital transition. it will foster the eu data market where the allocation of iot data is fair and just for the benefit of the consumers and the businesses. it will allow for more opportunities for growth, even for the smallest players in our economy, for the smes and for the startups. and, last but not least, it will incentivise innovation. this is the first time when we can actually have data as a measurable asset in our economy and we should be proud of that.
in writing. the eu faces a huge number of challenges today - on the one hand, those arising from the green deal's ambitious goals on the environment and digitalisation, and on the other, europe's energy dependence and galloping inflation rooted in the russian attack on ukraine. the union must demonstrate that it is resilient and has a prosperous operating model that can cope with crises. we need more investment in digital transition and climate-neutral industries. the eu must ensure affordable energy for all european citizens. at the same time, it is time to respond to the social crisis. the rate of youth unemployment is still too high, and one reason for this is the lack of skills. 2023 is the year of skills. that is why i call on national parliaments to invest more in young people, helping them develop their skills so that they can unleash their potential. at the same time, the eu and the member states must do what is necessary to overcome poverty, especially child poverty. it is unacceptable in the modern world that our children are deprived of their basic needs. ambitious and consistent policies are needed to enable the eu to respond more quickly and adequately to crises!
dear commissioner, in the summer of 2022, we faced a real perfect storm in the european energy system with the problems that blocked french nuclear power plants, with the drought which impeded hydropower on a european level, with heat and subsequent peak consumption of electricity and, of course, the main reason, the war in ukraine and the disruption of gas markets. in this period, we relied heavily on coal generation, which was for really a short period crucial and economically feasible, which it’s normally not. so my main question is, does the commission have any plans of sustaining coal generation as a critical strategic reserve in times of heavy crisis like we faced? or, if not, what other type of emergency crisis measures do you have in mind?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. yes, of course, the criticism that we use two weights and two measures is met with every day. yes, you defend the territorial integrity of ukraine, but what do you do to defend the territorial integrity of the palestinian territories occupied by israel, for example? i get that question every day. i was in india, i think, just last week, at the g20 meeting in new delhi, and many of our international partners say that they are for peace, but they are for peace in a consistent, coherent way, and we are for peace in a selective way, and they keep giving examples. and you have cited the example of the iraq war, which was certainly one of the first times that force was used outside the framework of the united nations. that is why many european states did not follow the united states into that war. i have nothing new to say to you about what you are asking me now. as far as i know, there's nothing on the table. but i do echo that criticism, which i think we have to be sensitive to. we must be consistent and - as one of our partners said - we must defend things consistently and coherently.
mr borrell, unfortunately you are obliged to have a global outlook and try to answer questions concerning different regions of the world. what about latin america? it is of strategic importance to the united states of america and, of course, to the european union. we have a lot of issues, developments in mexico, in brazil, in argentina. so could you please summarise to us the points of convergence with the strategy and the policies of washington and some points of divergence?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. when we talk about the transatlantic relationship, everyone understands that it is the relationship between europe and the united states, but that is only the north transatlantic relationship. there is another transatlantic relationship, because latin america is also on the other side of the atlantic. so we should be talking about two transatlantic relations: north and south. for us in the south, the relationship with the latin american subcontinent should be much more important than it is. historically, the united states and europe have seen latin america very differently: the united states with the monroe doctrine, this is my area of influence, this is my backyard, no one gets in here and i have a certain right, in spanish we would say in a very chaste way, and europe is an old colonial power in latin america, in particular, in some countries and, in particular, the one i know best. so our relationship is nothing like it. in latin america, the united states is still reproached for its support for military dictatorships in the southern cone: operation condor, chile, argentina, brazil. i remember it very well. today the political landscape in latin america has changed. a new left has emerged. the new left in colombia, in chile, a second edition of the left of lula in brazil, still the permanence of the left peronist in argentina and the andean massif. all of this paints a scenario in which we have to find our way and engage more with latin america, regardless of what the united states does, which has done a lot, but surely from a different perspective.
mr. chairman, the transatlantic relationship, mr. borrell, has to guarantee regional and global security. the instrument of such security is the membership of the countries in nato. that's my question. we want to admit new countries to the european union, but should not these countries first become members of nato? until now, all the countries of the former communist bloc that were admitted to the european union had previously become members of nato. and my question is specifically about the republic of serbia, which is currently the country that is forming russian influence in the western balkans region and whose policies are also destabilising neighbouring countries such as north macedonia, kosovo, bosnia and herzegovina. membership of nato as a security tool in transatlantic relations.
madam president, commissioner, it was very interesting and a good overview that you have presented to us. i just want to bring attention to two things. the first one is the fact that the banks that have collapsed have significant investments in start-up and technology companies, which of course is going to have a serious impact on the sector. so hence, i’m calling for a more stable regulatory environment when we speak about the eu market that protects start-ups and facilitates the protection of investors and capital going in that direction. that’s the first point. and the second point is based on something that you have said that we should be careful and more diligent when we are applying stricter rules when it comes to banks operating in the eu market, but they originate from abroad. based on that, i urge you to have a look at our relationship with the uk and to strike a deal there because the financial sector is quite significantly dependent. the european financial sector is dependent on the uk one and we need a proper deal and regulation there.
(the president declared the common position approved as amended) president. - madam commissioner, you have seen the discussion, the arguments are wide-ranging and very rich. you're at liberty to draw your own conclusions.
member of the commission. – madam president, this has been a really important debate, so thank you all very much for the contributions that you’ve made. and to say very clearly that we all know there is no room for complacency and that we do need to look and to learn lessons. but, to repeat a core point that i make frequently, the visitors in this chamber today, they know that we are responsible for financial stability. that’s in the core of my mandate, and i take that very, very seriously, as colleagues in this house do. so it’s very important that we do watch and see what happened in the us. we will continue to monitor very closely all of the events. also, i thank you for your support on the crisis management and deposit insurance proposal, which will come very soon. we will have an ambitious proposal and i would really urge for your support for our ambitions in this area. this is the year in which we mark 30 years of the single market, and i’m sad to say that we have not a single market in capital. we have not completed banking union. we have not completed capital markets union. we either look at that as a problem or an opportunity. and i see it as a real opportunity. to the point about the tech sector in europe needing finance, this is a really important issue and if we complete our capital markets union, we will provide that finance in europe to allow start—ups to grow up. and i think the points were very, very well made. so we remain ambitious for the financial sector. we remain very conscious and cautious about the new environment that we are living in, and we will reflect very closely on what has happened in the us, mindful that we are negotiating the banking package. i have to say, in the first trialogue, under the stewardship of the chair of the cont committee, ms tinagli, the atmosphere was very good for a positive outcome and i hope that that will continue, and we as a commission will support you in that. and the points made about being faithful to basel implementation, i would absolutely support all of those. we have time in this mandate to develop the single market for capital. we will not complete it in this mandate, but i think we should collectively want to make huge progress. and i urge and thank you in advance for your support for that objective.
the debate is closed. i would like to thank all those who have contributed so much to the debate. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. in recent weeks, we have been following with concern the collapse of the silicon valley bank in the united states and its impact on the european economy. it goes without saying that the situation is serious, for the united states is the world's largest economy and its banking challenges affect the entire world. central banks around the world have been raising interest rates at an unusual pace, and this is soon to be reflected in the daily lives of europeans. the measures taken in the wake of the financial crisis ten years ago, such as the european stability mechanism and its crisis fund, have significantly increased europe's economic stability. however, the likelihood of a new large-scale financial crisis is very low, as the broad sector stabilisation and regulatory reforms since the previous financial crisis have strengthened confidence in the european financial market and its sustainability. the worst is yet to come and the ecb must do everything it can to preserve financial stability and avoid a new banking crisis in europe.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on strengthening the eu's defence against the background of the war in ukraine: accelerating the production and supply of arms and ammunition to ukraine (2023/2609 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you for raising the issue of speeding up the production and delivery of weapons and ammunition to ukraine. it comes very timely and only a few days after a crucial discussion on the issue at the stockholm informal meeting of defence ministers. at the moment, ukraine continues to face russia’s brutal war of aggression with significant casualties amongst the civilian population and regular and indiscriminate attacks on civilian and critical infrastructure. the situation on the ground remains therefore critical, and that was the message that the ukrainian minister of defence reznikov gave to his eu colleagues last week in stockholm. it is absolutely clear that that ukraine’s ability to protect its territorial integrity depends to a high degree of military assistance, in particular from the eu and member states. we have already made a large contribution to expand the number of western artillery systems, in particular 155 mm-calibre systems, because the reality is that ukraine is still outnumbered by russian troops. this is why eu defence ministers at the meeting in stockholm welcomed the high representative’s proposal for a three-track approach that will serve two key objectives: to speed up the delivery and to ensure the joint procurement of artillery ammunition for ukraine. the first track is european peace facility (epf) assistance measure to incentivise member states to deliver ammunition to ukraine from their stocks. the second track is another epf assistant measure to facilitate the joint procurement of ammunition, building on a project of the european defence agency or via a lead nation procuring on behalf of at least three member states. regarding the third track, ministers are broadly in favour of measures to help the industry, address supply chain bottlenecks and ramp up production. such measures are key for the immediate assistance to ukraine but also for the long-term development of the european defence industry. we therefore look forward to the concrete measures that the commission is working on to this effect. the details of the three-track approach are currently being discussed in the council and ministers will return to this issue at the foreign affairs council on 20 march. it is the presidency expectation that we will be able to reach a political agreement on the main aspects. let me finish by underlining, in broader terms, that the swedish presidency is absolutely committed to continuing to provide eu support to ukraine on all various domains and across the various council formations. i am sure that we can count on parliament’s strong support for our endeavours. thank you very much for your attention and i look forward to the debate.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you, minister, jessika, thank you, colleagues, i take this debate on behalf of my colleague, commissioner breton and hr/vp borrell. and as we know, over the last year the entire european union has mobilised all its tools in support of ukraine, including considerable military support. a conservative estimate puts eu member states’ collective effort and support at eur 12 billion. however, the ukrainian minister of defence has informed us that they have an urgent need to ensure the stable supply of 155 mm artillery ammunition. this urgent need calls for coordinated european response and that is what the commission, together with the high representative and the european defence agency, have recently proposed an ambitious, pragmatic and rapid response around three intrinsically linked areas: immediately transfer ammunition from existing stockpiles; structure demand by placing massive orders with european industry, covering both the needs of ukraine and those of member states; increase european production capacity massively and rapidly, which is a prerequisite for these orders to be met. to provide ukraine with the right support at speed we need to act in parallel on these three axes. without an increase in industrial production, we will not create confidence for member states to transfer more ammunition from their stocks. we want them to know that those stocks will be replenished fast in the face of a threat that is likely to last. the defence joint procurement task force has established a fairly precise industrial mapping of ammunition production capacities, particularly for artillery shells. we identified 15 producers in the 11 member states. we also know that the current eu production capacity is larger than in many of our non-eu partners. however, almost all of this production is already contracted. the good news is that the potential of eu industry to produce 155 mm ammunition remains significant, and we need to unlock this potential. signing large contracts consolidated at european level will send the appropriate signal to industry to take action, but this is not a guarantee of delivery on time. our industrial objectives are clear: reduce production time and increase production volumes and, above all, secure the earliest possible availability of the required volumes. in order to do this, we need to support an increase in capacity and address bottlenecks, especially in the value chain. we need to monitor industrial ramp-up efforts and ensure contracting of industrial production conditions. the commission is ready to mobilise its regulatory clout and the available resources as appropriate to support the defence industry to ramp up. we are working on all options, including mobilising the eu budget if needed. more specifically, we recently put on the table the european defence industry reinforcement through common procurement act. this short-term instrument with eur 500 million could be used to accelerate industrial production of the required ammunition. the support of parliament to reach swift agreement will be essential. if necessary, we are also ready to mobilise other resources. at the same time, we need to be able to mobilise private finance, including from the eib and banks. to that end, member state support will be essential. finally, we know what industry is doing today. now we need to know what they will do tomorrow and what they could do tomorrow. in that light, commissioner breton has started to visit each of the 15 companies identified by the task force to discuss with them directly and understand their constraints and to see how to help them increase their production capacity. thank you. i look forward to the debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, commissioner, minister, indeed, time is of the essence to effectively counter the aggressor and for the ukrainians to push him back from ukrainian territory. and we have lost time. too much time last year because the reality was that many member states, including my own, remained too passive for too long, in spite of strong verbal commitments. the netherlands – to name one positive example – in 2022 purchased twice as much ammunition in germany than the german army itself. while denmark, already in june last year, refurbished m113 transport tanks in a german company in flensburg for ukraine, the german government did not give the order to start the refurbishing of 100 leopard 1 tanks that were stocked in the very same factory, ffg, where the danish tanks were already refurbished. that practice must end. i hope that last week’s stockholm informal discussion will lead to decisions that are swiftly implemented, especially for the ammunition that is so desperately needed. and i hope that our industry is really pulling all strings, ramping up capacities and not waiting until they are tasked by whatever government. i can assure them your products will be needed and therefore be purchased for a long period because we cannot assume that the evil empire will perish soon. and we need to deliver to ukraine as long as it takes for ukraine to win. and we need to replenish our stocks in time as soon as possible in order to be able to defend ourselves. last year, already with a colleague, sven simon, we published an article in the german handelsblatt suggesting we should think of a european lend-lease act, the one that the united states had already in the second world war to be able to swiftly supply britain and other allies with the needed weapons. perhaps you might embark on such a reflection again, a european lend-lease act, which would facilitate enormously the purchasing. we need to do what we can as long as it takes. slava ukraini!
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, commissioner, minister, we are all aware of our long-standing problems in defence: duplication of resources, lack of coordination and collective action, and low speed of developing them jointly. for a long time, there was no real need nor political will. now there is a both but we have institutional obstacles that prevent us from doing it at the needed speed. the inability of the allies to supply ukraine with sufficient resources would be a decisive factor in this war. we should do all possible to avoid this scenario. our political goal should be clear: we should not only help ukraine to resist russian offensive actions, we need to supply ukraine to win this war. more resources allocation and reorientation of existing defence production to meet the current needs are essential. in the past year, we have shown that we can act together. let us not make our efforts go in vain. slava ukraini!
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i have to say, if my colleagues had been so determined a few years ago, this war would not have happened in the first place. we wouldn't have to say "glory to ukraine" because ukraine wouldn't be the object of russian aggression. there was a time, not so long ago, when the military, the defense industry, seemed to be obsolete, especially the traditional types of weapons, the armored weapons, the artillery, the territorial troops. and europe was living in an absurd sense of security. in berlin, in paris, in brussels, they believed in the power of persuasion, in (unintelligible words) trade, in the good intentions of russia. only we in central eastern europe could not understand it. and today it turns out that there is not enough ammunition, and also the capacity to produce it quickly, that the supposed industrial power, the european union, does not have the means to support ukraine quickly - maybe now we will start - in its fight, that it is necessary to repair old tanks that have rusted so far quietly. and it turns out that you need an army that is capable of defending territory and conducting conventional warfare and that the military is not just for conducting a peacekeeping mission. so we must, first of all, ensure that ukraine is supplied with ammunition and military equipment as quickly as possible. and we agree on that. and i am glad that this decision of the defence ministers was rightly taken outside the european parliament, because we would only be wasting a lot of time, and unfortunately the example of edirpy proves it. secondly, we also need to rebuild and develop the defence industries of european countries in a long-term strategy. and here we need to work with the european parliament. thirdly, we must work towards a common strategic culture among the european nations, drawing lessons from the mistakes of the appeasement policies of recent decades. without a common strategic culture, there will be no real common security policy or common foreign policy.
madam president, colleagues, today everyone is talking about peace in ukraine and they are loading ammunition into the arms of ukraine. europe has become a supplier, and it should be a leader, offering solutions... (the chairman interrupts the speaker because of the noise in the hall.)
sorry, i would like you to start again, please. and i just really say to those quarrelling not to do so here in the plenary. we listen to the speakers. so if you could start again, please.
madam president, colleagues, today everyone is talking about peace in ukraine and they are loading ammunition into the arms of ukraine. europe has become a supplier, and it should be a leader, offering solutions. europeans do not want war in europe. the countries that were meant to be on the front line of defense don't want war. the bulgarians also do not want to be dragged into this conflict and we all want, insist that this cruelty, this brutality in ukraine be ended. a wise world leader, pope francis, recently told us: "the end of war can only be achieved through concrete peace initiatives". we have sent billions of dollars in aid to ukraine and yet, yet the escalation is escalating. ceasefire, compromise is the only way to save ukraine and prevent it from self-destructing. there will be no winners in this war. no one has ever won a war against a massive nuclear power. the european union was created to keep the peace. maybe we still have a chance to do that. i might have.
madam chairman, the last few months have proven that no one is immune to corruption. she has no political preferences, no favorite country, no favorite institution. but in this situation, there is. i see three problems from the point of view of the european project and two solutions. firstly, we cannot use the european parliament to cover up for someone who has abused his powers or his position. secondly, we can't put a responsibility on him that he doesn't have. the european parliament is neither an investigating body, nor a prosecutor's office, nor an investigation. and thirdly, we cannot use the european parliament as a springboard, for political populism, for cheap political dividends, and have the people in this building pay the price. and so the solutions are simple an independent investigation by competent authorities to determine if there is a problem with these trips once. and second, to make clear rules that are not based on moral criteria. we have to be clear about what's allowed and what's not so we don't get into these ridiculous situations.
mr president, commissioner, the european citizens' initiatives are one of the most enriching instruments and demonstrations of the vitality of civic participation by our citizens, and that is why my first word is a strong and special greeting to all the authors of this initiative. the protection of pollinators is vital for the future of agricultural production and our food security, in particular with regard to crop diversity. farmers are deeply committed to building systems that are more in balance with nature, but to do so they need support and concrete alternatives in the fight against pests and diseases. reducing the risk and use of pesticides is an unquestionable path. we therefore need to invest heavily in biological control methods and other non-chemical methods, and in the counselling of our farmers, in particular by strengthening the networks of warning systems. in this context, the systematic and comprehensive implementation of integrated protection in the european union is undoubtedly one of the most powerful weapons at our disposal. but we need - stress - a clear commitment from all, and that means a strong investment by all member states in this area.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. we've actually been talking for years about finally doing something to stop the species from going extinct. we're talking about dramatic numbers: 70 percent of insects are disappearing, field birds are disappearing. as soon as the commission comes out with the first initiative to reduce pesticides by 50%, then the agro-industry goes, then copa-cogeca goes and then some conservatives go into high gear to prevent that. that's not really acceptable. of course, you also need to know why. there's a billion-dollar business in pesticides, and we shouldn't forget that. so many are interested in doing nothing to reduce pesticide use. i would also like to make it clear that if some of my colleagues come and say that everything should remain as it is, that we would then only have to have genetic engineering on top, then i think that is very bold. i also think it is fatal that a european court should finally force member states to abandon the emergency use of neonicotinoids. madam president, neonicotinoids are not medicines, they are highly toxic pesticides. i'm curious to see what comes out of the re-evaluation of glyphosate, whether we actually have environmental interests that prevail or economic interests. so let's do something and stop waiting! it's about time.
mr. chairman, a decidedly exotic debate against the backdrop of inflation, bank failures and war in europe. there's talk of bees and other things, and i'm tempted, colleagues, and those who have spoken, to ask you how many of you have seen a hive live? what's a frame hoist, what's a shop, what's a winch, what's a feeder? but we won't be tested, so we won't be embarrassed. but civic initiatives are a good thing when they're spoken by people who know what they're talking about. otherwise, people are watching general tales on tv right now, like "bees are our friends". they must be your friends. i don't know. at least i've seen them in person. however, speaking in this way, what leaves an impression on citizens and taxpayers is that this parliament is dealing with things it does not understand and talking about things it does not understand. once again, there's agricultural producers against people who raise bees, farmers. it is talking about pesticides and other such things by people who have not seen them live, and this gives all the grounds for euroscepticism to people outside. we heard the kids were out. if someone who keeps bees, has hives, looks at this conversation, they'll think that some people are wasting their time. that's it.
mr president, i too appreciate this initiative and am glad that the citizens of the czech republic are also involved. the czech republic has made great strides in reducing pesticides in recent years. between 2011 and 2020, farmers reduced their pesticide use by 38%. and that is, i think, a great advance. i take this challenge very seriously because the objectives it represents are common. they are important for bees, for farmers, for us - for citizens and for life on this planet in general. these objectives can be summarised as: reducing pesticides, using pesticides, increasing biodiversity and supporting farmers. we have a review of the pesticide regulations on the table. and i think that this regulation can be completed, but certain conditions must be met. first of all, the commission must complete the impact assessment, including the impact on production. especially in these critical times is this a vital requirement. we need to provide farmers with alternatives: bio-pesticides and the use of new genomic techniques. i'm taking advantage of the fact that the commissioner is here. we expect the commission to bring forward new legislation to open up the possibilities of using new genomic techniques. finally, the regulation should set different national targets precisely according to the developments in the individual member states. ladies and gentlemen, food security, self-sufficiency and the competitiveness of european farmers must not be mere slogans for us. let's prove it to him.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is a very positive thing that citizens can help to shape our agenda, because citizens' initiatives force us to engage in debate with each other, and that can be a stimulus to policy-making. democratic renewal with clear potential. but at the same time, it proves that it is our duty as policy makers to develop legislation realistically afterwards, weighing different interests. citizens' initiatives are allowed to launch ambitious proposals. we must consider its effects on our nature, on our food production, on the socioeconomic well-being of our farmers - and indeed the wider picture. i'm missing a little nuance in the debate today. the commission's figures on pesticides are clear. the use and risk of chemical pesticides decreases every year. for example, if we zoom in on a country like belgium, we see clear progress compared to the years 2015-2017. so first of all, let us continue to work with farmers on a feasible and realistic path to further reduce the negative effects of pesticide use. let us also look at less harmful but also affordable alternatives and exploit the potential of new genetic engineering. and finally, for pollinators, let's also look beyond just pesticide use. if we want to protect pollinators, we must also look at the impact of the asian hornet, for example, which is becoming more and more of a challenge for our farmers.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is a success of our democratic functioning and a proof that every citizen has the right to participate in the life of the union. the health of pollinators is one of the most urgent warning signs against which the union must take a leading role: bees are farmers' first ally and european farmers recognise this key role. in fact, in recent decades we have seen a decline in the use of pesticides, which has led to some countries even halving their use, such as italy. not only that: but thanks to the environmental dimension of the cap, today more than 10% of the arable land in the union is dedicated to the protection of biodiversity. but we can and must do more. that is why, commissioner, we must make available to european farmers all those technological and innovative solutions, starting with sustainable biotechnologies, which are alternatives to the use of chemicals which are harmful to pollinators. these are ambitious choices, but only this way can we safeguard more than three quarters of the food that comes to our table, and which, without bees, would not exist.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is there life beyond bees? the survival of four out of five species of flowering plants depends on pollinators, who contribute to the balance of our ecosystem. environment, health, economy: it is also thanks to pollinators that products essential for a healthy and balanced diet arrive on our tables. fewer pollinators means less stability of the entire food supply chain and less productivity in the sector. initiatives like this send a message that we cannot ignore: one in ten bee and butterfly species is endangered. we need to preserve biodiversity, restore pollinator habitats, promote favourable farming practices and ensure a more sustainable use of plant protection products, while providing our farmers with viable alternatives. the new pollinators' pact, presented by the commission, is an important step forward: but we have to act on all levels. i quote from spoleto, my hometown in umbria: a year ago, a bio-hotel was opened, and the goal is to become a bee city. this is one of the best practices that we often talk about. each of us must do our part to preserve our guardians of biodiversity.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when i was a kid, the windshields of cars were full of bugs and bees when you drove through the summer countryside. it was a sign of a healthy and diverse ecosystem. but that's not the case anymore. insects and bees are endangered, not least because of our reckless use of pesticides. over 10 years ago, we in this house passed stricter regulations on the use of pesticides. it was supposed to reduce the use of pesticides and protect biodiversity and our precious ecosystems. today it is clear to all of us that we have not reached that goal. the science and the eu's own court of auditors have made it abundantly clear: not enough has been done. it is essential that we reduce the use of pesticides and transform our economy and production to a greener and non-toxic food system. and as we have called for here in the farm to fork strategy, action is needed. the citizens' initiative says so too, and i agree with them. it is therefore essential that the ongoing review of the pesticide directive ensures that we reduce its use, for the benefit of bees and for the benefit of future generations.
a uachtaráin, the title of this is pleasing: save bees and farmers. because i have a feeling if it was a few years ago, it would be ‘save bees’, with no reference to farmers. now we recognise clearly that they are interdependent. you can’t save one without the other. in fairness to the new cap, it does try and support farmers in this regard because the space for nature and biodiversity measures reward farmers for helping to create a better environment for all bees and all other aspects in nature. and as a result, of course, we hope we will have more bees buzzing about europe accordingly. however, i would like to address one point made by mep avram, from s&d, when she said argentina and brazil were doubling the use of their pesticides. now, if we’re going to do deals with those, that has to be taken into account, and i think the commission should look carefully and analyse what she said and establish the facts.
mr. chairman, it goes without saying how important bees are. we've heard it enough in this debate. i'm going to focus on three specific suggestions of what and how we should do. firstly, in order to really help beekeepers and enable them to produce quality bee products, the strictest measures must be taken to ban all pesticides that have been shown to have a negative impact on bee health. secondly, it is time to change the philosophy of european programmes to help beekeepers. they should not be directed at large producers but at individual farmers and small family farms. and thirdly, but not least, let us ensure that honey is bought at an adequate price and fight against the unregulated import of poor quality bee products from third countries. our beekeepers deserve to be supported and paid for their work.
mr president, the emissions trading scheme now under discussion is one of the most effective climate tools in the european union. it has also been shown in studies to be a very technology-neutral and market-based way of reducing emissions. now that the objective has been set of reducing emissions by 62% by 2030 through this ets, we must at the same time ensure that our companies are competitive and that this does not lead to carbon leakage outside the european union. emissions trading will also be extended to maritime transport. i would like to thank parliament for taking account of the special circumstances of finland. due to winter navigation, finnish shipping always has to use ice-strengthened vessels, which are heavier and consume more fuel. it is great that parliament has understood these special circumstances and that compensation is included in this calculation model. the emissions trading system will also be tightened up for aviation, and in aviation, as in maritime transport, it is important that we act at international level, because it is not enough to tighten up emissions trading within the european union for these global sectors, but we must involve the whole world. road transport and buildings will also be included in the emissions trading scheme, and the proceeds from these will be used to finance the social climate fund. i must say that i have been and still am very critical of the social climate fund. we already have funds in the european union to support the green transition, to support the just transition. it is essential that these funds be used effectively and that no new funds be created.
mr president, only a few decades ago, natural resources seemed inexhaustible to our predecessors, and so they rarely showed any interest in producing in accordance with the earth's capacity. today, the global environmental crisis, resulting in severe climate change, threatens the very existence of mankind. through the unwise use of resources, human civilizations have themselves caused irreversible changes in the environment, resulting in their own extinction. and it's naive to assume that we can avoid this fate if we don't change our attitude towards nature. today, climate change, resource depletion and pollution have reached a critical point. as much as we don't want to, after overproduction and overconsumption, we're going to have to put limits on it. and if we want to give the generations after us a chance in the end, if we want the future to be possible tomorrow, we're going to have to take risks and maybe pay a high price. but it cannot compare, i mean the cost, with the casualties we count in every fire, drought or flood. victims that will only increase if we keep delaying. it is our responsibility not to waste this chance, which may be one of our last, and i hope that everyone in this room is aware of what is at stake, how the laws discussed today cannot be delayed. these, especially with a look at the vulnerable, the poor and the working people and how and how limited the time we actually have to implement all these measures.
mr. chairman, many people joked recently that russia is a gas station with nuclear missiles. it sounded funny. today, china is filling up at a russian gas station, and we're left with the fear of missiles. this is the result of our strategic short-sightedness and lack of will to play europe's part in global politics. europe is culture, social model and equality. today it is torn between the poles of euro-atlanticism and the new geopolitical ambitions of the east. it is an illusion to think that in the new world we will preserve european freedom and prosperity under a foreign umbrella. our democracy and our economy are already deteriorating. i believe that the debate on europe's strategic autonomy is urgent. he's late, but he's needed. the challenge is to balance our allied relations with the united states, to establish a productive dialogue with china and to propose our own european initiative to get out of the war in ukraine.
mr president we are a few days away from the holocaust and international roma day commemorations, and it is almost 20 years since i first spoke in parliament on behalf of roma, and then in 2006, 10, 14 and 21 we adopted reports in different committees so that the european commission can present to the european council as strong a document as possible, the european roma strategy. however, since then, not only has the commission not fulfilled all the elements of our proposals at that time, but our situation has become very difficult. it's not just the war, it's not just covid, and it's not just inflation that's further exacerbating the education issues, the housing issues, the employment issues. hundreds of thousands of jobs have been lost, roma people are starving, and i think it is very, very important that we celebrate european roma day in this parliament next week, as we do every year, and i would be very pleased if all the parties were represented and could make their proposals in this difficult situation, so that the next presidencies can strengthen the council with a new report so that we can start again with the eradication of poverty.
mr president, romanian farmers are fighting for survival, given that the current european commissioner for agriculture, supported by the eurosceptic parties in europe, including the representatives of the extremist parties in romania in the european parliament, is unable to offer adequate solutions to the problems they face. under the leadership of the eurosceptic commissioner, romania has been discriminated against in the allocation of funds to support farmers. speculators take advantage of cheap grain and war-ravaged farmers. food prices have gone up exponentially, and ukrainian agricultural products aren't even getting to where they need to be. that's what anti-europeans do when they get into key positions in europe. together with the social democratic party and pes activists romania, we have come up with solutions to the current crisis in agriculture and we will initiate a campaign to support romanian farmers and those living in the countryside, because the european left is fighting for an inclusive, democratic europe that cares about everyone's fate.
mr president, last week europol published, together with the port security committees in antwerp, hamburg, bremen and rotterdam, a report confirming the progress of drug trafficking networks in the european union. the coordination of networks of corrupt port employees and the misappropriation of container codes are now facilitating the introduction into the union of tonnes of drugs and other illegal goods. these are disturbing data that certify that the technicalization and criminal innovation is prevailing. it coincides with the increase in violent crime, with the negative impact of drugs on health, on the functioning of various economic sectors and the impact that our consumption has on the development of particularly depressed areas of the world. the european drug action plan for this five-year period called for a tangible impact by 2025 on both supply and demand reduction and the dismantling of criminal organisations. reports such as europol's call for a comprehensive, holistic, coordinated and multidisciplinary european strategy against drugs to become a priority in the union for the next five years.
mr president, if there is an intellectual terror today, it is the one that attacks the ability of the palestinian people to defend themselves. where are the big voices? but it is true that there are no longer loud voices to denounce the violence committed by the israeli army in the middle of ramadan in the al-aqsa mosque in jerusalem. where are the great and good european consciences to condemn the far-right government of israel, which is fuelling hatred against the christians of jerusalem, victims of the past few days, as you know, of unspeakable violence during easter, committed by fanatical settlers? if this continues, there will be nothing left of the status of jerusalem. the passionate voices of democracy and freedom are silent. their silence is their deception. and i will conclude by saying that the savagery of the minds in europe is accompanied by indifference to the savagery of the world.
mr president, dear colleagues, i would like to ask how many more ukrainian athletes must die for the international olympic committee to exclude russia and belarus from the olympic games. the recent delay in the final decision only creates a way for russian and belarusian athletes to go through the qualification. moreover, ukraine’s sport ministry has banned its athletes from competing in international competitions involving russia and belarus. this is a win for russia: no ukrainians in paris in 2024, only russians waving their so-called neutral flag. i raise this issue again and i will do so until the president of the ioc, thomas bach, finally understands that the only flag russia should use is the white one on the battlefield.
mr president, the european union has been the dream of generations, a community that guarantees peace, freedom and prosperity. today, however, we have allowed doubt to settle in, doubt whether brussels is fighting for the interests of the european citizens. adhering to a policy of strategic autonomy, fighting to create an independent union is the path to peace. the militarization of part of our continent is the road to destruction. today, our american partners are considering two bills that propose a new strategy for the black sea region. the establishment of a permanent military presence in the black sea is envisaged, the validity of the montreux convention, which limits the military presence of countries outside the region, is called into question. and today we do not hear what is the position of brussels. does he have any position, strategy? will it allow the black sea region to become a war zone and thus turn the whole of the european union into a war zone?
mr. chairman, it would be a strategic mistake to view our relationship with china solely through the lens of trade and economic interests. we must not forget about human rights and democracy. the dangerous thing is the argument for strategic autonomy from the united states. the chinese regime is a threat to both the united states and europe, and that threat is a reality. the communists are determined to annex taiwan by force, using russia's example with ukraine. the doctrine of a united china means the elimination of a democratic taiwan. we must not allow the western world to be divided, because if business succeeds but democracy suffers, it will mean a crisis of our values and of the european way of life.
madam president, dear commissioner, dear members, we’ve seen the rise of the energy prices across all the member states in the last 18 months. the only lesson we’ve learned is that the best security of supply is our own domestic production. so hence the trend is clear. we are going towards the electrification of many sectors in our economy. it is clear that the renewable energy is the cheapest one. however, it’s also the most volatile one and it’s difficult and expensive to be stored. that’s why to balance and to ensure a safe and balanced electricity system, we need baseload power such as nuclear. we need to find a balance between investment in renewables, investment in baseload and investment in innovation for storage capacity and inventions. in that sense, we welcome the latest effort of the commission to boost investments in the entire value chain of battery manufacturing in the eu, because this is also the only way to ensure that we’re going to have sustainable energy resources for our economy. this is also going to be a crucial part in our net zero industry act, which is another important piece of legislation to be worked on in this house.
mr. chairman, there are many crimes of the kremlin regime, but the war crime we are discussing - the forced deportation to russia of ukrainian children and their forced russification - is the height of anti-humanity and violation of human rights. it is comparable only to the crimes of hitler, stalin and mao zedong. the decision of the hague court to issue a lifetime arrest warrant for president putin must be implemented by all european countries. after this decision, vladimir putin can only join the european union on the way to the hague. this is a late decision, but it's fair. it is a moral victory for the brave ukrainian people. the arrest warrant for the russian president is a warning to all other dictators and aggressors around the world.
madam chair, ladies and gentlemen, when you pay with your card, only your bank knows about the payment. when you make a smart payment through your phone, the central system that ultimately controls the government knows it. are you sure you want to give politicians information about all your transactions and give them the ability to ultimately control or restrict them? you think that's impossible? just think of the covid measures and how the politicians have limited you. do you think it's impossible that they'll limit your transactions in the future if, say, they conclude that you're producing too much co2 or eating too much meat and not enough insects? ask my colleagues on the left. many of them will tell you that such restrictions would be justified for the sake of the planet or the welfare of animals. clearly, smart payments are easier than credit cards or cash, but leaving your house unlocked when you leave is easier than locking it, so you lock it anyway. so don't be naive, keep your credit cards and cash. digital money and smart payments are a complete loss of your fundamental freedoms.
mr president, in the debate on the digital euro, one question is not really answered: who's waiting for it? the digital euro gives people direct access to the european central bank. okay, they can make payments there and maybe become less dependent on commercial banks. but fortunately, most people in europe have excellent access to existing forms of payment. they're also very efficient. so why would we need the digital euro? should citizens be protected from the power of big banks? the central bank itself states that the financial position of these banks should not be jeopardised by the digital euro. i hear people on the other side saying, what will the digital euro bring us? i hear skepticism and mistrust. and that skepticism and mistrust is directly related to questions about privacy, about programmability and about the possible mandatory nature of this digital euro. i assume that the ecb treats all of them with dignity and trust. but is anyone waiting for this new project, which also brings new problems and mistrust? i don't need the digital euro. we are dealing here mainly with a solution to a non-existent problem.
madam president, colleagues, i am among those who see the introduction of the digital euro as a meaningful opportunity for europe. i see it as well as a chance to strengthen the international role of the euro. the important question for me is whether the eu should focus its efforts on modernising the digital form of the euro for a wholesale purpose, or implement a retail digital euro first. at present, discussions in the euro system seem to be mainly focused on the retail option, but addressing the wholesale version could be easier and quicker as it would concern large—value payments, and these are common amongst euro system banks and counterparties which already have the necessary infrastructure in place. with the exception of china and a few others, our global counterparts are focusing on the wholesale version of the digital currency. for both options, interoperability with other currencies will be a key aspect. cbdcs can make cross-border payments cheaper, faster and more efficiently settled compared with current payment systems. making the digital euro usable for cross-border payments will significantly increase its international attractiveness. i also think that it is critically important that the regulatory framework for the digital euro is fit for the future. that implies that the regulation that the commission will present and the infrastructure that the ecb will build should not stifle future innovation, but rather be flexible enough to accommodate and incentivise future technological changes. to this end, it is fundamental that european union authorities draw on the knowledge and experience of the private sector and provide them with a framework that they can leverage to develop new value—added services for citizens and businesses.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is right and necessary that we address the issues of a central bank digital currency, the so-called digital euro. it is also necessary that the european central bank is currently conducting a comprehensive, results-oriented audit. first, because over 90 percent of central banks worldwide are working on digital currencies, pilot projects have been launched in 12 countries, and nine countries already have a central bank digital currency. secondly, because the payment systems we have today - visa, mastercard and others - are either national or international but not european, and because we have to work on a european payment system that is europe-wide. and third, because we're facing a variety of innovations, from cryptocurrencies to tokens. it is therefore clear that the digital euro, the digital central bank money, is only a complementary means of payment, which is faster, simpler and more secure. it is also clear that without a legal basis, there can be no digital currency. these can only be adopted jointly by the european parliament and the council of the member states. the citizens have the last word, and it has not yet been said.
madam president, commissioner mcguinness, i would first of all like to thank you for presenting today the commission's proposal, or what you think the digital euro should be. it is also important to emphasise to the citizens of the european union that this is actually the first debate we are having in the european parliament on the digital euro, and it certainly does not mean that we are introducing it, nor that we agree or disagree with it, but it is a real debate. we're really seeing the growth of cryptocurrencies around the world, and this is actually our answer to that. but really, if it's enough for us that it's because everyone else is doing it, are we going to do it? i think that in today's debate, too, it has been said many times that we need a clear definition of what the digital euro will be better than the euro we use, so that we can explain it to the citizens of the european union. it is also very clear to our political group that it is important that the digital euro is secure, that it is easy to use, that the protection of deposits and the protection of users of this currency are protected, and that the protection of buyers, and above all their privacy, is protected when they use this euro. so i think it's positive that we're discussing it, but we should definitely define what the added value is and why we're going to use it, why we should use it, and whether it's really going to be perceived positively by our citizens. this is certainly important, because we as politicians may have an opinion, but it's the citizens who will use it.
member of the commission. – madam president, this has been a really lively and very useful and important discussion. now, whether you’re for or against, sceptical or an enthusiast for a potential digital euro, it is a political project and this parliament is having its say and that will continue as it should. mr ferber, i think, is not in the chamber, but he asked a very big question, which, as a former journalist, i used to ask all the time: why? and i would say to this because we already have a very digitalised financial system and we need to look ahead and make sure that the digital euro is fit for the future. but let me just try and imagine, had we never been discussing a digital euro right now. so if it was not on the agenda and no preparations were being done. in a few years’ time, i think this house would be asking: why not? why did you not prepare for the possibility of a digital central bank currency in europe? i also note the study prepared by parliament for the econ committee, with a very catchy headline. it says ‘digital euro: when in doubt, abstain, but be prepared’. and i think that’s exactly what we are doing today and what we’ve been doing with the ecb over the last number of months. and it is still a work in progress. but i want to talk about cash because in my view, citizens, young and old, appreciate cash and appreciate choice. they may use a wallet for digital payments, but they appreciate access to cash. and i think it’s important to outline what we are doing when it comes to protecting the right to have access to cash. issues concerning the acceptance of cash and access to it have emerged right across a number of our member states, and it can lead to issues for people, particularly vulnerable groups. so unless we safeguard the acceptance of and access to cash, the effectiveness of legal tender could be undermined. if the commission decides to grant legal tender status to the digital euro and define its meaning, we believe that we need to do the same for cash. so in the second quarter, the commission will also propose a regulation on the legal tender status of euro cash based. the legislative proposal will be based on the 2021 ecj new ruling judgment, which defines three key principles of legal tender: mandatory acceptance at full face value and the power to discharge payment obligations. i think when it comes to the issue of privacy, this was raised rightly by members in the house here and it is a very important topic, because privacy is a fundamental right and it’s a highly valued issue for citizens. and this has been clearly substantiated by the ecb consultation and our targeted consultation. we are also mindful of providing a solid framework to efficiently and effectively fight against money laundering and terrorism financing. so the regulation will aim to ensure that these objectives can be reconciled. so, for example, we could have an offline use to do proximity payments, peer-to-peer payments, and this would be important for citizens and in particular for unbanked people, as referenced in the debate. these offline payments could offer higher privacy. on the issue which was raised and rightly by mep hübner on retail versus wholesale, the commission is examining central bank digital currencies in the broad sense, so the current work is focusing on a retail digital euro, which is also in the regulatory competence of the commission. that said, the wholesale use of a digital euro in security settlements can also be of interest. the question also about the role of the euro for the future, the international role of the euro, the open strategic autonomy. all of these topics raised today are hugely important. i repeat the point that the digital euro needs a strong democratic underpinning, and parliament’s views and support are essential within and beyond the legislative process. the digital euro will ensure the continued availability of central bank money and payments, and this will protect the stability of our monetary and payment system and ensure our open strategic autonomy. the digital euro would be an additional pan-european choice available for payments, and we will aim to ensure competition with the private payment sector and to avoid the disintermediation of banks. let me just say something very clear in case you’ve missed it. this is not a big brother project or indeed a big sister project. but why does big brother sound much more alarming than big sister? but i say that in all sincerity and with some humour. i respect those who have that view. but frankly, i would ask us to calm down a little. we should not address this issue to citizens in this chamber as any sense of a project of control. it’s a project of choice. it’s also recognising that the citizens in this chamber, many of them use cash and digital payments and will want to continue to do that. we do have a euro, which is a unique currency for the eurozone, and it’s very important that we do keep it fit for the future. i dare say i have not convinced those who see it as that awesome project of control, but i hope the vast majority of members in this house will view this debate as the start of a very important conversation, which you will, i’m sure, engage with your constituencies and citizens, and that we will continue this debate until such time as the legislative process is before you.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, i’ve listened very carefully and with great interest to this debate. our exchange today has shown the importance that our institutions attach to the digital euro project and setting an appropriate regulatory framework that addresses both opportunities and risks for our citizens, for our businesses and for our economy at large. a potential digital euro should build on the already established values within the union of an efficient, safe, affordable and accessible payment system. our discussion today has shown that these issues should deserve our attention once we start examining the forthcoming commission proposal. and as many of you have pointed out – and as the commissioner very clearly also said and i pointed out in my first intervention – it is important that this is an inclusive project. it will affect our citizens and our businesses and, therefore, it has to be built on a solid democratic basis. but thank you very much for this debate and thank you for your attention.
that concludes the debate.
the next item is the debate on council and commission statements on ‘dieselgate – suspected widespread use of defeat devices in cars to reduce effectiveness of pollution control systems’ (2023/2647(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner. air pollution remains, despite all efforts and improvements, the largest environment environmental health risk in europe. diesel vehicles are a major contributor to poor air quality, due to high nitrogen oxide emissions, and have a harmful effect on both human health and ecosystems. the dieselgate scandal in 2015 was an important catalyst for the extensive emission testing of diesel cars, as well as for greater public scrutiny of the car industry. in this respect, i would like to recognise the work of parliament and its committee of inquiry into emission measurement in the automotive sector (emis) and committee on environment, public health and food safety (envi) to achieve greater transparency in the automotive sector. i would also like to recall that we have made significant progress since 2015 to accelerate the green transition in the transport sector, for example, through the decision to ban the sale of new diesel and petrol cars from 2035. the very recent report from the international council on clean transportation has revealed the widespread use of defeat devices in euro 5 and euro 6 diesel cars manufactured before the real-driving emissions test procedure was implemented. the use of these devices has also been the object of a ruling by the european court of justice, which consider them illegal. a series of improvements have been implemented in the latest steps of the euro 6 to prevent unauthorised use of defeat devices, for example, the real-driving emissions test procedure. in this context, first of all, it remains important to check and sanction the use of defeat devices altering the performance of vehicle emission control systems. secondly, when it comes to future cars, the council has started working on the recent commission proposal for a euro 7 regulation, which introduces more comprehensive testing requirements for future vehicle certification. the swedish presidency is committed to advancing negotiations on this file. i am convinced that both institutions are working towards the same objective, namely to prevent any future exhaust gas manipulation by any prohibited defeat devices. it is our duty to protect our citizens, their health, and consumer rights. thank you very much for the attention, and i am looking forward to the debate.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear members of the parliament, i am standing in for commissioner breton. we all became aware of the misuse of defeat devices in the automotive industry in the context of the 2015 dieselgate scandal, when certain car manufacturers manipulated the emission control to pass the test foreseen by the legislation to prove compliance with their pollutant emission standards. later on, various investigations by member states have revealed the use of such devices by other manufacturers. since then, thanks also to the parliament’s efforts, the commission – within the limits of our enforcement powers at the time – and member states have taken several measures to sanction these practices and to prevent such a scandal from happening again. first, in 2016, the commission launched six infringement procedures against member states who initially failed to report the necessary legislation or to impose sanctions on manufacturers who had vehicle types approved that did not comply with the legal requirements foreseen. in the meantime, these procedures were closed as the relevant member states changed their legislation or impose the required penalties on the manufacturers. as of today, one case launched in 2017 against italy is not yet closed. the evaluation of the latest changes in the italian law are ongoing. second, the commission rapidly recognised the need to improve the market surveillance regulatory framework. as such, we complemented checks of vehicles on the market by national authorities with the european oversight of type—approval and market surveillance activities through checks to be carried out by the commission. third, we also changed the way how we react if it turns out that rules have been broken. this includes the possibility for the commission to initiate eu—wide recalls and impose fines of up to eur 30 000 per non-compliant car. these rules, however, only apply to new cars put on the market since september 2020. and fourth, we have fundamentally changed the way we handle vehicle—emission type—approval. that implies new and improved mandatory emission tests in the laboratory and in real driving situations. since these changes, vehicles are significantly cleaner than their predecessors. real driving emission testing has led to a considerable drop in the real amount of nox emissions, well below the legal limit. this is good for air quality, notably in urban areas with heavy traffic and above all, consumers are better informed of the real environmental performance of the vehicles they purchase. and finally, we also want to ensure that future generations of vehicles are developed according to the best environmental standards. this is why the commission adopted in november 2022 a proposal for euro 7, which sets new standards for air pollutant emissions from light and heavy duty vehicles, including from electric vehicles, which is currently under discussion by the european parliament and the council. on 22 march, the ngo icct – the international council on clean transportation – published a study on the emission behaviour of euro 5 and euro 6 vehicles. the study shows the results of emissions tests conducted by member states covering the period from 2016 to 2020 in the framework of national post—dieselgate investigations to reassess the excess nox emissions from european diesel cars. this study is complemented by tests performed by independent third parties and by an analysis of icct’s own database of roadside measurements that collects a snapshot of the emissions of vehicles as they pass by. the findings highlighted by the icct study are not new and are pointing to a legacy problem. most of the worst results covered in the study relate to vehicles that were type—approved and therefore put on the market before the introduction of the real driving emission test. as such, this study is a reminder of member states’ responsibility to take corrective action urgently, since for the fleet predating 1 september 2020, the responsibility to take action lies with the member states who have the legal possibility and responsibility to act. in this context, let me remind you that since 2015, the commission services have organised multiple discussions with member states’ authorities on the issue of prohibited defeat devices, reminding them of the obligation to investigate potential cases of non-compliance and to take all appropriate corrective measures. we have repeatedly called on member states to carry out investigations into the possible presence of defeat devices in vehicles on their territories and to ensure that eu pollutant emission standards were scrupulously respected. the commission also requested member states to identify the authors of the manipulations and apply national penalty procedures to sanction possible breaches of eu pollutant emissions rules. so far, member states have reported on the ongoing review process on the issue of type approvals, and this has not yet led to withdrawals or sanctions. and to finish, most recently, the commission updated on 24 february 2023 its guidance on the identified action of the presence of defeat devices, which helps member states to test vehicles for the identification of illegal defeat devices. the guidance helps interpreting the commission’s long—standing position confirmed by the decisions of the court of justice on illegal defeat devices that vehicles need to comply with the emission requirements in normal use, and that exceptions to this rule, including thermal windows, must be interpreted narrowly.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the icct report is something we should take seriously. and the judgment of the ecj. shut-off devices are only legal if they serve to protect the engine. this must be assessed on a case-by-case basis by the competent authorities. in germany, my home country, the federal motor transport authority is responsible for this. this is a sobering commentary on the icct report: the measurements are outdated and there have been numerous retrofits and recalls since then. so before some of us here get all worked up about the next campaign against the auto industry, let's look at the facts: the fact that european legislation has developed, particularly in the wake of the diesel scandal, that we are now examining it more rigorously and more precisely - the commissioner has just mentioned this - and that we are finally having real-world tests instead of just laboratory tests, is what we have been campaigning for as epp from the outset, including in the emis committee on exhaust gas investigations and in subsequent legislation. it is also a fact that air quality in the eu has improved significantly in recent years. the german federal environment agency itself has thus certified that there are virtually no exceedances of the applicable limit values in germany. in 2021, only 1% of urban measurement stations were found to exceed the nitrogen dioxide limit value. that's good news. in addition, fleet renewal and the switch to alternative propulsion systems are improving air quality even further each year. so if you are rushing or polarizing and if you are creating a new scandal, you should be honest that you have other intentions, that you are taking every opportunity to brand the automobile industry, that you do not care about the european automobile industry and the workers in this industry. it is the same ideology, the same hostility to technology, that has also driven the incinerator ban in this house.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i would like to thank the president-in-office. yes, in 2015, we were shocked by this scandal. violently shaken. cars emitted much more nox than they had to deliberately manipulated by parts of the industry to circumvent the requirements. and it was a scandal because the trust was broken. it was a scandal because we allowed people to die prematurely because cars pollute more than they should. this is totally unacceptable! fortunately, we took advantage of that time. in the european parliament we set up a committee to look at what had gone wrong and we reviewed our legislation, which meant that after all we have a better framework to ensure that this can be avoided in the future. but we still have a lot of cars out there polluting. but the thing is, we're gonna have to learn from this. we still have a lot of those old cars running around. it is unbelievable that we allow this and we still need to tighten the rules. and now we see again, when we are about to tighten the euro 7 rules, that the car industry once again comes to our house and says that it is not necessary, that it cannot be done, that it is too expensive and all sorts of things. i think we need to do a lot more. we need to learn from dieselgate. we're gonna have to test and monitor a lot more than we've done. the member states still have a responsibility, but so does the commission. and then we must have euro 7 legislation as soon as possible before the end of this mandate, even if there are some who do not want it to happen that way. and then we have to phase out the internal combustion engine, because that's the problem with this. with an internal combustion engine, you also get nox and other pollutant particles. of course, we have to do something about that. we need to show the citizens that we take them seriously, that we take health seriously, and that we take our own democracy seriously. that is why more needs to be done than has been done at the present time, and that is why i hope that this house will help to ensure that we are delivered on euro 7 standards - new standards are needed - and that we continue the progress we are making in phasing out polluting vehicles for the benefit of our health and for the benefit of confidence in our system.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, we all remember the dieselgate scandal, and that was not only about companies cheating on emission limits and misleading consumers, but also about governmental bodies from different member states not working together or turning a blind eye to the dishonest practices. now, thanks to the real driving emission tests, which we introduced, the extent of the damage done is very clearly visible. new rules and improved market surveillance of the automotive industry mean that such scandalous practices will not be possible in the future. however, we have to admit that the problem is not yet solved. there are still many cars on our roads with very high nox emissions, and most european consumers have not been compensated. the cheating was already eight years ago, and evidently the existing consumer redress does not function properly. this also needs a very serious overhaul.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, indeed, it’s a bit like groundhog day when we are discussing dieselgate again. and also when i hear the epp say we should not start a witch hunt, this is exactly the first reaction after dieselgate in 2015. not much changed in those 10 years, you would say. we’re not here on a witch hunt. we are here trying to establish the facts. and commissioner, you were a bit unclear, but you said basically yes, on this icct study, yes, we have a legacy problem. you call that a legacy problem? i call that a problem for the citizens’ health, for our citizens who are driving in cars that are illegal, having illegal devices in itself. so yes, i think it’s a legacy problem, but it’s a problem that we should take seriously. and for the rest you said there’s nothing new coming out of this study, so with that i conclude that you concur that 16 million cars on the european roads are still driving with cheating devices in it. that’s what you’re saying. so you are acknowledging that 16 million cars on the european roads are having illegal defeat devices in it, because that is important, meanwhile – things have changed, mr gieseke. also, many court cases have made clear that all the arguments of the car industry, ‘we need that software’, they have been dismissed. it is illegal. and all the arguments the car industry used to say why it was needed have been dismissed. defeat devices are illegal and the court cases have been very clear that even software updates that have been done, for example, by volkswagen have been declared illegal and insufficient. so then we do turn to the commission. yes, i know very well – i was there on all the changes that you did. but what are you going to do with those 16 million cars on the european roads that are having illegal defeat devices in it? what are you going to do to the car industry? are you going to make sure that they are required to do something about that so that our citizens are not suffering from that? and most importantly, are you going to require and are you going to assess what all the different recalls, which are just nationally diverse, what they have achieved until now? what is the effect of those recalls and those fixes? that’s the information that we want, and for the rest, we want a commission that is really tougher on maintaining european law – something the epp also always finds very important, last time i checked.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. in answering questions from my green colleague, i wondered why this was so. and i would like to go back to the origins of this affair and perhaps to the political context, because we are indeed dealing with a fraud on a global scale - a fraud that has not received the proper attention of the european commission despite everything we have heard, and of the european parliament. i don't recall any heated debates at that time, in the previous term. many of those defrauded received no compensation. they still drive those cars, as you rightly said. many of those responsible for the fraud have not been punished. perhaps the reason for this is that the automobile industry in germany has enormous political influence. this is particularly true of the volkswagen group, because it is where it all began. as we know, lower saxony holds 20% of the shares in volkswagen and its representatives sat on the board of volkswagen. among them was gerhard schröder - not a chadian, but a social democrat. the current president of the federal constitutional court, while a member of the bundestag, was a partner in the law firm schilling, zutt & anschütz, which advised and represented the volkswagen group in the diesel affair. fraud on this scale and the car companies' links with the political world have revealed, as have many other scandals in germany in recent years, the entire political system and the rule of law in a country that was considered a model of liberal democracy. so it was better to keep quiet and deal with the rule of law in poland, for example.
madam president, the report from the international council on clean transportation shows that nothing has changed since the dieselgate scandal in 2015. in fact, 77 per cent of tests still reveal so-called suspicious emissions, a figure which could be explained by the possibility that millions of diesel cars in europe use a tampering device. the ep's emis committee of inquiry revealed a lack of political will to act to protect air quality and public health, despite the fact that the european commission and the member states have known for more than a decade that there are discrepancies between laboratory and road nitrous oxide emissions tests. the different strategies suggesting the use of light and heavy vehicle manipulation systems, which have been the subject of judgments of the court of justice of the european union, were even described. then enough of this deception. the european institutions and the member states must choose between continuing to serve the interests of the motor lobby or safeguarding the environment and the health of citizens.
madam president, commissioner, less than a month ago, the european court of justice decided that car buyers may be entitled to compensation in the event of an illegal defeat device. and this is a fair decision because the consumers need to get their rights protected and i would say that this is the most important thing. the other important thing is that thermal windows are no longer allowed with euro 7. the reason for this problem was laid down in the euro 6, but this is – some people would say –basically a decision of the past. but there is one big problem, which is the reason for this debate, and this is the reporting of the icct, which shows that despite this huge scandal, despite the court ruling, there are still almost 17 million cars circulating which most likely still have the dieselgate defeat devices. nothing is being done to remove them or fix them. and this is absolutely unacceptable and we definitely need adequate and effective actions for that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it's very welcome that we have a body like the ipcc, where scientists give us crystal clear, clear knowledge of the situation. it's especially important because we now have an extreme right and a nationalist right trying to trump trump in the united states with their climate denial. then we need the ipcc, and the message is crystal clear: we need to accelerate the pace of emissions reductions. instead, there are governments like my own, the swedish government, that do the opposite. they're ignoring the ipcc, they're ignoring the science, and they're going in the wrong direction. fortunately, we have taken important decisions here in parliament this week to reduce emissions and to increase the pace of our transition work. however, that is not enough, and that is where the ipcc is clear. we must accelerate, we must increase energy efficiency and we must invest in renewables, not lock ourselves like silly children in a technology that is socially, economically and ecologically unsustainable, such as nuclear power. we have to do what moves us forward now. and the ipcc also says that the transition has to be fair, or we won't make it. that's one of the main messages of the ipcc. the transition requires more left-wing politics, more justice, more investment in the common, in the socially sustainable, in welfare, in education and in gender equality. that's where the future lies if we're going to survive the climate change.
mr president, the latest ipcc report underscores the urgency of the climate crisis. it presents findings on climate science, mitigation and adaptation, highlighting the need for immediate and ambitious action to limit global warming and its impacts. given the urgency reiterated in the report, we must now move beyond identifying possible solutions and take concrete steps to implement them. we have repeatedly underlined the fact that decarbonising our economy is the only viable solution to achieve our climate goals. to this end, we must find a way to fast—track the implementation of our eu plan. we cannot afford to waste any more time in our efforts to boost the production and use of renewable energy and retrofitting our buildings. planning, permitting, licensing must be speeded up rapidly. in addition to fast—tracking the deployment of renewable energy, it is crucial that the eu recognises the importance of climate finance, particularly in protecting climate—vulnerable communities. we need to ensure that such communities have resources and financial support in their efforts to build resilience and reduce emissions. finally, third countries, especially the big emitters, must also be compelled to do more and do it quicker as well. we must move to more action everywhere now.
mr. chairman, when a fire breaks out, we don't expect it to go away, but we do everything we can to put out the fire before it becomes a disaster. however, fires and floods have not bypassed europe in recent years. the lack of snow in winter has affected the ski season and the towns that depend on winter tourism for their livelihoods. in other parts of the world, drought has left hundreds of thousands of men, women, and children in poverty and hunger. and when we talk about the problem of migration, we can't help but wonder what some of these people are fleeing for, risking their lives. we cannot deny that the highest price for the mistakes of the guilty is paid by the innocent. those who have the least contribution to pollution, deforestation, depletion of natural resources. they don't generate tons of harmful emissions, but they have to think about their physical survival every day because they just can't put out the fire. as legislators, we are the ones who have the tools to do that. we must show leadership, if we have the will to do so.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the commission for the reasonably good and balanced proposal for the revision of the stability and growth pact. it addresses key challenges, such as increasing country specificity. it's reasonably realistic in its timeline. the commission has already made a number of proposals in the past, and i am sure that the commission will continue to make proposals in the future. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we all know that the gdp indicator is currently quite deficient, and so too with the debt and growth pact, we have to look at social and environmental capital and also analyse what is bad debt, for example fossil subsidies, and what is good, debt supporting the green transition.
mr president, commissioner, minister, you’ve all mentioned that investments and reforms are incentivised. here, i would just ask, how would we define strategic reforms? are they going to be green or are they going to be social? what’s going to be the focus? and how are we finding to strike the balance among member states? the worry we all have is, some of the rich member states would be capable of investing more, which is going to increase the discrepancies among member states and it contradicts with the main policy of the eu: cohesion. and the second part, what are the rules going to be on the reforms? we have the lessons from the rrf. europe is basically sitting on money at the moment. the conditionality and the complexity is affecting the efficient investment of this money. it’s probably no more than one third of the money from the rrf that has been properly put to use. and we should not allow this to happen – because then we are risking the growth and the sustainability of our economy.
madam president, more than three quarters of the enterprises in the european union are having difficulty finding workers with the necessary skills. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations. the world is changing. updating and modernising labour markets and education systems is needed. it's time to prepare for the professions of the future. it is fundamental to provide workers with the means to adapt to a constantly changing environment. and let's not forget the digital skills for the elderly. the european year of skills is coming just in time. this year is off to a good start, but the union's action in this direction must continue going forward, because the european union needs skilled people with knowledge and skills, and investing in knowledge and skills is investing in europe's future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the times we are living in are leading to increases in defence budgets in most member states. at present, more than 80% of defence purchases in the european union are still made on a national basis. edirpa offers us a new start, joint procurement opportunities where we can consolidate european demand. our market is organized mainly around small national enterprises. this is why i welcome the strong support for european smes through edirpa. at least 15% of the estimated value of the joint public procurement contracts will be allocated to our small and mediumsized enterprises. edirpa is indeed a short-term instrument, limited by low budgets, but i believe it will serve as a basis for giving more benefits to the smaller member states of the european union.
mr. chairman, it is clear that the majority in this chamber supports the goals of legislation for more and cheaper renewable energy, as well as for renewable energy that is environmentally friendly. but we will not achieve these goals by repeating populist, i would even say ideological clichés, but by pointing out the risks and shortcomings of the legislation that is before us. firstly, the limited definition of renewable energy, excluding for example the use of hydrogen sulphide in the black sea. secondly, and above all, the lack of a pan-european balancing infrastructure of the north-south priority corridors for electricity transmission to balance the peak periods of solar energy in southern europe and the peak periods of wind energy in northern europe. and last but not least, the risk of increasing gas dependence, the so-called gas lock of our energy system, which requires us to introduce a new generation of capacity mechanisms that allow the transition from coal to low-carbon energy without locking in the so-called new dangerous transition fuel.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
in writing. the protection of the quality and tradition of renowned handicraft and industrial products such as ceramics, clothing, jewellery, furniture, musical instruments, etc. is finally becoming a reality. productions that are strongly linked to certain areas and are characterised by particular know-how are part of the local identity and an invaluable cultural heritage. the new legal framework will not only allow consumers to recognise these products more easily and make more informed choices, but will also help to promote, attract and retain skills and jobs in the different regions of europe, contributing to tourism growth and economic development. one of the advantages for producers is the extension of protection at international level to third country markets which are parties to the geneva act of the world intellectual property organisation (wipo). to this end, the establishment of a simple and efficient registration procedure for geographical indications, together with appropriate assistance and support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, will be of key importance.
in writing. the protection of the cultural identity of the european union takes many forms. the handicraft and industrial products are a true calling card of europe's regional communities. these crafts, handed down from generation to generation, are now in danger of being forgotten. the regulation on the protection of geographical indications for handicrafts and industrial products is more than welcome. it is time to help producers protect their handicrafts and industrial products in europe and beyond. the proposed measures will help to increase the popularity of traditional products and from less developed regions, attract tourists, create jobs and preserve the local heritage. they will also ensure fair competition for producers by helping them to fight counterfeit products, while providing consumers with assurance that they will be buying a genuine product with specific qualities. it is necessary to reduce the administrative burden, simplify the procedures for the registration of handicraft products with a geographical indication, and ensure eu-wide protection for geographical indications of handicraft and industrial products, allowing manufacturers to protect their products with a single application across the eu and to act against counterfeit products, including online.
the next item is the one-minute debate on the political priorities (rule 172). i would like to inform you that during the one minute presentation, you are invited to speak from your seats. before i go on to this point and give the floor to the first rapporteur, i forgot to mention that the vote on the previous question will take place tomorrow, as will the vote on several reports already under discussion.
mr president, this summer my country, greece, was put to the test. deadly fires and unprecedented floods occurring every three hundred years have shocked my homeland. the extreme events have killed people, buried entire villages, wiped out forested areas, and destroyed homes, businesses, and crops. the greek prime minister, mr mitsotakis, will inform the presidents of the commission and parliament in detail tomorrow of the extent and scale of the disasters and the need for european support. my fellow citizens, we are at the mercy of climate change, with unpredictable developments. in europe we have the appropriate financial instruments, but they must be reviewed and adapted to the emergency situation. the member states concerned must be given immediate benefits and my country, greece, must receive the financial support it deserves.
mr president, commissioner, there are 32 weeks left and you finish your term, we finish the european parliament. one of the mottos of the european union is that all citizens are equal. i'm sad to go home, to tell you the truth, because since 2014 i've been advocating for romanians to have equal rights with citizens, and i'm going to give you three examples of how citizens in my country are discriminated against. one example is the schengen area. parliament has voted five or six times. nothing is going on. the commission is the guardian of the treaties. there are legal grounds to act on austria. it's all right. what should we say to the romanians in the election campaign to get them to vote for the european parliament elections? the second discrimination is that of visas to the united states. commissioner, the treaty provides for reciprocity. if the united states doesn't let romanian citizens in, you can apply that point. and i have another discrimination that i also can't answer. it is about subsidies for farmers in romania, compared to what they... (the president withdrew the speaker)
mr. chairman, many of our colleagues have spoken about the natural disasters that unfortunately are on our soil. we've had quite a few of them, not to mention all the countries, but just in case i'd like to highlight a few of the last ones - the floods in greece and in my country, bulgaria. it seems to me that we need to look much more seriously at some of the structural changes that the european union needs to make. firstly, a change in the rules governing the organisation of the solidarity fund's resources, which are completely inadequate. secondly, as regards the criteria in the fund itself, 0,6% of the gross domestic product must cover one country, i.e. there must be such damage which is more than 0,6% of the gross domestic product. but if the damage is extensive, they're few in number? so this raises the big question, how do you calculate the gross domestic product indicator exactly? we are entering a sensitive period for european democracy, but it is also an opportunity to change the budgetary rules. i think that in the middle of the budget procedure there should be much more money and much simpler rules.
mr president, in this highly civilized world, one in ten people suffer from chronic hunger. in our rich europe, 90 million people are at risk of poverty. today, with inflation, food banks, like in france, are out of breath and one in three french people no longer has enough to eat. call it what you will, i say it constitutes crimes, crimes that we are committing. and let's be honest, the daily peace of mind requires that we banish this unbearable reality from our consciousness, when this is what we should be thinking about all the time so that all our strength, all our intelligence, all our resources are turned to this war that must be fought for the eradication of hunger and poverty.
mr president ukraine has been at war for a year and a half. national minorities, including transcarpathian hungarians, are also fighting to defend the country. they take in refugees, do their jobs, hoping for peace as soon as possible. despite this, minority rights have been steadily declining since 2017. the eu, the venice commission and several eu member states have also asked ukraine to guarantee minority rights under international commitments, and to restore previous educational and mother tongue rights. this has not been achieved in the minorities act 2022, but the draft amendment adopted at first reading does not address the main problems either. a country aspiring to the union cannot deprive its european minorities of the right to run schools in their mother tongue and live as a national community. it is therefore outrageous that a transcarpathian hungarian school has unjustifiably replaced its minority headmaster. the use of hungarian national symbols and the playing of the national anthem were banned at the opening of the school year. this is not european and not democratic. i hope you'll do the same.
mr president, the war in ukraine has led to an increasing militarization of the european union. this is not the european defence of the future. quite the opposite. subordinating the european project to euro-atlantic imperatives, turning the union into an arms supplier, financier and political patron of ukraine. this role also carries great risks for the european project, because the decisions on the conduct of the war are taken outside the european union, but the risks and consequences of it directly affect the economy, the environment and even the future of the union itself. the supply of depleted uranium munitions, the rising tensions in the black sea and the huge number of human casualties do not bring us any closer to peace, much less to victory. in a few months' time, the european parliament elections will take place. the economic damage of the war will determine their outcome. the only way for europe to secure its geopolitical future is to formulate its own plan to end the war. peace without europe will be peace at the expense of europe.
madam president, dear colleagues, the scale of the humanitarian tragedy in gaza is unprecedented, and the european union seems helpless and unable to change the situation on the ground. calling for humanitarian corridors, sending humanitarian aid: this is not enough if this help can’t reach the citizens of gaza. i was in israel 10 days ago near the border with gaza, and nothing can justify the cruelty, the barbaric actions of hamas toward the people living there. nothing can justify the kidnapping of women and children. the war against the terrorists of hamas, however, should be according to international law. today i call for immediate release of all the hostages in gaza: the immediate release of the israeli and european hostages that are in the hands of hamas and all the palestinians in gaza that are hostages of the terrorist organisation. we need to bring them back and to save lives of all the innocent people. does europe have the power to do this? yes, but we need to do it now.
mr. president, what is this? i remember a discussion last year when we were very concerned about whether we could secure our energy supply, when the cost of electricity and gas was rising sharply, and we were afraid of growing social protests. we must admit and appreciate that we have avoided a great crisis and that is certainly a success, so congratulations to you, commissioner. the commissioner spoke about what has made this possible: through the action to fill gas storage facilities what we have been working on through diversification of energy import infrastructure, through investment in renewable energy, energy efficiency, through efforts to reduce energy demand. the commissioner also mentioned that we have a significant increase in the use of renewable energy, which is mainly due to photovoltaics also in my country there have been record achievements and wind farms. the eu has reduced its dependence on russian fossil fuels. we have withdrawn from coal imports, there has been a 90% reduction in oil imports and a 90% reduction in gas imports. but there were still some problems. i mean, we're still importing gas from russia. some countries, like austria, have even increased their imports with gas pipelines. it is therefore difficult to understand that there is no appropriate response from the commission in this case and there is no appropriate response from the european parliament which does not want to discuss this at all. and we've also increased our lng purchases from russia by 40 percent, so we're still funding russia and her war. secondly, during the energy crisis, the fossil fuel subsidies increased significantly. member states have implemented crisis support mechanisms of eur 195 billion. this is not in line with the union's climate policy but it is in line with current realities. the problem is that we're moving away from the market rules when it comes to energy. thirdly, as the colleagues have already mentioned, energy prices remain high for both individual consumers and industry. gas and electricity prices are higher in europe than in other regions of the world. so there is a concern about the competitiveness of european industry and we are hearing more and more about european companies moving overseas. and that is of course a huge threat.
mr. president, what is this? this is a good time to summarize the work of the energy union, because we started it nine years ago and for five years now we have a regulation on the management of the energy union. and we all agree, rather, that this helped us overcome the crisis a year ago and also gave us many additional advantages and achievements that we would not have had without the energy union. i know this is a difficult situation, and it's still uncertain, but you have to imagine what would have happened without this union. but the union is not a state. it's a process all the time. we have, as always, two main tasks ahead of us: energy security and climate action. as far as energy security is concerned, as you know, we passed a gas storage regulation last year. in ten weeks, the whole regulation. we have these opportunities, and we need to use them when we need them. the second thing is a gas-buying platform. we're very late here because jacques delors and i proposed a solution like this in 2010. i wish we were getting into this so late. but hydrogen and other materials critical to the european union must also be included. we will have four advantages: security, lower prices for europeans and europeans, the ability to fight warming, and finally, we will keep small and medium-sized enterprises and european industry competitive. that is why we need to make bold decisions, as we did a few years ago.
mr. speaker, what is this? the energy union is amazing. but let's be honest. the energy union has failed. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the union's energy policy is based on the principle of subsidiarity. the former gas policy has done the opposite. we have increased the use of gas in the eu, we have increased the import of gas into the eu and we have increased the import of russian gas into the eu. and it is the old gas policy that has not worked, and it is the one that has led to the extreme energy prices that we have had over the last two years. now we have to learn from this lesson. full stop on imports of russian gas and a complete stop on imports of russian lng, in particular, which continues to flow into europe. my europe is fighting for peace and for the climate. for the climate, we must dump the gas. for peace, we must dump putin. so let's call ourselves once and for all the "dumb putin union".
mr president, i think the energy union is a very good project and i would like to break down these five pillars. in the eighth report we are talking about security and solidarity, which is actually the first pillar of this energy union. and we also talk about the fact that we still haven't achieved enough security and we still have to work on it because we're threatened by various crises. and so we need to support energy supplies more. full integration of our networks, i think it's going the right way. energy efficiency, which is the third pillar, i think, has two parts, and that's definitely what the cost-effectiveness of the energy we produce is. so what is the final price for our consumers, and whether they can afford it? and i would like to say here that we really should do more to make the energy we produce cheap, and make it available to all citizens, and really be an opportunity for them. the second part of this energy efficiency, i think, is the impact that renewables are continually promoted have on nature. what is the price of solar panels, for example, and whether wind energy really is not a problem for our farmers. the next, fourth pillar, is decarbonisation. and here i would like to stress that i would be more supportive of nuclear energy and i am very pleased that slovakia has become part of the nuclear forum. and the latest research, which we should be looking at is new possibilities, like small modular reactors.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen many advances in the energy sector. we have reduced total natural gas consumption, the european union has freed itself from russia's dependence on gas pipelines and oil, we have set records in installed solar pv capacity. we have been able to review a very significant set of directives and regulations in the energy sector, notably the renewable energy directive and the energy efficiency directive. we are currently in the final stages of negotiating the electricity market design and the remit, which aims to combat energy market manipulation. but we can't assume we did everything right. at the level of suppliers, in particular with regard to liquefied natural gas, the rules continued to be circumvented. we cannot accept these practices. and that is why, and that is why, i included liquefied natural gas in the report of the remit monitoring against energy market manipulation.
mr. chairman, we were lucky that last winter and this fall were warmer than usual. we consumed less electricity and dealt with the high prices. in the short term, we've found replacement supplies of some energy resources. the question we need to answer now is what are we doing in the long run? the lack of connectivity between the electricity and gas transmission networks between the countries is a key problem. we don't have a really working energy union right now, and that leads to additional dividing lines in europe. the countries of southeast and eastern europe are subject to higher prices. citizens of those countries with lower incomes are more likely to suffer from this increase. before we think about how to cut off a branch we're sitting on because of the geopolitical situation, we need to think about how to protect the most vulnerable citizens of europe. beyond ideology, there is science and pragmatism. we need all the technology available to cut our energy costs. it's the only way we can be truly competitive in the global marketplace. affordable prices should be the main pillar around which we build our energy policies.
mr president, in 2008, when nicolas sarkozy wanted the union for the mediterranean, he said that it was in the perspective of this mediterranean union that we should design the immigration we chose, that is, decide together, organize together, master together. his vision was so right, but unfortunately the goal is not achieved. yes, at strictly controlled borders, yes, to improving living conditions in the countries of immigration, but without sincere and demanding dialogue between the two sides of the mediterranean on the issue of migration, solutions will not be sustainable. the union for the mediterranean is the space where this dialogue is possible, the union for the mediterranean is the space where it can be built. it is built on an identity around a political dimension. so let's do some politics. let us settle political issues, and immigration must never be a taboo.
mr president, the mass migration of gdr citizens to west germany in 1989 hastened the collapse of the soviet bloc. today the european union is experiencing a migration crisis that is undermining its foundations. unfortunately, the problem is misrepresented and increases the risks. the commission is calling for a solidarity solution to the refugee problem, while at the same time it is leading to an escalation of the refugee problem. he's organizing deliveries of ammunition to ukraine and cautiously commenting on the escalation in gaza. it is precisely the wars in ukraine and the middle east that are increasing migration pressure critically, not to mention the steady flow of migrants through the mediterranean. seven schengen countries have already re-established various forms of control over the internal borders of the zone. new migratory pressure from outside will only accelerate internal fragmentation. realism calls on the commission and the council to revise their assessments and to launch peace initiatives on ukraine and gaza as a matter of urgency.
mr. speaker, what is this? the eu's utopian climate targets are now affecting truck and bus companies with unreasonable climate rules. as the transport sector becomes more expensive, so will everything else - food, building materials, white goods and so on. european transport is already a world leader in environmental and climate action. we have invested in a better future and thus success for decades. once again, we are given socialist points of view instead of promoting technological neutrality, innovation, research and free markets. this new strap around the neck will make the economy stagnate even more. competition is undermined as companies leave the eu and people find it increasingly difficult to pay their bills. outside the radical climate bubble, the reality is clear. citizens want a reduction in living costs and a climate policy that is not alarmist or judges ordinary people, but that has faith in the future and trust in europe. there nuclear power is an excellent solution for the whole of the eu.
mr president, it is a little over two weeks since we voted on the new euro 7 emission standard, which was finally passed by parliament in moderate form. and now we are voting on another emission standard, this time for new heavy vehicles, and the report from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is even more destructive this time than the commission's original proposal. not only are we eliminating industry by tightening emissions standards, but in our green blindness some colleagues may not have noticed that we can harm the environment by approving this report. the demand for heavy city buses to be fully emission-free by 2030 can seriously impair the availability and quality of public transport, as cities in europe simply do not even have a charging infrastructure. if we really care about the environment, we need to make public transport more attractive, not cripple it. people need to get to work or school and then back home. i hope common sense wins and this liquidation policy is rejected.
the commissioner, mr president, has said that it is very important that we reduce emissions in the transport sector. we know that it is the only sector where emissions have only increased and trucks, heavy traffic, produce 25% of eu road transport emissions. it is therefore justified to pay attention to this. however, it is important that when setting these objectives we take into account the different circumstances in europe. i represent the finns here. as you know, finland is very remote, sparsely populated and has a cold climate. so it is not realistic at all, and not even cost-effective, to think that we would move quickly to electricity in these circumstances. the situation is quite different in urban, distribution and bus transport, where electrification can be very fast ahead. the conditions in finland are such that we use extremely heavy, large trucks, which is a cost-effective way to reduce emissions, since we can produce less co2 per tonne in a large truck than if we had two or three trucks carrying the same load. it is therefore important to take account of the different regional circumstances when setting these objectives. we now aim to have 90% of new heavy-duty vehicles completely zero emissions by 2040. it is important that these largest combinations are now being limited, but we also need to increase technology neutrality, take into account biogas, renewable fuels and promote a lifecycle-based computational model. i personally suggest that we add to this the carbon correction factor, the carbon correction factor, which can bring this technology into a neutral dimension.
mr president, mr commissioner, first of all i would like to thank all those fellow rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs, especially in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, for making this report a significant step forward in our efforts to decarbonise transport and setting clear and very definitive objectives. truck standards play a key role not only as a legal framework but also as a catalyst for the sector's transition to clean energy. this is vital not only for the protection of the environment but also for ensuring the long-term viability of the transport sector. secondly, we must emphasize the role of transport as the backbone of the european economy. it is the main channel of trade and exchange and supports the vital arteries of the european economy. third, our solutions cannot be an experiment. they must be based on clear and proven approaches. and we need to emphasize the need for urgent and flexible measures. measures to decarbonise heavy goods transport must be sufficiently adaptable to meet our needs and challenges. this is not a sprint. it's a marathon after all.
mr president, mr commissioner, colleagues, i cannot support this bill as it is proposed, simply because its objectives are good but far from realistic. and the road to hell is paved with good intentions, but unrealistic. electric trucks, when we talk about heavy-duty transport, i'd like to focus on that as a technology that's not in an industrial stage of entering our market. they are also not marketable and have no proven usefulness. and most importantly, we have no financial, price justification for transporting these types of electric trucks, and we just can't afford it, and i'm not talking about today, tomorrow or before the election, and for the next term of office of the european institutions, we can't afford any more pro-inflation measures to fight climate change because climate change is a proven fact before us, but inflation is not the solution to this problem.
- your honor, madam president, i would like to thank you. hungary is facing the prevailing brussels policy on three important issues. we do not want to continue the war, but we want a ceasefire and an immediate peace agreement. we reject illegal immigration and we stand up against it. and we're protecting our children from the increasingly aggressive and absurd lgbtq propaganda. these positions are correct and enjoy the support of the vast majority of hungarians, and we will stand by them even if they organize a debate and hysteria here every week. it is quite obvious that the brussels left is not interested in facts and law. hungary can do anything, whatever the conditions are, you in this house will only attack us with more anger. the goal was never to bring about an agreement. this is a very political blackmail. while the european union is in trouble, you are fomenting division and strife. when will they realize that they are breaking up the european union? let's be clear: the current corrupt, dispersed elite of brussels cannot stay in place. in brussels, it's time for a change.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you also to the council for their presence in such a debate, and i want also to thank all the participants for such a discussion about the rule of law, again, in one specific member state, hungary. it is true that we have had many discussions about the situation in hungary, but we continue to have such a discussion in parliament. and since the beginning of our discussions, it was possible to not pay any euro to hungary now, in the different procedures that we are following, due to the fact that we continue to see if it is possible to have some reforms. i would like to mention again our overall goal. i hope we all want the pertinent concrete issues which currently prevent us from releasing certain eu funds to hungary to be solved. these funds will not flow in the absence of the necessary changes, but if hungary carries out the required changes – and, let me reiterate, that it is for hungary to notify that they have done so – we will assess them in all objectivity and take the required actions in line with the respective regulations, one by one: conditionality, rrf, horizontal enabling conditions. our aim is to ensure the sound protection of the financial interests of the union from breaches of the principles of the rule of law and protect the eu budget. to take again the example of the justice reforms. we are not in a process of negotiation. i have listened many times to the word negotiation. we are in a verification process. it is very clear about the justice reforms that we have for of 27 milestones that i have described dedicated to the justice reform. but those reforms were agreed in the recovery and resilience plan of hungary, decided and approved by the council, with the participation of hungary. and what we are doing now is to see, to verify, if there is a correct implementation of the reforms that we have put in the milestones. this is the reason why i have mentioned the new law, to enter into force in june this year, but we continue also to verify that will be possible for all the judges to go to the court of justice with a preliminary reference if there is a real need to do that, for all the judges in hungary. and we are also because i have listened to that working on the case allocation system. so it is very clear that what we are doing now is to organise a verification. and in this spirit, we continue our work to find solutions. but again, it is very important to verify one by one that all the reforms explained in the different mechanisms, different procedures, are putting into place. and if it is the case, of course, we are moving forward; if it is not, we continue our verification process and our assessment. but thanks again for this discussion, and it was the occasion to explain what we are doing in the different procedures one by one.
president-in-office of the council. madam president, commissioners and honourable members, thank you very much for this debate and for your comments and observations. as i have said before, respect for the rule of law is not only crucial for the functioning of our union, but also a fundamental precondition for the implementation of the union budget and for compliance with the principle of sound financial management. in the current geopolitical context, the defence of our common values and the rule of law, as well as the sound management of union funds, are paramount to the council and more important than ever. once again, thank you very much for your attention.
the rapporteur. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased today, even at this late hour, that parliament, through this consensual report and in the same terms as the council, the commission and the european external action service, expresses a clear, coherent and ambitious position on the security and defence component of european space policy. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to the production of this text. it is obvious to remember how essential space is in our societies. from the most trivial aspects of our daily lives (communication, mobility) to the biggest global challenges (environmental and climate transition), we are increasingly using, sometimes even unknowingly, space-related infrastructure, technologies and services. the security of these systems is therefore a major challenge. safety against accidental hazards, particularly those of collisions between space objects and debris, as orbits are so saturated. security is also a new issue, and it is a bit more recent, in the face of threats, hostile and deliberate acts of malicious actors that are often difficult to identify, test or even degrade our space capabilities. the logic of decomplicated force ratios, the uninhibited use of force, is now also being exported to space. this is therefore a strategic area of which we are speaking, and the recognition of this reality must lead to voluntary european policies, as has already been the case in civil matters for some years and even for some decades, which has been a little less the case in the field of security and defence. it is always worth remembering that europe is not starting from scratch in this area. the european union, collectively through well-established programmes and agencies, and individually through the capacities of certain member states, is already a major spatial player. the commission has therefore decided to take the necessary measures to improve the quality of the services provided. the institutional, industrial and budgetary foundations are strong, but they need to be considerably strengthened, as this report describes. in the face of the dizzying scale of the upheavals that are taking place, some of our achievements are also seriously weakened, sometimes by the pace of our competitors, sometimes also by our own vulnerabilities. unfortunately, we see this in a fundamental segment, that of access to space. without autonomous access to space, no space policy worthy of this name can exist. and most importantly, in these vulnerabilities, addiction is re-inhibitory. it is urgent and vital that the european space industry address this challenge. in this respect, while competition is stimulating, particularly with the promising emergence of innovative enterprises in the so-called new space, it must not lead to the weakening of more traditional industrial pillars. beyond the proper link between synergy and competition, between historic actors and start-ups, it is important not to lose sight of the objective to be achieved: to have autonomous european capacities. the same concern for efficiency must prevail in the organisation of governance. while the existing european agencies and programmes have undeniable strengths, it is important to be fully aware that most of the useful capabilities available to us for monitoring the space domain and for detecting and allocating risks and threats belong to a very small number of states. there is also a vulnerability in the fact that we often depend on our missions, including for the most well-off states, companies or extra-european states. we also see in the event of a conflict, particularly in ukraine, how vital the robustness of the systems deployed in space is. strengthen the resilience of national and community systems, provide reliable secure means for sharing data, establish regular risk and threat assessments, establish a common conceptual and operational framework for the allocation and, where appropriate, response to hostile acts. these are some of the priority tasks for which european and national levels must agree. being an actor who counts in space is not an honorary title. it is a vital obligation for europeans today and even more so tomorrow. no prosperity, no security will be possible without robust, resilient and deterrent space capabilities.
member of the commission. i am here to try to replace the high representative and vice-president of the commission, josep borel, and my colleague, commissioner thierry breton, who unfortunately cannot take part in this debate tonight. today's debate is a timely opportunity to discuss the paradigm shift brought about by our new strategy when it comes to space security and defence. space has become increasingly contested. the geopolitical competition we see on earth is now increasingly projected in space, and we cannot afford to remain idle. space is a strategic domain. the russian aggression against ukraine was a wake-up call for all of us: not just for ukraine, not just for european and indeed international security, but also specifically in terms of space and the threats we face. there is an urgent need for a common european action. we observe very concretely how space assets and services are crucial in support of policy makers as well as military actors. of the around 5 500 satellites in orbit today, 450 are owned or operated by the world's military. many more are dual, or are civilian, commercial and support security and defence. space services are essential for understanding an evolving crisis or conflict on the ground. satellite imagery and communications, for example, can be game-changers for the ukrainian armed forces and for the entire population, providing access to information and situational awareness to help resist the attack, and by keeping ukrainians connected to their country and the outside world. demand for analysis by the eu satellite, satcen, our key geospatial intelligence provider, is growing. last year, satcen provided us with over 4 500 geospatial intelligence products, a tenfold increase over the last decade. in this context, we will reinforce satcen and consider a new earth observation government service. we also witnessed how the ability to deny the use of space to an adversary, whether temporarily or permanently, can be part of warfare. the night before the invasion started, a simple unsophisticated malicious code managed to bring down entire parts of the large space communications network. it also revealed our own vulnerabilities linked to space services and raised some key strategic questions. how many critical infrastructures in the european union depend on space services? how well are these services protected against the many forms of attacks against satellites or ground stations they connect to? just like in other sectors, we have also become more aware of dependencies on foreign suppliers, such as when the russian soyuz teams suddenly left the space port and jeopardized european launch capabilities and capacities. finally, prior to the invasion in november 2021, the russian federation tested a kinetic anti-satellite weapon. this irresponsible act not only generated dangerous debris, but also sent a worrying signal to all spacefaring nations: the russian federation is prepared to hold satellites at risk. this is why the eu will reinforce its space threat response architecture to better understand and better detect the various space threats, and to use the various tools at our disposal in a more efficient way. to this end, the commission will propose a new eu space law to provide a stable and predictable legal framework for the safety, resilience and sustainability of space activities. our strategy is not only setting a high level of ambition for the european union, it is also a diplomatic tool, a transparency and confidence-building measure. the eu promotes responsible behaviour in space at a multilateral level. in addition, we will continue to engage with all member states as well as third countries, because space is essentially a global matter. allow me to thank you again for the opportunity to discuss your report, which captures the essence of the new strategy. the mr president, i am not going to be too far behind in this debate.
on behalf of the s&d group, we must cooperate. we must cooperate to preserve space for the benefit of present and future generations. space must not become the scene of an arms race. its militarization would put all nations at risk. the first step is to update the many international space treaties to adapt them to the new challenges. today's report highlights the importance of preserving space as a place for international cooperation for peaceful purposes. if we work together, we can make great progress and guarantee europe's strategic autonomy in a peaceful space.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the humanitarian situation in gaza is unbearable and almost 900 000 displaced persons are seeking refuge in un facilities. at least 17 of these facilities were directly affected, which is appalling. instead of discussing how to impose additional conditions on aid, the union should press for more humanitarian corridors and ensure that aid actually reaches the people of gaza. and today, this conflict is beyond the borders of israel and gaza, with the recent hijacking of a cargo ship by the houthis in yemen. we now know that there are european citizens on board this ship, bulgarian and romanian crew. what measures, mr borrell and mr lenarčič, do you intend to take to facilitate mediation and release the hostages on board? what measures?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. if hostages are released, if ceasefires are observed, then the important and correct steps are but it's not enough. the people in the death zones of israel, the people in the death zones of gaza need more. and yes, mr borrell is right: we must look to peace. but what does that mean? this means that we must also have the strength and courage to pave the way for the european union. the people of israel must live in peace and security. where are the representatives of the arab neighbouring countries who are raising their voices and guaranteeing this? yes where are the friends of israel who make it clear and clear that no more innocent people should die and that the settlers' violence must be stopped? i would like to ask the commissioner, the honourable member, to give us a chance to answer that question. let's be part of the solution that stops the death spiral once and for all!
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. yes, the weapons must remain silent, the weapons of all terrorist groups organized and financed by iran: hezbollah, hamas, the islamic revolutionary guards and all islamic terrorist groups around the world including in europe, in the eu, in our capitals. if these weapons keep quiet, then there will be no more islamist terrorism. and yes, the hostages must be released, and apparently, in these hours, there is an opportunity to do so. but it is not here in the european parliament, in comfortable seats, that we can decide when the right time is for a break for the release of hostages, but only the professionals of the israeli army can decide. the israeli government as our partner government decides this politically, and apparently it does. but some will never return: these are the more than 1,000 children, women and men murdered by this islamic attack. i'm the one who always distinguishes between islam and islamism. i therefore call on muslims to distance themselves from the anti-semitism that is now taking place all over europe, which is being fought with all the hardships of the law, as well as the legal procedures that will hold the terrorists responsible for 7 october accountable.
mr. chairman, mr. borel, let us congratulate israel on its efforts to free the hostages. but let it be clear that as long as hamas exists, the humanitarian catastrophe will continue and there will be no peace. the only solution is to destroy hamas, hezbollah and all other terrorist organizations in the region. as for the peaceful population in gaza, it's obviously not so peaceful after its men become terrorists. this population is clearly supporting hamas. new sanctions against countries that support terrorism in the region are needed. first of all, iran, but let's not forget russia. peace and a palestinian state must be there when there is no palestinian terrorism. free palestine means free from hamas.
in writing. i will be strong and cruel, as strong and cruel are the images that come to us every day from the gaza strip and those related to the hamas attack on 7 october. we should all imprint these images on our eyes and hearts. we should all pause for a moment, look at these images, feel each other's suffering, and say enough, once and for all. what is happening represents a stain on human history. this stain belongs to all of us and will become a burden on the conscience of all our peoples. therefore, a global response is needed. it is undeniable that the international community, without factions or exceptions, is committed to an immediate ceasefire. at the same time, it is essential to clear the field of ambiguities: we call on all those arab and non-arab states that have not yet distanced themselves from hamas to cut off their ties with this barbaric terrorist organization. only then can we really support the search for a definitive solution to this wound that has been open for many, many years. dear colleagues, history will judge us by our actions. let us work together to put an end to this conflict once and for all.
in writing. – diplomatic discourse about humanitarian issues and the search for a ceasefire, not just a truce, must continue. given the levels of barbarity (attributable to both sides) which the israel-hamas war has reached, that discourse and that search should be accompanied by a re-evaluation of the position that european nations adopt towards israel and the palestinians (in the absence of a palestinian state). on the one hand, we are told, there is a new confrontation being set up by a russia-china-iran axis, against the ‘western’ coalition that the us and europe represent, plus israel and hopefully some arab states, chief of which saudi arabia. on the other hand, the palestinian issue is presented as an anticolonial struggle against an invading tribe simply intent on practising ethnic cleansing. europe should not accept both sides of this fundamentally misleading dichotomy. it should follow the line taken by un secretary-general guterres. his is the best available assessment of the ongoing atrocious situation, no matter who rebuts it. a european policy in favour of a two-state solution to the middle east ‘problem’ should be situated strictly in the political context set by guterres, if europe is to contribute validly to the establishment of some kind of just peace to palestine.
in writing. on 7 october 2023 israel was the victim of a brutal terrorist attack. in total, about 1,200 israelis and foreigners were killed in this attack, the vast majority of them on the first day of hamas' attacks. israel has the right to defend itself. but no one has the right to be above international law and humanitarian law. after that, more than 14,000 people were killed in gaza. women, children and the defenseless elderly were victims of a conflict that failed to protect them. the humanitarian catastrophe in gaza has reached intolerable levels. humanitarian law cannot be violated any longer. humanitarian solutions must be immediate. those that have been unlocked are clearly insufficient. to stop the humanitarian tragedy and the proliferation of conflict, we need to go further. the hostage release process must continue and lead to an immediate ceasefire. we need a political solution based on the two-state principle, which, as joseph borrell said, has been proclaimed for 30 years but never implemented, which includes the control of gaza by a recognized palestinian authority and a process of reconstruction that is a factor in middle east peace.
dear colleagues, we have the prime minister of bulgaria, nikolay denkov, with us today. prime minister, welcome to the european parliament. thank you for being here. a special welcome also to mariya gabriel, the deputy prime minister, whom we know so well in this house. prime minister, this is the first time you are here since we have seen the conclusion of the critical governmental rotation agreement in bulgaria that finally managed to break through the political deadlock and gave bulgaria an important perspective, stability and european outlook, and for that we are grateful. sixteen years of european union membership have been transformative for bulgaria and for europe. it has given new impetus for businesses, for industry, for science, for technology. it has brought opportunities for people and for young people, in particular. it has more brought more social and judicial benefits and reforms, because eu membership promotes equality, social justice, democracy and the rule of law. and in times of geopolitical change, these european values must be defended. dear prime minister, i would like to particularly thank bulgaria for its support for ukraine, for providing military aid, for providing political support. europe is stronger thanks to bulgaria and your government, and will be stronger still when you join the eurozone and finally take your rightful place in the schengen area. next june, 6.8 million bulgarians will be called upon to choose the 17 elected members of the european parliament who will represent them here. we must work together to make sure people understand why they must vote – why it is important. their voice matters for the european union and bulgaria’s future, and we must keep listening and keep delivering. prime minister, the floor is yours.
prime minister of bulgaria mr. president of the european parliament, mr. chairman of parliamentary groups in the european parliament, mr. members of the european parliament, mr. secretary of state, mr. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am honoured to stand before you, representatives of a united europe, in this beautiful and symbolic city. on this day 105 years ago, days after the armistice that ended world war i, french troops entered strasbourg. and the next day, 79 years ago, general philippe lockler and the 2nd armoured division of the french free army, aided by the allies, liberated strasbourg from nazi occupation. strasbourg is a city with a rich and tumultuous history. it was part of the roman empire, then it was within the boundaries of the frankish empire and the holy roman empire, briefly an independent free city, and for the last two centuries it has been continuously passing through france, through germany. the etymology of strasbourg is that it's a city of roads. in the past, more soldiers and tanks than merchants and goods have traveled along these roads, more gunfire and deaths have been fired on them than the songs of traveling musicians. in the past, being at the crossroads was often a curse, not an advantage. in the past, these roads divided people, today they connect them. in the past, the skies above strasbourg were torn by the terrible noise of shells, fighters and bombers, and today they are flown by passenger planes, colorful balloons, and colorful baby jars. in the past, strasbourg was often the apple of discord, today strasbourg is the white dove of peace, and the symbol is here. in the past, julius caesar, charles the great, charles v, napoleon bonaparte, adolf hitler, and joseph stalin tried to unite europe through conquering wars and subjugate other nations by force of arms. and the more brutal and unscrupulous these wars were, the less lasting their successes were. today, for the first time in its centuries-old history, europe is united peacefully in an equal union of independent states, where fundamental values are solidarity, freedom, democracy, equality before the law, the rule of law, respect for human dignity and the fundamental rights of all citizens. and in strasbourg you are sitting, the parliament of the united europe, the guarantor and protector of these values. my country is one of the oldest countries in europe, having kept the name of bulgaria from its foundation in 681 to the present day. in its thousand-year history it was forcibly annexed for 167 years to byzantium and for nearly five centuries to the ottoman empire. but our country has been able to revive thanks to the bulgarian renaissance leaders paisyi hilendarsky, georgi rakovsky, ljuben karavelov, hristo bottev and many others. one of them, vasil levski, who the bulgarian people call the apostle of freedom, is the spiritual inspiration for an independent and european bulgaria. in 1872 he declared that bulgaria should be a democratic republic, in which all peoples, bulgarians, turks, jews, etc., would be equal in all respects and all would live by a common law, which would be elected by majority vote of all peoples. to be equal to the other european nations depends on our own internal forces. it's so relevant today, there's nothing more to add. in its most recent history bulgaria has been the subject of continuous attempts at domination, some of them successful, by the russian empire and the soviet union. unfortunately, these great russian appetites continue to this day and our country is the target of targeted hybrid attacks. putin's secret services and propaganda are taking advantage of our country's economic and raw ties to russia, as well as the historical and cultural ties between our peoples, to divide and oppose our societies of russophiles and euro-atlantics. therefore, bulgaria's full membership of the eu and nato is the greatest guarantee for the continuation of the democratic and european path of development of our homeland. we must therefore complete our european integration by joining the schengen area and the eurozone. i take this opportunity to thank warmly all the meps who have supported bulgaria in the schengen area and thus helped us overcome a european injustice. despite the challenges of our country's historical journey, bulgaria has always been an integral part not only of europe's military achievements (let me remind you of the cessation of the arab caliphate's invasion of constantinople by han tervel in 718), but also of european culture and education probably the brightest example is the cyrillic script created by st. clement of ohrid at the end of the 9th century on the basis of the verbs of st. cyril and methodius. our aim is for modern bulgaria to also make a worthy and substantial contribution to the development of the eu. it is understandable that in most of the latter countries, especially in the poorer ones, the eu's attitude is to be seen as a source of generous funds, aid and a place for better paid work. we're convinced that this stereotype of thinking needs to be broken, so let me paraphrase the famous thought of president john f. kennedy: do not ask what the european union can do for your country, ask what your country can do for the european union. the european union is not an isolated island of peace and prosperity. for nearly two years now, a devastating war has raged on its border, in which russian aggressors have tried to break the drive of the ukrainian people to live in an independent, free and democratic country. no less bloody is the renewed armed conflict in the middle east, sparked by hamas' brutal terrorist attack on civilians, women and children, and israel's large-scale military response, which has already killed thousands of palestinians, including many women and children. the prospects for the conflict to widen and become regional are not to be underestimated, especially given the unstable situation in lebanon, syria, iraq and yemen, as well as the ayatollahs' regimes in iran and the taliban in afghanistan. the situation in the far east is also worrying, where north korea continues to challenge the global community with its nuclear weapons program and its regular launch of missiles capable of carrying nuclear warheads. there is also a great risk to the continuing rising tensions between china and taiwan. the situation in africa south of europe is also unstable. in recent years, in several countries in central and west africa gabon, niger, chad, guinea, mali and burkina faso, democratically elected governments have been overthrown by the military. it is worrying that some of these coups were carried out with the decisive help of mercenaries from the cwc and led to the rise to power of pro-russian regimes. add to this the ongoing civil wars in libya, sudan and ethiopia, the anarchy in somalia and the multiple terrorist attacks in tunisia, egypt, kenya, nigeria and other countries, and we see an extremely alarming world, engulfed by instability in much of the continent south of the eu. we cannot turn a blind eye to these geopolitical challenges. to deal with them, europe must be strong and to be strong, it must be united. the two main ideological and political currents in the eu, conservatism and liberalism, can and should develop not in sharp confrontation but in mutual understanding and cooperation. the borders of our countries, the history and traditions of our nations, christianity and the family are conservative values that the modern world continues to need. the borders of europe, which have become so visible in recent years because of the migrant crisis and the war in ukraine, are a natural summation of this conservative value. but the world is changing and becoming more global, and liberal ideas are breaking ground not only in economics but also in politics, culture and international cooperation. the rights of women, minorities, diversity, immigrants are now an integral part of liberal democracy. we must remove the extremes and unite around the best conservative and liberal values for the future of europe. we must fight hate as a political tool and polarisation as a political platform for gaining power. it's the only way to restore the trust of the people and move forward. a united and strong europe must play a more active role in international relations as an influential and powerful mediator and guarantor of peace. at the same time, the eu should strengthen its links with its strategic nato allies and strengthen its defence capabilities in cooperation between the parties within the union, including by carefully considering the idea of creating a single european army. mr president, the european parliament has been very active in the fight against racism and xenophobia. bulgaria has always been a strong supporter and advocate for the western balkans' accession to the eu. at the same time, we believe that the countries of this region critical to stability and peace in europe should be accepted when they meet all the necessary requirements. accession should be based on real achievements that reflect the candidates' real desire to develop as an integral part of the european family, not the result of political calculations. we welcome the commission's decision to recommend the opening of accession negotiations with ukraine and moldova. we hope that in the near future georgia will join this group. the eu certainly needs to strengthen its institutions and strengthen its enlargement capacity, but we believe that this important process and the work to join new countries must go hand in hand and at the same time. the decision to make the rule of law reports applicable to newly admitted countries is a good guarantee of control and that the parties themselves feel valued by the measure applied to the member states. all the eu enlargements to date show that the enlargement of the member states does not diminish the strength of the union. on the contrary, he's getting more and more powerful. members of the european parliament, today europe is increasingly seeing some signs of war fatigue in ukraine and voices are rising against aid to the ukrainian people and ukrainian refugees. more and more europeans are asking why we should bear the weight and inconvenience of a distant war between two countries that are not part of the eu. isn't it better to make some concessions to putin and end the war? the latin phrase pax potior bello is quoted and its modern version: "and the worst peace is better than the best war". but it's also good to recall a thought by american philosopher george santayana, quoted by winston churchill in connection with the 1938 munich agreement: "those who don't remember the past are condemned to repeat it". sadly, it is well known that hitler's attempts to be favored ended in continuous concessions. the same is true today. putin's war against ukraine is actually putin's war against europe. by helping ukraine, we are helping europe. by protecting ukraine, we are protecting europe. otherwise, tomorrow moldova could be in ukraine's shoes, the baltic republics next, poland, romania, bulgaria and other european countries. the european parliament has also been able to support the european union's efforts to achieve a more sustainable and sustainable future. because of its great appeal as a place of work and life, the vast majority of asylum seekers are heading to europe. but the eu is unable to accept unlimited numbers of immigrants without jeopardizing the normal functioning of its institutions. moreover, the integration of many of the immigrants already admitted is slow and unsatisfactory, as evidenced by a number of incidents, attacks and assassinations by radicalised elements, many of whom were born, raised and educated in eu countries. we need a new strategy and approach that clearly differentiates war refugees from economic immigrants. the eu must do its utmost to facilitate the reception of refugees and take all necessary measures to stop and discourage economic migrants. in addition, the necessary balance must be struck between solidarity and the real opportunities of both individual countries and the european union as a whole. we hope that all these issues and challenges will be taken into account in the new migration and asylum pact. in this regard, i would like to remind you that bulgaria has fulfilled all the requirements for its admission to the schengen area and any further delay is unacceptable and demoralizing for our country and its citizens. we understand that the very functioning of the schengen agreement is currently facing serious problems and many countries are resuming border checks, but we do not think that this could be an argument for bulgaria and romania's rejection. with our two countries in the schengen area, europe's borders will be better protected and europe will be stronger. mr president, i would like to say that the commissioner has already made a number of proposals. on 5 march 2022, a few days after the russian invasion of ukraine, the official facebook page of the slovak border police published the following message: a barely 11-year-old boy from the preserve walked across the border from ukraine to slovakia. with a nylon bag, a passport tied around the neck and a phone number written on the hand. it came just because his mother was supposed to stay in ukraine. my name is hassan, i'm 11 years old. i have two sisters and three brothers, and i'm introducing myself to the child of the amazed border guards. he continues the four-day journey from his home to the slovak border after his mother sends him to the train station. our family has a certain amount of experience. - continues the quote. we escaped from putin's army when we were living in syria. i was 12 years old. our father was murdered and we had to move to ukraine to my mother's family. so eight years later, russia again, putin's army again, says his older brother zakariya, a student in slovakia whose phone was written on hassan's hand. i want to thank all the slovak border guards and volunteers. i can't leave my mother alone, she's still, so i took my son to the station and i put him on the train. please save our ukrainian children and give them safety", adds the boy's mother, yulia vladimirovna. tears in our eyes... this is the greatest hero of the night before, concludes the publication of the slovak border police. the child traveled 1,200 kilometers, first by train, and then on foot. alone, day and night in the harsh ukrainian winter, hungry, frozen, scared and haunted by the siren warrior and the sound of shells. there may have been tears in the eyes of the border guards, but not in the eyes of the child. as you can see from the photos posted, the little character even tries to smile. this is the tragedy of the people we read about as statistics in various media publications. i have to say that i have not yet been able to speak to the commission. let me finish with two more landmark events that happened on these dates. on this day 133 years ago, the hero of the french resistance to nazi occupation, the first prime minister of postwar france, the first president of the fifth republic, general charles de gaulle, was born. and on november 23, 1959, president de gaulle delivered his famous speech "from the atlantic to the urals" expressing his confidence that one day all of europe from the atlantic to the urals would be united. then, at the height of the cold war, when the iron curtain divided europe from the baltic sea to trieste in the adriatic sea, this claim of de gaulle sounded absurd. even more absurd today, in the midst of the heated war in ukraine, when hundreds of european men, women and children are killed every day. but one day, when today is yesterday, and tomorrow will be today, when the whites and the peasants are just one shameful page in their country's history, and our children will not be forced to flee the war alone, with a passport tied around their necks and a phone number written on their sleeves, then that dream can come true. it is our responsibility to keep a free, democratic and united europe!
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, mr commissioner, colleagues, welcome, the honorable mr. denkov, the honorable mrs. gabriel! i'm so glad you're here today. bulgaria has a pro-european, democratic, predictable government, of which you are prime minister, mainly thanks to the state behaviour of the gerb party and its chairman mr. borissov, thanks to our desire for bulgaria to get out of the trap of hatred and chaos of the last three years. especially today, as you have outlined this extremely worrying situation around the world, it is very important that every country in the european union has a predictable, pro-european and effective government. unfortunately, with the serious role of your party, there has been a major delay in european financing for the bulgarian economy, the suspension of important infrastructure projects, which has led to serious damage and missed benefits for business and citizens. the vague geopolitical behavior in your previous coalition with the pro-russian forces i hope will not be repeated at the sofia city council. gerb came to your aid again in the second round and you didn't lose the capital. for us, a democratic and european bulgaria is above all, even above party interests. we are and will continue to be a guarantor of this as a major political stabilizing factor in bulgaria. i also hope that our joint efforts for a democratic social environment, culture and education will be successful and that the remnants and propaganda artifacts of the totalitarian dictatorship will find their place in museums and textbooks. i hope that the signing of memoranda with russian oligarchy funds will remain in the past, as well as this strange defense of the derogation for importing russian crude oil from the refinery near the kremlin, lukayl, through which bulgaria fills the kremlin's military budget. i would like to conclude by thanking mrs gabriel in particular for her efforts to overcome the obstacles to bulgaria's accession to the schengen area and to prepare for the euro area. i also want to thank mrs. gabriel for her excellent work on the results we have achieved from our membership in the un human rights council. this is a very good signal for bulgaria. mr denkov, mrs gabriel and of course mrs ivanova, the signals of understanding of the pro-european democratic forces in bulgaria over the last few days are very encouraging. today's vote in the bulgarian parliament is also such a signal. we have a lot of work to do and i am convinced that together, mr denkov, we can achieve even more success for the european development of bulgaria a respected and worthy member of the european union, a more efficient, more united european union that works for the physical, social and economic security of its citizens.
on behalf of the s&d group. commissioner, mr prime minister, welcome to the european parliament. you are coming on a day when, although indicative, proposals for future amendments to the treaties of the european union will be voted on, including decisions on enlargement, and i therefore take the opportunity to ask: what is the position of the bulgarian government on the question of qualified majority and unanimity when it comes to enlargement? and since you have already mentioned that you support the commission's proposal to start negotiations with moldova and ukraine, how will this affect the enlargement process in the western balkans and how do you see this process so that the western balkans countries do not lose their incentives on their integration path?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, mr prime minister, we were born actually – mr prime minister, i know that mariya gabriel is more attractive to you than me, because she’s your partner in government! – we were born actually six months apart. and when we were born, we were separated, you and i, by an iron curtain. and it remains to me a deep joy to see that our two countries are now part of the same union. and it’s a union, as you said, of choice of freedom and based on rule of law. and like you, and maybe you didn’t say it explicitly, but i really resent when some european politicians are comparing the european union to the new soviet union or to a renewed third reich, where we would be submitted by force. we all chose freely to be part of that union, and that remains a source of pride. and let no one believe that the european union is a repetition of the past failures in europe. the second thing i want to say is that i totally agree with you when you say that what is happening in ukraine is basically the defence of the values on which the european union has been built. this is our struggle, and i must say that yes, it entails efforts from the members of the european union to help ukraine, but frankly speaking, they are putting their lives on the line. we are just putting part of our wealth to help them, and i think that’s the least we can do. the third thing where i agree with you is that yes, the european union is a union freely chosen, but it has to be merit-based. and there again, when the merits are there, the decision should follow. yes, bulgaria and romania must be part of schengen. and for citizens this is probably, with the common currency, the most emblematic meaning of what it means to be part of the european union. so full support for that. i will finish with the values you mentioned a lot, the conservative and liberal values. and then the green in me said, ‘hang on one second, yes, the conservatives and the liberals have brought a lot to europe, but i think that there’s more to european political diversity and values diversity than just those two families’. i think that the left has brought these values of social justice, and that lies at the heart of the european union. and i would finish with the thing that was most absent from your speech. well, you know, if you and i and our kids and grandkids will live in the 21st century and beyond, well, it will be because we have been able to protect this planet as our common home. and indeed that lies as well at the heart of the values of the european union, making sure that indeed, the planet on which we live will be welcoming us for generations to come.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, mr president, prime minister, colleagues, mr prime minister, you started your introduction with brief historical references, which, however, in my view, were quite, very partial. let me remind you that around these dates, years ago, the nubian dictatorship and illegal occupation of the western bulgarian coastline, the black border, were taking place with the consent of the state of france, to which you are grateful today. with the tacit consent, breach of treaties, division of villages, persecution of people, only president wilson's intervention saves the bulgarian nation from division. this too must be remembered, it must be said especially here in strasbourg, because no one benefits from the partial citation of history. my impression, mr. prime minister, is that you were wrong about president kennedy's epitaph on his gravestone. you said we should see what we do for europe, for the european union. you are a bulgarian prime minister, not a high-ranking european official. you should ask yourself what the bulgarian government is doing for the bulgarian citizens. every morning in front of the mirror you have to ask yourself this, because bulgarian citizens are your bosses and employers, not european bureaucrats. those are the important things. otherwise you said you see white balloons, that you see beautiful yellow-brown snails and yellow-brown balloons, white pigeons. but the bulgarian citizens must see high prices for fuel, transport, etc. that's because bulgaria is not in the schengen, and bulgaria is not in the schengen, mr. denkov, because the economic interests of some european countries are obstructing, they are economic. bulgaria has fulfilled all its obligations, but some people are fulfilling their economic interests and you should tell them that. you are the prime minister. you must tell the european council that you cannot allow bulgarian citizens to suffer for your economic interests. there can't be high prices, there can't be bulgarians standing outside. we can't be second-hand people. - he can't. this is not european, this is not european and this is not right. everything else is hypocrisy. everything else is a double standard. we can't afford this thing. you're not a travel agent. you are the prime minister. you need to step on the table and talk to these people about what's important, so they understand you. you also cited our support for ukraine. it's important, and it should be, of course. but when we support people in need and need, you have to demand the support of these people for macedonia, for the bulgarian cause in macedonia. because you didn't mention a word about repression, about violence, about the denial of self-determination. colleague sejurne, you speak of how you will support us, but there are people in your group who pretend not to see the violence against bulgarians in macedonia. explain it to them. they're in your group. you're applying for renew. there you will be the police chiefs, they in bulgaria will be your chiefs and here they will be your chiefs. it's all right. that's how you picked it and that's how you arranged it. no, it's not a particular problem, but still tell them there's violence against bulgarians in macedonia. this is not european. the right to self-determination, the right to national self-esteem, the right to national dignity these are european values, european values. your diplomats are behind you. tell them when they defend these cases in strasbourg, to be more active, to defend the real bulgarian cause. because that's the important stuff. - oh, my god! the west bank, we were talking about the occupation, the noy dictatorship. there's a poet there, ivan nikolov. this month of august, on arhangelovden, the day of the occupation, kosovo was serbian authorities and civilian police under a poet. they're searching him. call him, see this man, support him. his right to self-determination has been violated by the serbian authorities, the probelgrads, the pro-kremlin. this is happening in macedonia, this is being denied to the bulgarians and it cannot continue in the same way. we've already talked about schengen. you were gonna check the subsidies, but check them, the farm. the difference in subsidies is what makes bulgarian farmers poorer, less competitive. this has to be checked and this has to be put here. this must be discussed and put on the agenda. carriers, you've again spoken a lot about what's happening in the international environment in chad, mali and burkina faso. these are important things, but i think the agenda of the bulgarian prime minister and the focus should be on the interests of bulgarian citizens and how they, bulgarian citizens, have access to the single market, to travel, to european prospects and horizons, and not to be second-hand citizens. so on a personal level i wish you good health, but in politics you will need a lot of hardness, a lot of courage, a lot of character and a lot of political backing to defend bulgarian interests. the bulgarian interest in the formats in which you must represent it and you must uphold it.
madam president, honourable prime minister denkov and ms gabriel, yes, i want to start with also acknowledging what philippe told. i was a little bit surprised when you spoke about conservatism and liberal values, not mentioning social values while president metsola spoke about. but nevertheless, i have to remind that the bulgarian presidency, when it took place in the beginning of 2018, supported our proposed guidelines for employment policies in the member states. i was a reporter at that time and thanks to that, the directive on minimum wage appeared. but our proposal was more ambitious. and what do you think about the proposal of minimum income for the eu? and i have to remind you that bulgaria is the state at the bottom of the list of minimum wage. smaller minimum wages than my country as well. another question is about rights and about rights of minorities. you spoke about vasil levski mentioning bulgarians, jews and turks as equals. but what happens now? what do you think about the rights of minorities, especially the rights to participate in election campaigns in their own language? we know the decision of the european court where bulgaria lost, and the same problem exists in my country, latvia, as well. abolishing education, abolishing rights to speak in pre-election campaigns in minority languages – it is not the europe you mentioned as a europe uniting. ‘united in diversity’ means not only unity of 27 member states, but also of all languages of all cultures within european union.
madam president, dear prime minister, dear commissioner ivanova, i would like to say that bulgaria is a country whose history is intertwined with europe, and it is really in the origin of the dna of europe, from its ancient times to modern times. your country gave us the alphabet of saints cyril and methodius, and you are speaking, in a very clear way, the language of freedom after 1990. so it’s a pleasure – and it’s really something that completes the european project – to have bulgaria in the european union and also in nato. and i also have to congratulate you and mariya gabriel for the return of political stability and responsible behaviour – a clear pro-european government. and i would like to say here that mariya gabriel – a very, very committed pro-european – is a very important actor of your executive. then let me tell you that i understand the difficulties in the external landscape of a country that has its coast in the black sea – so close to the war – but at the same time, it is very important to call on you to step up your efforts to end fossil fuel dependence on russia. could you clarify how you plan to close this loophole on russian oil? we are here as the european union to support you, but we need also your efforts in this field. and let me tell you that we are also a bit worried with the european funds, because the instability of the last two years paralysed the development and the implementation of these european funds. so what is the plan for the next two years where you have a very, very tiny time? and only to say: we are totally with bulgaria and with romania on your schengen accession. and we, as the epp, we already condemn the epp government that is blocking that. i hope that liberals with the netherlands would do the same, especially after these elections.
madam president, dear prime minister, dear deputy prime minister, romania and bulgaria deserve to be accepted to the schengen area, and this needs to happen fully, and it needs to happen now. it is unacceptable for our two countries to be left out, even though we fulfil all the schengen criteria, and we have efficiently protected the european borders for so many years. we live, dear prime minister, in a difficult region, but we have always defended european values and the cohesion of our union. we did that during difficult times in the western balkans. we helped build a safe black sea region, while maintaining a good relationship with turkey, georgia and the countries in the black sea. we are proving it once more today with the support provided to ukraine and the republic of moldova. romania and bulgaria are not second-rank members, and people should stop looking at us this way. that is why i call upon the eu leaders to support our accession to schengen all the way: by having a vote by the end of the year, in order to show that respecting the rules in the eu pays off.
the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 of this regulation. prime minister, colleagues, i have participated in such debates many times and they all came to the same conclusion. debate on the internal policy of bulgaria. let us make sure that this debate is not about bulgaria's internal policy but about the future of europe, in which i want bulgaria to be very active and use this pro-european majority for the necessary reforms, which are both urgent in the national context and in the european one. if there is a consensus on one issue for years between the european commission, meps, the bulgarian national elite, it is the schengen issue. by the end of 2023, if bulgaria and romania do not join the schengen area, we risk a lot like the european union. we risk undermining the foundations of everything we've accomplished in these 70+ years. - why? - i don't know. because bulgarian and romanian citizens cannot continue to be treated in the same way as they have been treated in recent years, because they are no different from german, austrian, dutch and other citizens. because the bulgarian economy is suffering enormous damage. and if we want to have a union that is based on a strong economy that is competitive, a union that relies on the single market, bulgaria and romania must be part of the schengen area. another topic that i think is very important. i wish, mr prime minister, that bulgaria is ambitious with its ideas, with its plans, with its proposals it makes in the european institutions. there is no way we can have an eu that wants a strong foreign policy if we continue to make decisions like this. it's always going to be too little, too slow. 27 countries are coming together, making decisions and how they're doing it, months, with delays, with bargains. there are a number of initiatives, including those of countries that are on our side, so to speak, to change the way decisions are made. to move from unanimity to a qualified majority. i know what these nationalist forces will answer me. ilhan qutchuq wants to advance the interests of the western balkans. that was never a topic. the issue of enlargement, the policy of enlargement, was not part of this debate. so let us be ambitious and responsible for the future of the eu, because it is a union of all of us.
madam president, prime minister, commission, colleagues, i want to thank you, prime minister denkov, for talking to us and with us. you dwelt quite extensively on historic issues and you spoke about the european spirit of bulgaria that your national hero emphasised, and i’m sure all of us loved it. you quoted jfk, and i like that too. so let me ask you this question: what will bulgaria do for the eu with regard to eu enlargement? you didn’t mention the name of your neighbouring country, north macedonia, whose access so far has been blocked by bulgaria. in vague terms only you seemed to question the real will of candidate countries. can anybody question the real european will of north macedonia, a country that even went as far as changing its name in order to open the door to europe? after mr dzhambazki spewed hate against north macedonia here, i would like to ask you, prime minister, to be more specific. what will you do to help open the door for north macedonia? i believe bulgaria must avoid hampering the accession process with overhyped national blockades.
mrs. chairman, academic denkov, mrs. gabriel, mrs. commissioner, i was thinking of talking about culture and education, but as things go, i'm going to start talking about schengen, i'm the vice chairman of the culture and education committee. i just want to tell people who think that bulgaria should not enter the schengen area that all illegal migration channels are funded by the following countries, if they don't know it: austria, the netherlands, france and germany. these are not bulgarian channels for migrant transport. the other thing i want to say to my colleague from the greens is that when they beat and kill bulgarians they forbid them to self-determination, don't tell me that jambazki uses hate speech. just find out what's going on in macedonia. and now for the education issue, which i'm extremely interested in. unfortunately, in bulgaria, the budget for culture is 0,4%, and for education is 4,1%. it seems to me extremely small. here some time ago we voted in our committee that the minimum budget for culture should be 2%. so if we go at this rate, bulgaria will reach it in about 150 years, i think. i assume you have some kind of action plan, because i think culture and education are extremely important and should be a top priority.
- what? the commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with article 21 of this regulation. the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am trying to start with something positive, so i want to thank prime minister denkov for his efforts and for bulgaria's guaranteed and declared pro-european, pro-atlantic orientation. unfortunately, the positive things are ending, because bulgaria has to return to the stability and predictability it had years ago. besides, she was visible when prime minister boyko borissov was here in the hall. unfortunately, bulgaria was among the countries that were shareholders in the european union and the institutions saw stability and predictability, saw fewer balloons and threads. today, that's not a fact. unfortunately, we live under the threat of impending resignations, scandals, which affect us all and bulgaria's image. investors came and stayed, and today it's not like that. i may surprise you, but contrary to the reality in bulgaria, apart from the question of who, it is very important to ask how much. for example, how much money have been paid from the european funds? i'll answer you two, two percent. how much is the recovery and sustainability plan? three, three percent. how many countries have such indicators as bulgaria? - what? not one of them. we can continue with the series of questions. what's the difference between the money agreed for 2024 and the money that will reach the municipalities? big, most likely. i think our country should once again take care of investments in municipalities and regions. european money was visible and tangible in every municipality, and that is no longer the case. and this tragedy must stop just as we must stop the transfer of funds from the old programming period to other purposes than those intended. that money was for roads, railroads, bridges, and nothing else. i therefore call on the european commission, on the basis of articles 22 and 29, to use special measures and guarantees that bulgaria will not lose european funds from the recovery and resilience plan by applying a timetable for their compliance. failure to implement the european instruments deprives people of reform and investment we're not evaluating the statements here, but the actions and the results.
madam president, mr prime minister, the government you lead justifies its existence by achieving several objectives bulgaria's membership of the schengen and the euro area, and by the need for stability in a complex geopolitical situation. on the domestic front, it remains to be seen whether the request for justice reform will be implemented. the proposed amendments to the constitution seem to be aimed at weakening the bulgarian prime minister rather than strengthening the integrity of the judiciary. five months later, can you tell us if your administration's goals will be met? with regard to the schengen you have chosen the path of the conviction of austria and the netherlands, the two countries that continue to block our path to the schengen. are you prepared to put pressure on both sides with the union's mechanisms and will you accept the halfway decision to enter lifting controls only at the air borders? and, mr. prime minister, on sunday, the yemeni houthis hijacked a ship in the black sea with 24 crew members. among them are bulgarian citizens. mr. denkov, don't you think bulgaria should have a more active role in the dialogue with the yemeni houthis? and is it right to leave the negotiations to third parties, including countries outside the european union?
the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment. a common project which must become a horizon of hope for its citizens every day. this means moving forward with the enlargement of the schengen area, as you rightly claimed, ensuring freedom of movement and opportunities for all. the commission has also proposed a new framework for the implementation of the common agricultural policy. but one thing must be clear: the european union is not just a major trading and economic bloc. europe is a community of destiny, built on common values enshrined in the treaties and making cohesion, solidarity and peace its most powerful weapons. this awareness must be reflected in our work from here to the european elections. i think of ukraine and the commitment to peace in the middle east, where at this hour a first truce is coming. it is a truce that strengthens democracy, sustainable growth and inclusion through the reform of the treaties, the stability and growth pact, the right to asylum and the consolidation of the health union. we are on a date of history, dear colleagues. and then it's time to find the courage of politics again today.
- what? the chairman, mrs. the commissioner, mr. the prime minister, colleagues, mr. prime minister, you asked the question of how we can contribute to a united europe, how bulgaria can contribute. my answer is with bulgaria's ambitious and constructive participation in the implementation of eu policies and here i will draw attention to the energy security and independence policies that are also part of the eu's green pact. what is your opinion, mr prime minister, about the potential of energy efficiency measures and the renewal of the building fund to achieve the energy mix objectives, reducing the carbon footprint and decarbonising, especially from the point of view of bulgaria? it also inherited a building fund built to outdated socialist standards.
- what? the chairman, mrs. the commissioner, mr. prime minister, welcome to the european parliament! bulgaria is a frontline state in the war that russia has launched against ukraine. the bulgarian authorities have refused to provide military aid to ukraine and thus created an impression throughout the eu that bulgaria's position on russian aggression is unclear. in the new majority in the bulgarian parliament this has already been overcome, i think, to a large extent. but precisely because of these suspicions towards bulgaria, it is important to clarify whether bulgaria controls compliance with the terms of the derogation for russian oil imports for lukoil, which the previous regular government requested from the european commission. in this respect, first, bulgaria is obliged to notify the european commission of the implementation of the 2014 embargo against russia, and secondly, specifically the decision on the derogation, it is necessary to notify the member states and the european commission of any export of lukoil that undergoes the environmental risk exemptions. i would therefore like to get a very brief and clear answer: has the bulgarian government done this and have you informed the member states and the european commission?
the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 of this regulation. the commissioner, the prime minister, has been part of the european union for 17 years. those born in the year of our accession are almost full-age citizens and yet, for political reasons, we are not full members of the most important integration unions, namely the schengen and the euro area. it is unacceptable for an entire generation to be treated as second-hand europeans. the european parliament and the european commission have repeatedly expressed their strong support for the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen acquis. for over 12 years we've met all the criteria. two questions to you, mr. prime minister. how is our partnership with romania developing and what are the possibilities for a joint reaction? and what diplomatic steps this administration has taken in recent months to convince the countries that block us that bulgarian citizens cannot be subjected to this long-term discrimination. as for the euro area, we are again late. we started this trip with croatia at the same time, but because of the political instability in our country we haven't made progress in three years.
- mrs. president, please. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable members of the high council, welcome to the european parliament. mr prime minister, the series of crises in recent years from health, energy, finance and security have affected europe and the world. it has once again been shown that the resilience of the union, on the one hand, and of course the credibility of the union, on the other, depend on the cooperation and solidarity of the member states. the union is resilient as long as we are united. it is therefore unacceptable, honourable members, that bulgaria and romania are still not part of the schengen area today, despite having fulfilled the conditions more than a decade ago. it is unacceptable, mr. prime minister, that the political overplay of the few is obstructing the european idea of many europeans. we must also put an end to this in enlargement policies which must be based on objective criteria and not on partial interests. enlargement of the european union is therefore the best strategic guarantee of long-term peace, your honor! therefore, mr prime minister, we continue to expect bulgaria to take the pro-european stance which you have defended and rightly expect on the question of the bulgarian accession to the schengen area.
madam president, mr prime minister, in the recent bulgarian political debate the concept of europe has been replaced by euro-atlanticism. in the name of euro-atlanticism bulgaria has abandoned a long-term gas supply contract while europe continues to import russian gas. in the name of euro-atlanticism and contrary to the criteria of copenhagen, bulgaria has pursued skopje's ambitions to join the union. meanwhile, in north macedonia, the bulgarians are still being persecuted without a reaction from brussels. in the name of euro-atlanticism, bulgaria is also about to abandon the derogation for russian oil imports. in the army rearmament contests, european companies were ignored. in the name of euro-atlanticism, the fight against corruption was abandoned and the current governing coalition was established. meanwhile, the schengen doors remain closed to bulgaria, the recovery and development plan is in decline, and bulgarians are increasingly refusing to vote. mr. prime minister, i think it is urgent to clarify the concepts and objectives of your government in the hope that next year's european elections will still make sense for bulgarians to go to the pits.
madam president, i voted for this resolution because i support all measures that protect bees and all other pollinators. there has been a lot of talk in recent days about food security in europe. i don't know if you understand that without bees, there's no food. no matter what pesticides you throw on the crop, no food will be available. pollinators, and in particular bees, must be protected at all costs. i do not think the measures taken are sufficient. which ensures that the new pesticides, called biopesticides, do not harm bees and pollinators. this should be a basic criterion as important as the effect on humans, because these are the kinds of tests that are being done. this is an extremely important lesson for the european union and for the member states, and you need to understand the health of bees is just as important as the health of humans and you need to stop the smuggling channels in france, germany, the netherlands and austria of pesticides that are absolutely forbidden, and these channels exist, and the illegal migration channels because they are the headquarters.
on behalf of the greens/efa group. madam president, madam commissioner, the small modular reactors are an illusion, a dangerous distraction in the name of the climate emergency. those are the words of michèle rivasi, written for that convention just two years ago. these words have not yet been heard, and the european union, with the text presented to us, is heading straight for this dangerous and costly illusion. the text calls for investment to be diverted to sobriety and renewable energy. the european union's objective is to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030. how can we defend a technology whose first reactors will not be in service until 2035? the purpose of this text is to increase the number of reactors, and thus the pressure to lower standards and the increased risk of accidents. there may be small reactors; there are no small nuclear accidents. more reactors, for a production of a few decades, also means more radioactive waste for hundreds of years, which we still do not know what to do with. this text also reflects the continuation of neocolonial relations in uranium producing countries, starting with niger. the control of uranium in this country was one of the reasons for the continuation of france's system of economic, political and military dominance, with the disastrous results we know today. but nuclear power is almost over, nuclear power is already very small: 2% of final energy consumption and production is declining, which has reached its lowest level in 30 years. nuclear power will not save the climate. these and those who claim this are lying to you. small is not always beautiful. small reactors, like big reactors, are always dangerous. we will vote against this report and we will continue the fair fight of michèle rivasi against the big and small nuclear reactors.
for the ecr group. - mrs. speaker, please. the climate goals cannot be achieved without nuclear power. it has nothing to do with politics or ideology, but it's pure science, mathematics and physics. this was said by john kerry, the us representative at the un climate conference in dubai. how long will the european commission ignore this reality? is it the enlightenment and science or the utopian solar and wind theology that has done so much damage to europe? the eu should actively encourage the development of nuclear power, and in particular the new generation of small modular reactors. then our prosperity and our competition will increase. it is time for the eu to realize that it is the citizens of europe for whom it works and no one else. these citizens deserve a sound and balanced energy and climate policy.
i am very pleased that in recent years the attitude towards nuclear power has become more positive at european level. despite the fact that more than a third of europe's non-emission electricity is generated by nuclear power, nuclear power has nevertheless been a very strong influence on the member states' positions and the commission has also been quite reluctant to promote nuclear-related projects. i think that the climate here has clearly changed now because we need to get rid of fossil fuels and we need efficient, clean ways to produce energy safely and steadily. and nuclear power is exactly the solution. this positive attitude is demonstrated by the fact that last week the council of ministers took a position to list nuclear power as a net zero technology, that is, to promote nuclear-related technologies. parliament has already taken a similar position. this attitude is also shown by the fact that this very good report by mr bogovic on small nuclear power plants was very widely supported by the vote of the committee on industry and energy. these modular small reactors are now being the subject of a very high level of international interest at the global level. these are smaller investments than conventional nuclear power plants. we have the opportunity to produce these in series, to place them more flexibly than traditional large nuclear power plants in different places and to regulate this production more easily. but now we have to invest much more in research and development to keep europe in this competition. we also have many member states in europe that have developed projects in this field, but we need a european framework to support research, product development and innovation in this field. we also need a framework to promote joint licensing and flexible licensing processes so that we can actually start serial production and get investments started quickly, thus reducing emissions in europe and producing our own energy.
madam president, europe is a proven leader in nuclear energy in the global market and we need to keep investing in skills and innovation if we want to keep our competitive advantage. the pledge made last week by 22 countries at cop28 to triple nuclear energy capacity by 2050 is a clear indication of the direction that has been taken. small modular reactors are a promising and upcoming technology that can complement the existing nuclear reactors. their deployment, however, should not be at the expense of the high safety standards we have here in europe. our national safety nuclear agencies are working in strong collaboration to ensure that the new technologies are compliant with all the necessary safety standards. this report is definitely going in the right direction, but we shouldn’t expect smrs to be the silver bullet that would resolve all of our problems. and most importantly, when we speak about deployment and usage of smrs, we should have a strong stand on prioritising and developing european technologies. we have all the necessary prerequisites. we have the nuclear energy technology expertise. we have the european specialist. we have the highest safety standards in the world. let’s use all that in developing and deploying european smrs. at the same time, we have to keep investing in creating a balanced energy mix and, above all, a well-interconnected grid, if we want to achieve the climate and green targets that we have set ahead of us.
mr president, the truth is that we are witnessing a global race for resource control in the context of an ecological emergency. the material basis of the green transition is in dispute, which generates a real global extractivist fever. the european union is filling its mouth with its green deal, but for electric cars to be in europe, it needs to increase the pressure on mining in the global south and here in europe as well. a raw material that is not only for a green transition but also to fuel the european arms race. a genuine green capitalism stained with blood because extractivist pressure not only plunders resources and contaminates territories, but also represents and expels those who inhabit and defend them. although there are more and more examples of resistance facing this extractivist fever, such as the ecuador anti-mining front, which we salute from here. the solution is not a new wave of extractivism and neo-colonialism, but to consume less and distribute better. green capitalism is barren in the face of the climate and ecological urgency we are living in.
mr president, commissioner breton, dear colleagues, all the technologies we will need to reach our climate ambitious goals will require huge quantities of raw materials. electric cars, solar panels, batteries, itc technologies and more have a greater need for the critical raw materials. we need strategic partnerships with third countries to be able to diversify and ensure a stable supply of those materials. we have to refine them in the eu and produce the final products here ourselves and this can only happen by cutting red tape, boosting innovation and developing alternative ways of production. enhancing circularity and ambitious recycling targets are crucial to achieve net-zero production levels here in the eu. this legislation sets the right economic incentives for a more stable, secure, sustainable and socially responsible model for the deployment of mining and recycling projects. of course, that includes also the faster permitting procedures. we cannot build a new green economy without ensuring the existence of the necessary resources.
that concludes the vote. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
the next item is the debate on the report by tomislav sokol and annalisa tardino, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european health data space (com(2022)0197 – c9-0167/2022 – 2022/0140(cod)) (a9-0395/2023).
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteurs. as opinion rapporteur for the itre committee, i supported many important proposals of the european health data space initiative, especially the provisions aimed at providing better health outcomes. the idea of initiative on ehds and asking for a european health record was introduced in the eu4health programme – i was the rapporteur – and was one of my priorities. as itre rapporteur and ema contact person i emphasised that the prudent implementation of the gdpr is necessary to avoid unnecessary restrictions for health research and data sharing, key to apply artificial intelligence and machine-learning tools to research, and to enabling the digital transformation of healthcare to tackle disparities in prevention, diagnosis and treatment around europe. i echo the agreement reached by my colleagues and am happy to see that itre definition and approach of opt-out was finally endorsed. once again, congratulations colleagues, and i hope that the negotiations will go smoothly and we have a very good legislation on digital healthcare in europe.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the european health data space is a strong pillar of what we have all been working together for – a strong european health union – and you have been champions of this effort from the very beginning. the european health data space aims to empower citizens to have control of their own health data. it also allows the use of this data for research, innovation and policymaking, but under very strict conditions. so, i want to start by firstly thanking the two co-rapporteurs – members sokol and tardino – for putting so much work into this proposal. now, we have stressed from the very beginning – and we have been the voices together with you – that in order for this to work, citizens’ trust is indispensable. we also need to be aware that the digital divide in our societies today will become the health inequalities of tomorrow. many citizens face difficulties in accessing their own health data and in exercising their rights as citizens, their rights as patients. too often, patients cannot benefit from innovative treatments, because we cannot yet properly harness the potential of health data. so we all discussed the importance of innovation, the importance of innovation in europe. but if patients cannot benefit from these innovative treatments, because we cannot harness the potential of health data, then we’re really not working towards this important objective. i’m very happy to see that your report supports the objectives of our proposal. now we need to be pragmatic when it comes to the certification of electronic health record systems, because the trust of the citizens will not be served if these requirements are too burdensome to work in practice. now, honourable members, you have called for the introduction of an opt-out for the reuse of health data and an opt-in for genetic data. i will share with you the view – and i fully agree that patients need to be at the centre of all our health policies, at the centre of the european health union, and i fully support what has already been said, the need to protect patients’ data. but we can achieve this goal if we put in very strong safeguards. we will ensure the anonymisation or pseudonymisation of data. we will require that the data is processed only in secure environments with the highest standards of privacy and cybersecurity, and we will provide for strict rules for permits with a clear list of prohibited uses. having an opt-out can introduce bias into the data, because in particular, minority groups could be negatively affected by this if they are not represented in the data set, as we all know from research, new treatments or health applications, on which they need, they will not have their data into this. so we need to be very mindful of this when we are discussing the need for opt-out. we should also be mindful of our international obligations, without, of course, jeopardising security and data protection. the general data protection regulation imposes very strict conditions on international data transfers. this should be our backstop here. so, dear members, in ending – and i will have the opportunity in my closing remarks to discuss many of the points that i’m sure you will put forward – i believe that the european health data space can really push forward for new, life-saving treatments. i firmly believe that it can facilitate progress on personalised medicine and ai. i believe that it can help researchers for a lot of time and effort. last but not least, it will give citizens and patients access and control of their own data in a very easy way. so thank you very much and i look forward to the discussion.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. the european health data area can make a real difference for patients in the eu a digital space that allows my doctor in luxembourg to access the data that a doctor in france stored for my last treatment there. but of course, my dentist doesn't necessarily need to know that i was also being treated by a psychologist. in this digital space, i can decide for whom i open a door and who i show a door at all. this also applies to my anonymized health data, which can be used for research, for example. a pool of anonymised data from across europe that can be a real game changer for research, for future treatments, but also for prevention of health crises. a particularly important advantage of the data space is that it provides access to people with a rare disease 30 million people in the eu. 95% of them support this creation. because this data space creates hope: a way to access specialized medical care in other european countries, get diagnosed earlier, and learn more about his little-known disease through research. and access to my own data, just from home. data protection is of course the a and o of this space, because health data is sensitive information that can only fall into the hands of those for whom it is intended. i would like to ask you to support this text.
the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. i think it's wonderful that i, like all of you, will have all my health data on my smartphone in the future. medical reports, x-rays, medications, medication plans all should be available on the smartphone or other digital device in the future. this is something really great. if you don't want that, you have to have the ability to object, and not have to access your data digitally. but the possibility of having the chance to do that, i think, is very great. i think that the commission is very concerned about the need to ensure that the european parliament is able to take action in the field of health and safety. we want to make a big impact in this digital world, we want to create our data spaces in europe, and we just need data that is readily available, that can be used, that can be anonymized, that can be pseudonymized. the proposal has a lot of good in it to ensure that data protection is really respected. but what's crucial is that in this data world, we also play a role in europe. and i think with this piece of legislation, which we hope to pass tomorrow, we have made a very big step forward. and i ask you all, my dear colleagues, to carry this out. it is a great opportunity for every consumer, every patient and every patient to have everything digitally available right here in the future, and all over europe. i hope that tomorrow we will send the right signal here and support the proposal with a very wide vote.
madam president, madam commissioner, personal health space data generally is highly sensitive information that deserves highest level of protection. the ehds is intended to facilitate the sharing of health data across the eu, which could be beneficial to patients, for instance, accessing health services cross-border. this must be done, however, in a way that protects the privacy and security of individuals whose data is being shared. the ehds will give enormous possibilities to the healthcare sector, but this has to go hand in hand with the necessary safeguards. eu citizens should remain in full control of their health data and should have the right to say when and how someone can access their data, no matter how noble the goal is. obtaining health data for secondary use can only happen for a number of specific purposes, which have to be in line with article 9 of gdpr. ensuring personal data protection is not just a legal or technical issue, it’s also a social and ethical issue. transparency and informed consent are key elements in fostering trust and empowering individuals to make informed decisions about the use of their health data. better data protection will increase trust in the ehds, and make it more likely that individuals will be willing to participate and share their health data. this is essential for the success of the initiative. if we don’t give them the possibility to express their consent, we will be creating incentives for people to lie or hide information from their doctors.
the european health data area (eeds) is an initiative of great importance. by implementing it, more and better healthcare will be provided to people who need it, including by promoting this space as an essential component for the development of the health union; by implementing an opt-out mechanism, where applicable, for access to secondary health data; by promoting and using this data for the development of innovative products and services; by making the european data development area compatible with other european programmes, including horizon europe and digital europe; by improving data interoperability using common standards and its integration with the european digital identity project; and also by contributing to access to secondary health data for research and innovation purposes, which can, secondly, contribute to fairer and more accessible prices for all.
the commissioner, mrs stella kyriakides, and colleagues, have shown that this mandate is a good one: the union is strong, especially in the health sector. this proposal for a european health data area is a real step forward for a europe of health, as my colleague catherine amalric has said. the key objectives are to ensure that european citizens have access to and control over their health data, and then to ensure the free movement of citizens throughout europe, to which we are very attached, by ensuring that their health data can be tracked. this is a european priority that my delegation, my group, renew europe, has been constantly stressing since the covid-19 pandemic. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. it is together that we can find solutions. we have been strong in fighting together, madam commissioner, against covid-19, buying vaccines together, building the covid pass together. for all these reasons, and in memory, if you will, of my colleague veronique trilletlenoir, i propose that you continue our commitment to the health of european citizens together.
madam president, we live in an information age, but in fact, it's also a time of lack of information. this text, thank god, is a big step in the right direction and covers serious flaws in health systems. it is important to build on the existing measures for exchanging information on the rare diseases i want to speak about specifically. we'll be able to collect and provide real-world health data for research and innovation, and that will help tremendously to rare diseases that are too little studied. it's just that there's no database. it's about 36 million people. but the creation of such a space took too, too long. while the administrative procedures are going on, tens of thousands of people are dying in europe. i'm not saying you kill them, you just let them die because of your bureaucracy, which is completely abnormal and unnatural. i'm talking about the commission and the council. we are the representatives of european citizens and we have a duty to protect their right to life. i don't think your colleagues would want to be burdened with thousands of dead people just because of your irresponsibility.
mr president, in the wake of the union's high ambitions in the green and digital transition and three years after the call of the european parliament, the commission has not yet put forward a proposal for the right to leave the workplace because negotiations with the social partners have been fruitless. we live in a dynamic time that requires new approaches, updating and modernising labour markets. digital tools provide workers and businesses with greater autonomy and flexibility in the organisation of work, but they should not create new ways to extend working time and blur the lines between working and personal time. it is important to ensure a minimum level of protection for workers in the new digital work environment through common european regulation. mr commissioner, we need a european framework that allows for rapid adaptation to changing working conditions.
blue-card question. – mrs villanueva ruiz, in the english translation that i followed, you said that gaza is being turned into an extermination area by israel. can you please explain that sentence?
mr. chairman, we must help israel destroy hamas. the humanitarian truce and the release of the hostages are only part of the implementation of this task. peaceful civilians were called in and had enough time to leave the combat zone. why didn't they? who stopped them? peace negotiations with terrorists are not being conducted. the nazis used to hide their crimes. today, the palestinians are openly happy and proud of the killings carried out by hamas. they're not protesting hamas, so the issue is not whether they should have their own state, but what it will be. she doesn't have to be a terrorist. the palestinians had the opportunity to make gaza an attractive place for tourism, business, for life, but instead they dug tunnels and sowed death. there are many nations in the world that do not have their own nation state. what do palestinians deserve to have a state like this? (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card procedure)
answer a question posed by raising a blue card. all people are equal, but some people have their own state, their own national state, and many other people live in multinational states. and while this people, the palestinian, is admitted to itself, feeds, clothes, helps terrorist organizations, it's not logical, it's not moral, it's not civil, it's not european, it's not humane to have a state of its own.
mr. chairman, i must admit that in the face of the monstrous human casualties and destruction, it is difficult for me to speak of other types of defeats of russian aggression in ukraine. the truth is, however, that more and more people in europe are feeling the economic burden, the economic problems caused by this aggression, and first of all, they are caused precisely by the deliberate destruction of the natural, water and energy resources of the ukrainian state by the kremlin regime. the destruction of the dam in kakhovka, for example, has caused severe damage to tourism throughout the black sea basin and in my country bulgaria. but first of all, there is a defeat, a threat that will remain far away after the end of hostilities, god forbid it will be soon. it will be far from over when the economic problems are overcome, and that is the threat to our health from this aggression. because we remember chernobyl and we are terrified of what may follow from the destruction that the putin regime is inflicting. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card procedure)
blue-card answer. – thank you very much, colleague bütikofer. i think it is in a way part of our next debate here in this hemicycle. but yes, i think that facing this war, we must always keep in mind that the free world is not a notion from the past, that there are a lot of countries – including prosperous countries – who are helping now putin to sustain his war efforts. and i am absolutely certain that we must stay united, not only supporting ukraine, but also impeding these attempts.
mr president, two hours ago in sofia the demolition of the monument to the occupying red army began and now the symbol of its power the spaggin machine is falling to the ground where it belongs. this monument for decades has been meant to remind us that we are not part of the free world, that we are doomed to an asian dictatorship. why am i telling you this? i'm saying this to remind you that the free world still exists today. moreover, only he and one can deal with the great risks and challenges we face with global uncertainty, with climate risk, with the dangers posed by uncontrollable development of artificial intelligence. and if we in europe are afraid that in this free-world partnership we are somehow weaker, that we are less united, that we are economically lagging behind, that is a problem that we here, inside together, must solve, but as part of the free world.
mr president, i find this debate extremely ironic because this crisis was created by the so-called green deal and the attempts to destroy the european economy. the problem will not be solved by building new social housing. there are as many cheap homes in the country as you want, but young people don't want to go there just because they have no prospects. young people don't want to be farmers. we've done everything we can to depopulate entire areas of europe. the problem is social. for years, the traditional christian family has been in ruins. it gave me some protection, some home, some perspective. young people, as you can see, no longer marry young, they marry much older, simply because they can't support their families. this is a crisis of spirit and a crisis of our entire society. we know very well that the european union will focus only on migrants and the socially vulnerable, who are also largely second- and third-generation migrants who have never worked in their lifetimes. this will again show that young european citizens are not really a priority for the european union at all.
mr president, 2022 was the european year of youth. the european union has shown that it has a vision and works for the future that young people want, but that is not enough. now is the time for concrete action. the housing crisis and the rising cost of living faced by young people demand a rapid and clear response. young people need the support of the union to cope with the financial difficulties they face. initiatives to make housing more affordable are needed. on the other hand, living costs also include other aspects such as education, healthcare and other services. our aim should be to create equal opportunities for all young people in europe, regardless of their social status, financial situation or place of residence. the prosperity and development of the eu depend on the adequate opportunities we give to young people today.
mr president, mr commissioner, 95 million people - i have already said this and i will remind you again - 95 million people in the european union are at risk of poverty, many of them young people. this is a number that should embarrass us and it is imperative that we eliminate it. that is why, in the face of such a blatant crisis which disproportionately affects young europeans, such as the price of housing and the rapid rise in the cost of living throughout the union, exacerbated by the blind rise in interest rates by the european central bank, which we want to see falling, we demand a response that is also european. in response to this crisis, what is the european right doing besides leaving this plenary empty? what are psd and cds doing? they are mobilizing to prevent taxes on private jets. that's good! most young europeans, certainly private jet owners, appreciate your votes yesterday. public education, free daycare, progressive income increases and unprecedented investment in public housing are now a reality in portugal. if we want young europeans to believe in the european project again and to see europe as a path of hope and emancipation, then this is the path we must follow at european level. we want a european housing strategy and we want it now! to paraphrase josé mario blanco: "fuck the future, we want to be happy now".
mr president, housing is a universal right, a right that is fundamental to the development of young people and should not depend on social status, sex or age. but it does happen. in this legislature we are focused on improving the sustainability, design and accessibility of our buildings. initiatives such as the 'renewal oil' initiative, the new building energy efficiency directive or the european new bauhaus work to improve the quality of our neighbourhoods and homes. but the first step is to ensure access to quality, affordable housing for all young people, leaving no one behind. and let us not forget the dramatic situation faced by many erasmus students in the face of the lack of accommodation in their destinations. even those who can afford it do not enjoy unhindered educational mobility. we have to act. we need a european strategy with measures and funding so that young workers and students can have a roof, a home, to develop as people.
mr president, dear commissioner, colleagues, we have to address the problem that young people across europe cannot afford to buy their own house. following the 2008 financial crisis, s&d created the eu programmes to tackle unemployment, and over the past ten years we’ve seen the results of these actions all across the member states of the eu. we need dedicated support measures that stimulate young couples to buy their first home. the percentage of young people in their 30s living with their parents is at an unprecedented level in europe, and this is yet another divisive line in our continent, because most of those cases are in southern europe. today, more than ever, we need a europe-wide housing affordability policy. we have to use the best practices and apply them all across the eu. ensuring access to a decent home is a fundamental human right.
it's in writing. the lisbon treaty has significantly modified the eu structure by introducing new forms of relations between the institutions, which has manifested itself in a completely new set of prerogatives for all parties involved. in the case of article 218 tfeu, this meant strengthening the position of the european parliament, since its consent became necessary for agreements on matters subject to a regular or special legislative procedure. article 218 tfeu establishes a coherent procedure for the stages of the conclusion of international agreements between the eu and third countries as it affects different aspects of the negotiation and conclusion of international agreements. in addition, that provision lays down a voting procedure for the council, which may decide by a qualified majority or by unanimity. it is therefore natural that the practical implications for the eu position-making matters with regard to third countries' accession to the hague conference on international private law convention, in particular with regard to the non-objection procedure contained therein, continue to require full understanding. in my view, it is absolutely unjustified to amend the treaties in this respect. i do not see here any scope for pursuing different practices than strict compliance with the procedure laid down in article 218 tfeu. it is also important that the court has repeatedly pointed out that only the substantive legal basis of an act determines the procedures to be followed in issuing it. certainly, such a basis cannot be the opposite opinion of some of the institutions concerned.
mr kelly has asked for the floor, and i can ask for your peace.
a uachtaráin, i just want briefly to bring to the attention of colleagues the sad passing of james temple-smithson, head of the european parliament office in dublin, at the tender age of only 50 years. james was a gentleman, number one, and also hugely respected by his colleagues, and particularly my irish mep colleagues. we valued his good work, his enthusiasm for the european project and particularly the respect he showed to all irish meps and all those he dealt with. i hope that expressing our condolences here today will go in some way to ease the burden of grief on his family. go raibh míle maith agat, a uachtaráin. ar dheis dé go raibh a anam dílis. maith thú. (bualadh bos)
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes.)
mr president, this report is a response to the repeated calls of the start-up industry across the eu. it is the beginning of the first european legislation on the start-up sector. this is the only way we can guarantee a future of innovation, a future for our young entrepreneurs. start-ups are a catalyst for innovation, economic growth and employment in the union. the start-up sector accounts for over 3% of gdp and amounts to eur 2 trillion. the sector employs over 2 million people in the union. the numbers and statistics speak for themselves, but a clear definition of startups is still lacking. this hinders the effectiveness of existing policies and stops the growth potential. the legislative report we are initiating ensures that the european start-up industry will receive the support it needs. support in areas such as defining and identifying these enterprises, access to finance and new markets, retaining talent in europe, competitiveness in global markets. i would like to ask you, mr president, to take a clear and decisive action on behalf of the start-up industry throughout the eu. supporting this industry is not just economic policy, it's a commitment to the future. a future where innovation thrives, jobs increase and europe remains a world leader in technology. let's work together to create an environment that ensures the growth and success of our startups. let's let them reach their full potential. i thank all the speakers for their good cooperation and for their recognition of the importance of this subject. i ask you to support the report, let's give european startups a chance.
