in writing. once again turkey has shown its blackmailing attitude towards nato, using sweden to do so. what will be your attitude towards turkey ? the policy of appeasement has failed miserably. turkey continues its increasing provocations and unlawful actions against cyprus, particularly in the encircled area of famagusta, the further militarization of the occupied and the exploitation of illegal migrants by turkey. i would therefore like a clear answer as to the position of the swedish presidency on the cyprus question and on the other issues. the european union must be able to take a more active role in the world, and the european union must be able to play a more active role in the world.
mr president, mr borrell, a europe without a common foreign and security policy is a giant standing on clay feet. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity, but a political entity. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. if you want, i can share with you many examples where europe pays, but others are in charge. the european union has a long-standing commitment to the peace process in the middle east. the absence of a common foreign policy also gives rise to the unacceptable tactic of two measures and two stations. you want another example? sanctions against russia for invading ukraine, no sanctions against turkey for invading cyprus. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
madam president, i am speechless. i will rather call voltaire to talk on my part. i quote: ‘entombed beneath roofs, and they die without relief from the horror of their suffering lives. as the dying voices call out, will you dare respond to this appalling spectacle of smouldering ashes with: “this is the necessary effect of the eternal laws freely chosen by god”? seeing this mass of victims, will you say: “god is avenged. their death is the price of their crimes”? what crime, what fault had the young committed?’ voltaire wrote these lines in 1775 after the earthquake in lisbon. by now, we know it is not god. not even nature entirely. it is human society, bad governance and zeal for profit. and it can be only healed with solidarity. we must support the victims of this biblical catastrophe in türkiye and syria, support the turkish-cypriot families who lost their beloved ones who went to turkey just for a volleyball match between schools. let’s help them, so that the kids can play volleyball again.
madam president, i would like to express my shock and condolences to the victims of the devastating earthquake in syria and turkey. cyprus is thinking of those affected. we mourn the 48 turkish cypriots who were lost in the rubble, including dozens of children. their pain is our pain. in times when nature reminds us that we are weak, unity and solidarity are needed. we must act as the european union without delay to support the affected areas. but i must say this. mr erdoğan has refused the offer of my country, cyprus, to send rescuers and humanitarian aid because he does not recognise the republic of cyprus. someone should tell him that in the face of human suffering, there is no room for petty politics.
in writing. unfortunately, violence against women, and in particular domestic violence, remains a common phenomenon in the eu and a nightmare. gender-based violence remains one of the greatest threats to the full enjoyment of human and fundamental rights in the world. the evidence is shocking. 137 women are murdered every day by their partner or a member of their family. one in three women worldwide has experienced physical and/or sexual violence during her lifetime. each year 150 million girls worldwide are raped or sexually assaulted, often by someone in their immediate circle. we must put an end to this. europe and the eu must take the lead in this effort. no tolerance for gender-based violence. we demand transnational cooperation and immediate ratification of the istanbul convention by all the member states of the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it is all unacceptable now through the transmission of the virus from cyprus to greece and through the predator, but also by the greek intelligence service, with the knowledge of the greek prime minister, greek mps, ministers, journalists and parties were monitored. mr. mitsotakis shouldn't be held accountable for all this. greece, of course, is not a dictatorship. but is this the rule of law? the recommendations of the pegasus report, which you, the council and the commission have all denounced, point the way forward. restore and strengthen legal and institutional safeguards. urgently withdraw all export licenses for surveillance software. ensure free and unhindered investigation of all allegations of spyware attacks. restore the full independence of the judiciary and all relevant supervisory bodies. witness protection in the public interest. ensure the independence of the leadership of the national transparency authority. urgent police investigation for misuse of spy software and seizure of physical evidence of anyone connected to it. what about all this, mr. mitsotaki? will you do something?
madam president, commissioner, the european council's conclusions are in the right direction. but is it enough ? i hear strong criticism, but i don't hear from some quarters suggestions on how to solve the immigration issue. i hear no fences, no walls. i hate fences and walls more than anyone, because turkey put a fence in cyprus and divided my country. i hate fences. but tell me what we can do when dozens of people come from turkey every day, not from war zones, by air from turkey to the free areas of the republic. where is frontex? what is the role of frontex? turkey receives billions from the european union and does not respect its agreements. how can we force her? these are the issues we must address and leave aside the populism.
in writing. my anxiety about the future in nagorno karabakh is intensifying as the instability created by the blockade of the vital latyn corridor is creating huge problems. both the azerbaijani invasion and the current situation in the latyn corridor happened and is happening with erdogan's blessings. in order to serve his own interests and remain in power, he does not hesitate to gamble with the lives of tens of thousands of people. the relationship between the leaders of both countries, turkey and azerbaijan, is very close, since they are dictators who oppress their own people. this cannot be tolerated any longer. the international court of justice in the hague ordered azerbaijan to take all measures at its disposal to ensure the unimpeded movement of persons, vehicles and goods along the latyn corridor. the eu is interested in mobilizing joint efforts to deal effectively and comprehensively with the humanitarian issue. however, i cannot help stressing that as long as conflicts continue, whether they are small and local or large in scale, finding solutions to such issues is becoming more difficult. this is precisely why the eu must show its determination and unity immediately.
mr president, commissioner, congratulations to the rapporteurs for their very important work! today we are taking a very important step, because in a europe which wants to be defined as a europe of equality and equity, the gender pay gap is unacceptable. it is not only unacceptable, it is sad, unacceptable and offensive to all of us who have come here with the vote of the european citizens. let's look at some facts together: women in europe are paid 13% less than men. there are huge variations from country to country. a higher proportion of women in parttime work (30% women, 8% men). women work more hours each week than men. one third of women are forced to take time off work to care for children. these and many other factors prove, ladies and gentlemen, that equal pay for equal work does not exist in europe today, and if it does not exist, we cannot speak of a europe of equality and equity. we cannot talk much without doing all that is necessary to right this injustice. today we take an important step. there's still a long way to go, and we need to stick together.
mr president, i welcome you to the european parliament. as a member of the european parliament from a small country, cyprus, i welcome the leader of another small european country, but one which has made a great contribution to the european project. the european union is united by its principles and values, which we must all uphold. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the middle east, and that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east. i am sorry to say that we small member states have not received the solidarity or support that we deserve. i would like to thank you warmly for the principled stance your country has taken on the cyprus problem, a problem of invasion and occupation. i also thank you for your country's position on the very serious issue of immigration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's external borders, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january 1993, is a very important step towards the creation of a single european market. otherwise we will simply be talking about a europe of the few and the powerful, which i am sure neither you nor we will accept.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. today is just a reminder that this world does not belong to us. we borrowed it from our children. our children, who are our future, the purest part of society. kids are tomorrow and they deserve better days than we're giving them. children should not be victims of war. children should not be in pain, fighting, dying from bombing and bullets. children should not work, starve, suffer, be abused. kids should smile, go to school, play, dream, have fun with their childhood. children are our world and this world is more beautiful because there are children in it, our children. and if even one child is saved, then there's hope.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you call on the political deadlock of the union and the fear of the far right to change the treaties and to abolish unanimity in decision-making. you're pretending you don't see the elephant in the room. it is neoliberal and feeds on policies of austerity, authoritarianism in decision-making, climate change, tax evasion, the arbitrariness of the so-called free market, the inhuman immigration policy, violence against women and non-defense of peace. and i wonder if you can sleep at night. let's be honest with you. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. the far right, by the way, you need it once and you invoke it and you make it your tool. you just want to silence the voice of small states, to make very powerful states stronger. but this democracy itself will be undermined too much. your nice proclamations are not convincing. change policies together and the treaties, but in the opposite direction. but i guess you don't want to, and you can't.
mr president, commissioner borrell, the developments in the gaza strip, the temporary ceasefire announced a few hours ago, which includes the return of prisoners, open a small window of hope. from the very beginning we condemned the terrorist attack of hamas, which opened the ark of the covenant. we have defended israel's right to self-defense, while at the same time declaring that civilians and the ordinary palestinian people should not pay for hamas' crimes. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. i would like to remind you, mr borrell, of cyprus' initiative to create a humanitarian corridor from my country to the war zone. cyprus is the closest geographical european territory to the conflict area and is a practical participant in the efforts to resolve the humanitarian issue. i am pleased, mr borrell, that you support this initiative. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of certain products.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, commissioner, what has been published about the cyprus investigative report must be thoroughly investigated and if any violations are found by anyone, there is one way: the way to justice. there is no debate on this. those who stole, if they stole, those who broke the laws, if they broke them, yes, go to jail, no matter how high they are. the commission has also been asked to take a decision on the implementation of the programme, which is being implemented in the framework of the european union. the target is cyprus. not unfairly, with what's being published. but i must remind you here of some other truths that we must not forget. the european union experimented in 2013 with cyprus by cutting deposits. thousands of my countrymen have become impoverished. thousands of possessions were lost in one night. fortunately, ten years after that, the experiment has not been repeated anywhere else. one more truth: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission, and the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. that's a good thing to remember. i stand before you and i defend my people and my country and not the thieves and those who exploited any weaknesses of the program. i repeat, the sooner those involved pay, the sooner they do, the sooner my country's name will be cleared.
on behalf of the left. mr president, commissioner, we are tired of hearing big words. fortunately, there are honest journalists, and i congratulate them, of course, on revealing the depth of a system of corruption and complexity. it is this system that, by its inaction and its addiction to opacity, the institutions of the european union themselves maintain, in the name of the free market, tax havens and the protection of theft. presidents, prime ministers and other officials of member states are occasionally involved in scandals. unfortunately, and the former president of my own country, mr. anastasiades, along with a handful of other dignitaries. but our people, the people of cyprus, you know, are not thieves. they're honest people who can't get along and get angry at what they hear. because they know nothing will happen here or in my country. let me remind you of the panama papers. did you do something? you will talk to us and you have already told us about various laws, as if that is the problem, while at the same time some people are cleverly ignoring corruption and complexity. because the problem is systemic. because there's a saying, "one hand wears the other and both face". it's as simple as that.
mr president, last june mrs von der leyen said that the ukrainians were ready to make sacrifices for the european perspective. earlier, with the outbreak of war, he arbitrarily and emotionally ascribed to them the status of an annexed country. i wonder if these are considered criteria for enlargement. madam vice president, you said criteria must be met. the european court of auditors recently stated that there are insufficient anti-corruption safeguards in ukraine, while also speaking of a systemic risk from oligarchs and vested interests. where does the rule of law stand? the question i am referring to is not the case in ukraine, in moldova or in any other country participating in the process. if they want it and they deserve it, let them have it. but are we, through any enlargement, lowering the scope of the criteria to a very low degree, serving other purposes? are the peoples and their interests, their democratization and their prosperity, or the service of geopolitical expediency by the powerful states of the union, at last concerned?
on behalf of the left. mr president, mr reynders, when you say we must do and have things, who are you telling? to us ? and what's your job, then? the pega committee has been working very hard for 15 months. we gave you everything: facts, sinful companies, names and addresses, guilty states. we also made recommendations, because the problem is too serious. no one was moved. nor did the government of cyprus, of course, of my own country, which had too much to do. the reaction of your own committee, i apologize, is regrettable. you're not a legislator. you referred us to the national authorities. these are illegal, citing national security and the public interest. the surveillance scandals are endless. software manufacturing and exporting companies are treasuring. you whistle indifferently. democracy, whatever democracy you have, is a walk in the park. is that all the indifference anymore? finally, do something. keep your dignity.
in writing. – one out of three women has encountered physical or sexual violence. domestic violence claims the lives of approximately 50 women every week. within professional environments, 75 % of women have faced sexual harassment, and it is estimated that 1 in 2 young women has experienced gender-based cyber violence. ιt is unacceptable for women to feel unsafe in any aspect of their life: in public, online, their workplace, in their own home. victims must not be re-traumatised during the legal process. the persistent and extensive impunity for those who commit acts of violence against women and domestic violence is unacceptable. every woman should be granted the protection she is legally entitled to. essential is also the recognition of children who have witnessed violence against women and domestic violence as victims. due consideration ought to be given to the best interests of the child. community-led initiatives within my home country, cyprus, like the ‘insavior’ free application providing practical and immediate assistance to women in danger, are commendable. however, they also serve as a reminder that threats to women’s safety are on the rise. the directive tackling violence against women and domestic violence is a much anticipated and very welcome response to a long-standing call from the european parliament.
i would like to say that the commissioner has not yet made a decision on the matter. we are living in the last months of this parliamentary term, during which events like brexit, the covid pandemic, wars, the migration boom took place. all of this raises too many questions about what europe we want. we are all, therefore, as elected representatives, sincerely called upon to give answers to the citizens. we must, in view of the june election, say clearly: we want a strong europe with a common foreign and security policy? do we want a europe that deals with migration together or a europe where everyone looks at their own home? we want a europe with equal members and a veto or a europe where the voices of the children are drowned out? we want a europe that stands on its own feet or that is a haven of progress? the challenges are ahead of us and we must be prepared to face them. this is what european citizens demand of us: to answer these questions with sincerity and courage. if we can give convincing answers, then we'll get the citizens to vote. i think that is perhaps the most important challenge.
the commissioner has said that the commission is not prepared to take any further action to prevent the spread of the disease. public health is a good which every member state has a social responsibility and a duty to ensure. it is necessary to have equal access, equal care for european citizens, in whatever member state they reside. the european health data area is the mainstay of the european health union. we have learned many lessons from the covid pandemic, most notably that the issue of health knows no boundaries and should be tackled collectively and as a priority. every life is precious and must be treated as such. it is not possible for a child to die in romania or cyprus, whereas it could be saved in germany, for example. i would like to congratulate and thank you for your dedication to working towards this, to eliminate inequalities, for a better and healthier world.
mr president, we europeans are in front of a historical challenge, and we have huge responsibilities towards jews and palestinians alike. we should never forget that anti-semitism was mainly a european malady, that the jews were for centuries despised, humiliated, eventually exterminated en masse. the western world has victimised also the arabs. the roots of the israeli palestinian conflict lies in the colonialist policies of western powers. hence, today, we have an ethical obligation and a political responsibility. we have to ensure the immediate end of israel’s attack on the palestinian people and pave the way for the two-state solution. we have to make sure that israel finally understands that it is one thing to build their homeland for the jews, and another to force palestinians to deportation and condemn them to remain stateless. as the nobel prize winning israeli author, amos oz, has repeatedly emphasised, the two-state solution is also for the best interests of israel and the jewish people overall.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights and the right to a fair trial. rising energy prices, high inflation, austerity policies and stiff wages make private housing an unattainable dream. one million european citizens are homeless, 40 million people are overindebted. poor and middle-income households spend 40% of their income on rent. single-parent families are being mercilessly affected. the cost of the new workers and students is enormous. the new stability and development pact implements fiscal policies that lead to a new wave of austerity. if we really want to reduce the problem, there are solutions: new quality jobs, ensuring a minimum and decent income, financial aid to young people and students, freezing and setting a ceiling on rent, financing of new apartments by the state at affordable prices. let some of that happen.
