mr president, madam executive vice-president, madam minister, the single market seeks to guarantee the four freedoms and thanks to that, european citizens can study, live, shop, work, run their own business, retire, you name it, in any eu country they wish to. in order to secure all this, we need to regularly adjust rules on the single market to adapt to new situations. one such adjustment is the digital markets act, which is crucial for a fair, competitive and trustworthy digital single market. with the digital markets act, europe has made the right choice and there are many more legislative acts in which we can contribute to the digital single market, but we will need to make the right choices – the artificial intelligence act, the media freedom act, the european identity wallet, the rules on political advertising, to name just some of these legislative acts. at the same time, the 30th anniversary is a great opportunity to remind ourselves that it is high time to renew our commitment to a single market that delivers for consumers and businesses. we have to eliminate digital barriers that prevent citizens from accessing online services across member states equally, such as geo—blocking of digital services.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, as many mentioned, video games are a highly innovative digital sector in europe, and therefore we need to realise that building a trustworthy online environment and increasing consumer trust can boost the economic growth. therefore we need to evaluate where the current consumer protection legislation already covers unfair practices and dark patterns, and where protection from addicting techniques is missing. at the same time, i would like to highlight that many games are based on collaborative creation, so we need to be really careful when referring to child labour. i also want to warn against the mandatory introduction of age verification as it raises concerns over privacy. finally, we absolutely need to refrain from calling or, even worse, mandating the use of automated tools to ‘protect’ users from harmful content, because they are inefficient and have negative consequences on freedom of expression, access to information and creativity, which i believe is related to what you said, commissioner, when you referred to our legislation proposed by the commission in 2022 – i’m finishing president – that i believe was a fight against child sexual abuse. when you refer to grooming, that is also known as chat control that legislation – i believe that chat control will not help us to fight sexual abuse and we need to be really careful how we do that because we want to fight it, but not this way.
mr president, commissioner, we are facing a shortage of medicines in europe at the moment. the situation is very worrying and, once again, it shows a little bit the limits of a tight-flow, profit-based production system. in france, seasonal infections have returned to the fore, with doliprane, efferalgan, paracetamol, and the antibiotic amoxicillin added to the list of 277 medicines out of stock. in ireland, 212 medicines are unavailable, including at least 11 on the who critical medicines list. so, what do we hear? we are told that it is because of the number of patients too high, because of the prices of medicines too low. or, finally, this time it is not a problem of active substances, but of forming, with a lack of paper and cardboard supplies. but who are we kidding? the alarm has been sounded for over a decade and the list of shortages grows longer every year. if the laboratories have neglected the production of certain drugs that are not profitable enough, we must change suppliers, we must organize an alternative supply chain. we have had a report in parliament from my colleague colin-oesterlé in which an alternative was proposed, namely a kind of public-private establishment which manufactures precisely medicines that are not of interest to big pharma and which can produce precisely the medicines we need. it is therefore urgent that we act and make concrete proposals.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the serious shortage of commonly used medicines is a serious problem which cannot be put off any longer. from the experience of covid, it doesn't seem that we have shared choices to make and to make as soon as possible. since 1989 the then european community has been indicating the need for european intervention in price control policies. the european union must become the guarantor of research, production and the creation of strategic stocks, according to the five star movement. we can't depend on big pharma to make the choices we want. we are strengthening the ema's functions in terms of price control, programming and the definition of clear standards to which pharmaceutical companies must adhere by providing for penalties and rewards. we are creating a body governed by public law, with the participation of the central states, of all our states, a central purchasing body which will make framework agreements to guarantee a system of distribution of medicines which must be and must remain everywhere by unanimous consent a service of general interest.
a uachtaráin, over the past three years, the european union has overcome extraordinary obstacles in our fight against covid-19. unfortunately, this winter has again been exceptionally challenging for our hospitals. we are witnessing public health systems across the eu become overwhelmed and exhausted as a result of the recent surge of covid-19, flu and rsv patients. earlier this month, ireland reached record levels of overcrowding, and it is clear that we are at crisis point. consequently, the surge of respiratory infections has had an effect on our medical supplies. it is vital that we take action and that our supply of medical products are assessed to ensure access to medicines for all patients in need. i also highlight the importance of coordination at european level. what we have learned over the past years is that a public health problem affects the functioning of all european sectors. it is time for swift and immediate action.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the independence of third countries in the supply of medicines is a matter of first-class security. croatia, the country i come from, has been recording, in the last few weeks, just like we heard earlier, a jump in cases, so in the first few weeks of january, there were about 3,000 cases of influenza reported, but the system is really coping well so far, and there's no shortage of drugs. but right now, we have a triple pandemic, we can say: influenza, respiratory disease and, of course, the still-present covid. the phenomenon of drug shortages is not new, but of course, it's been exacerbated by the covid-19 pandemic and, of course, the war in ukraine. the situation has been very bad over the years in all countries and it has affected all kinds of medicines. the main reason, of course, is the globalization of drug production, where the different stages of production are distributed across multiple locations around the world, and as we know, china and india produce between 60 and 80 percent of the world's active pharmaceutical ingredients. this concentration of markets, of course, comes with risks that we must start managing urgently with a future perspective in mind. we have already called on this parliament on several occasions to establish a european pharmacy and a system for the redistribution of medicines in the event of shortages, and we need specific legislation.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is very important to discuss today this complicated situation, which is the emergence of several strains of respiratory diseases and influenza associated with covid and, at the same time, the shortage of certain types of medicines, which is becoming alarming for some countries. some of the solutions have been proposed for some time by the european parliament, which approved the report on the shortage of medicines, the identification of medicines considered strategic, a coordinated european initiative for the supply of medicines, the strengthening of conditionalities linked to public funding for research and development, to name just a few. but i think one of the priorities today is to push more and more with joint purchasing and the coordinating role of the european union, which has worked well for vaccines and which could also be used to address the shortcomings of these last few weeks and are crucial. it would be a grave mistake for europe not to build on what happened during the pandemic, drawing on the best practices and the successes we achieved during that difficult period.
mr president, commissioner, we need europe to be self-sufficient in the development and production of medicines and active substances. we're behind america and asia, and we're dependent on these locations. it is therefore essential that the production and development of medicines for europe take place primarily in europe. please prepare appropriate programmes to channel funds to strengthen pharmaceutical capacities in europe. and i ask you to do so with one specific task, among others: to develop a new antibiotic for europe. we should be aware that a shortage of medicines or a lack of antibiotic efficacy can have fatal consequences for a population. this is why investing in drug development and production is the top priority in europe. and of course, in addition to better access to medicines, they will also bring us a lot of skilled jobs.
member of the commission. i understand that this was your reflection on prices in poland, but i just want to say that the increase in food prices in poland is not one of the highest. we have a country where this increase in food prices is almost 50%. we have a group of countries where it's between 30 and 40 percent. in this group i would mention lithuania 34.7%, latvia 30.1% and estonia 29%. the countries with the highest rates are romania ( 22.6%) and slovakia ( 28.7%). in the case of poland, it is 22%, which is above the eu average, but it is not the absolute top of the european union. so if such recommendations were to be made - and they are not made, because it is not the role of the commission to make such recommendations - poland would certainly not be among the first countries to which such a recommendation should be made, because poland is not one of the countries with the highest inflation rate.
i have just received gestures from the house and i want to say again that we have 90 minutes for question time. we're looking at 18 possible questions, and that's how it spreads across the political groups. we'll probably have to tweak the procedure a little bit to make it more visible to you. i have now the speeches which i can take into account, and i am now joined by mr waitz, mr amaro, mr avram, mr sardone, mr ilčić, mr hazekamp, mr kelleher, mr markey, mr rondinelli, mr de castro, mr deparnay-grunenberg, mr hlaváček and mr mortler. we have a further overlap with mr lebreton and mr kuzmiuk, and they will speak if no one has any questions. then it might be a little more, then we'll fill up from the back. those who are not named now can decide whether to stay in the chamber or not.
mr president, commissioner, yes indeed, energy and energy inflation related to the ukraine war is the main driver of food prices. but there’s two more factors that are, let’s say, not put in the light as much as we need to. on the one hand, there’s the big food companies that have made use of the crisis already during the covid crisis, raising the prices of the foodstuff they are providing to the wholesalers in an illegitimate way. that even resulted to the very specific situation that big wholesale companies were threatening companies like mars or nestlé or unilever to delist their products because they were not accepting their raise in prices. do you have any further information on that, especially on the windfall profits this resulted to in these companies? and the second factor is speculation. we’re having speculation on food as commodities, and it’s not about the question whether there’s hedge contracts for fixed price production dealt on the market. but the question is whether we allow speculation on rising or lowering food prices, on grains, on pork meat and so on. is there any indication from your side now to actually give us research on how much speculation contributes to the food prices?
member of the commission. of course, as i said before, speculation cannot be ruled out. however, i want to make it clear that the rules of fair competition in the market in each member state are enforced by the competent authorities of those member states, the authorities responsible for competition and consumer protection. we have no strong signals that speculation is having a decisive effect on food prices. no, the price increase is absolutely a consequence and it corresponds to the scale of the problem of the russian aggression against ukraine, the cruel war and the economic consequences that must have contributed to the significant increase in costs and reflected on the prices of food products. as regards the operators who purchase agricultural products, the problem has been and is still that farmers are very often the weaker operator compared to the companies that purchase and process agricultural products. the situation varies from country to country. there are countries where farmers are better organized and have more market power. there are countries where there is still a lot to be done. the common agricultural policy includes instruments to strengthen the position of farmers in the supply chain. this is one of the priorities of the common agricultural policy. these instruments include strategic plans. we have the directive on combating unfair practices in the food trade, which was introduced by member states in 2019, adopted and implemented at the moment. much also depends on the effective implementation of this directive, which contains instruments to protect farmers from unfair treatment by market players who are more powerful than they are.
commissioner, if we provide you with concrete evidence and concrete information on actual speculation on foodstuff that happened the last two years, will you ask your authorities, your services, to actually do concrete research on it and provide us with data?
member of the commission. – such information we will very seriously consider.
you can also see that there are demands now. i beg your understanding. question time is a new instrument. it's been going on for a few months, but it's only coming from the focus groups. you have instructions on your desk. you can see if you're registered or not. the ones that leave, they just leave. we're trying to further optimize the process, so please understand.
member of the commission. i agree with the honourable member that the common agricultural policy, and indeed the entire community budget, are not prepared for such inflation. they're prepared for inflation, because there's a two percent valuation rate, but not for this huge crisis and the challenges that agriculture has faced - first covid, and now this terrible war unleashed by russia. this is a challenge that we really didn't have when the budget was passed. he was admitted in july 2020. there was covid, but there was no sign of this aggression and this terrible war. now, that is a problem because the honourable member was talking about these specific instruments. i'll say it again. everything possible on the part of the commission has been done to increase the food supply, because the price of food depends on it. the non-productive areas that farmers had to set aside were suspended for this year, as were the compulsory crop rotations for the previous and current year. all the instruments that had limited production in such a short period of time were suspended. we've used emergency reserves, we've taken market interventions, we've taken private storage during this crisis to remove all the barriers that are limiting food production and causing food prices to rise. i don't know what other instruments would be possible. the rest is a matter of budget, for example, increasing the funds for market intervention in crisis situations. 500 million euros is not a contingency reserve for such a large crisis. that's not an amount that can actually be effective and efficient. that is why i am speaking of the need to rethink the budget, which currently stands at 0.4% of eu gdp. the common agricultural policy is 0.4% of gdp for food security and ecological security, because farmers take on a lot of environmental and climate-related tasks.
member of the commission. i am sorry to confirm the figures you mentioned. romania does indeed have high inflation, although it is not one of the highest. there are a few countries where the increase in food prices is much higher than in romania. but in romania, the problem is that farmers' incomes have decreased. i was talking about a rate of increase of over 13% in agricultural income across the union, whereas in romania it is a negative rate - there has been a fall in farmers' income of over 21%, which is really worrying. these are very recent data, so we'll look at them at the eu level as well as at the national level. we're going to keep an eye on these phenomena because we may need to do something about them. nobody has brought this up in the discussion, but we have very visible problems in the countries neighboring ukraine, it's just that the economic consequences of this terrible war are affecting farmers in the countries neighboring ukraine more. this is a problem in poland, romania, of course, hungary and slovakia. for example, free trade, open trade with ukraine, which is very much needed and strongly supported by the european commission, has some negative consequences for farmers in these countries. it's the increased difficulty with their excess agricultural products. this is a problem that we're looking at very carefully right now. it may be a question of using the emergency reserve allocated to these countries. we're looking at all the options to make this better. i think that the situation in romania, which was the subject of the question, is also linked to this general situation. the war has had a particularly negative effect on the agriculture of the countries closest to us.
member of the commission. thank you for your question, madam. i can say that in italy, the situation is slightly better than the average in the european union, because the increase in food prices in the whole of the union is 18.3%, as i mentioned. in italy, however, it is 13.8%, well below the average. i cannot, of course, speak for all the areas in which the european union is active. as far as agriculture is concerned, i think the commission's recent decisions show that there is a reflection on making it easier for farmers to operate, not harder. i would just like to mention that the new common agricultural policy, the financial regulation for the financing of the common agricultural policy, contains very important provisions which will allow farmers to be exempted from being punished for minor, innocent or force majeure errors. there is a lot of room for not having this kind of repressive approach to farmers. the italian agriculture is an example of a well-functioning, well-connected agricultural sector, processing sector and local markets. there are many examples of this that can be recommended for other countries to use as well. but the cost increase has affected agriculture so badly that there is no country that is not affected. all countries have problems with inflation, and in all countries farmers have problems with production costs. however, in your country, your homeland, this problem is a little less common than the eu average.
mr president, mr commissioner, the market has its own clear principles of action which are difficult to stop by politics. if we have a surplus of a product, its price falls. if we have a shortfall, the price goes up. so the food price increases we're talking about are certainly the result of reduced food production, primarily in the european union, and that's because of high environmental standards, which are higher than anywhere else in the world. in addition, in the 17 days since we, in the opinion of the president of the european commission, successfully introduced the euro, food prices in croatia have risen by up to 20% and, according to studies presented to us in the committee on agriculture, food production in the european union will continue to decline, as will farmers' incomes, and we seem to be moving towards importing more and more food of questionable quality from third countries. i therefore ask you: will the commission work to ensure that food imported from third countries is subject to the same environmental standards as food produced in the european union?
member of the commission. mr president, of course, these equal standards, the equalization of standards, the application of the principle of reciprocity in trade with third countries is a constant point in all our negotiations, free trade agreements concluded with individual partners, for example, recently with new zealand. those rules shall be incorporated into those agreements. on the other hand, we must respect the rules of the world trade organization. it's not always that easy to implement. high union standards, if required of a member state and going beyond standards accepted in world trade, may be perceived in some situations as unjustified barriers to trade. and we don't want to have a situation where the union is accused of creating trade barriers because we have a very large trade surplus. so it is in the interest of the european union, of european farmers and producers, that trade is as open as possible, but we are absolutely taking that into account. you have indeed highlighted what is important the european union has the highest standards of food quality and safety, the highest standards of animal welfare, the highest environmental standards in the world. what's changing in the cap is that we're going to pay farmers more for these standards or we're going to pay farmers for something that farmers have done without any additional incentives, like animal welfare, which has been supported to a very minimal degree. and now there are actually instruments in both pillars of the cap to reward farmers who voluntarily raise these animal welfare standards. these good practices that ensure high quality and high safety of european food will also be rewarded. farmers will be rewarded for these practices.
dear commissioner, i know this is difficult and i respect any effort you make in this regard. however, unlike my colleague on the left, i do not see the long-term viability of the commission helping these or those when food grows. so, just to allow the conditions to be met that enough food is produced in the european union, that we are not tougher on our own people, but on those outside. so, my additional question: is domestic production a priority for you over the...
i would point out the following: when i had already turned off the tv, the interpretation came, saying: "isn't this a priority?" this is a question-and-answer session for good reasons, and we should really limit ourselves to questions. what i have just heard in the supplementary was an opinion, an argument. that's not what question time is for. if we have too many speeches, it is also a matter of respect for colleagues, firstly, not to overspend the speaking time, and secondly, to stick to the question.
the president, commissioner. food is a human right and we must ensure that everyone has access to healthy food. the commission's study shows that there is a risk that rising food prices will cause people to eat unhealthily. we must prevent that, of course. healthy and sustainable food should be the cheapest option. this can be done by abolishing vat on fruit and vegetables throughout the eu. how will the commission ensure that citizens in all countries have access to fruit and vegetables free of vat?
member of the commission. of course, this is one of the possible tools to improve food availability: tax incentives, the abolition or reduction of vat. i do not wish to speak or make statements on matters which are the responsibility of other members of the commission. i personally think that this is a good direction to reduce or remove taxes on food and improve the supply, especially for the poorest. that's why we have programs like fruit in school, and there are different ways to give food to charity. the commission supports this type of action.
member of the commission. thank you for this question about the 'field to table' strategy. of course, the strategy itself, as a policy document, did not require such an impact assessment to be made for the strategy as a whole, but for the individual legislative initiatives that are the implementation of the strategy, such impact assessment analyses are made. i thank you for bringing this strategy up, because it contains, among other things, a very large number of elements that support actions that shorten the journey from the field to the table. that road is very far away right now. because when we talk about food prices, it's worth thinking about how transportation affects that. only one third of the food, less than one third, is transported from the field to the table in less than 30 miles [50 km]. two-thirds of that is over 50 kilometers, and 7% of food is transported in the european union over 500 kilometers, so that also raises food costs. if we strengthen the short supply chain, the short path from the field to the table, we will also reduce costs, and that will be one of the factors that will lower food prices. therefore, the implementation of especially short direct sales supply chains is the action envisaged in the strategy. many countries have incorporated these actions into their strategic plans and there is considerable hope that if this is implemented, it will be a major factor in lowering food prices. the new common agricultural policy with elements of a 'field to table' strategy that shorten this journey from field to table.
member of the commission. thank you, mr. ambassador! of course, we rely on scientific evidence and analysis. i am, in all matters relating to the common agricultural policy, based on analyses, both directly agricultural but also economic. i am looking at the situation across the union and also, very importantly, at the differences between member states. one of the difficulties in managing the cap, in programming it, is that we have very different agriculture in different member states, different challenges and different problems. we have moved very strongly towards greater flexibility in the cap. we have national, i stress, national strategic plans. i think it will also allow the cap to be better adapted to the situation in each country and to be adapted in a way that is consistent with scientific evidence. i would like to take this opportunity to answer not only your question but also one of the previous ones - because the argument that we are restricting agricultural production is repeated all the time - and to say very clearly that there are no instruments in the common agricultural policy currently in force which deliberately restrict production. even if there were such instruments, it would be the obligation to set aside a certain part of the land, suspended, and crop rotation, crop rotation requirements that are necessary in the first place and that improve food security in the long run. when planning the crops for a particular year, they could have limited production in some way, but they were also suspended. today, no one will point to any instrument in the common agricultural policy that would directly reduce farmers' production. there is scope for increased production. of course, we have in mind that this production must be maintained not only today, but also tomorrow, and the day after, also for future generations. so sustainability in agriculture is a very important thing.
we’ve all seen from the last year just how vulnerable our food supply is and how vulnerable food security is and how it has impacted on so many people. well, i’ve listened to the figures you’ve given us here today where less than point 4% of gdp is spent on food production and only 500 million of a crisis reserve. well, if you divide that out by 10 million farmers, that’s less than eur 50 per farmer across europe. well, i have one question for you as the farmers’ representative within the commission: what are you doing to increase that budget? what are you doing to reduce them input costs? what are you doing to increase fertilizer supply? because clearly these are issues that are driving up the price of food across europe. and we want to know what the representative for agriculture is doing within the commission to address this situation.
a member of the commission. mr president, the fact that the current budget for the common agricultural policy, which we are implementing from 2021, is not €365 billion, as originally planned, but €387 (€22 billion more), is the result of an initiative that came from the commissioner for agriculture and i do not want to take any personal credit here, because that is not the point. it is perhaps the first time in the union's history that the budget finally adopted by the council on the commission's initiative has been so significantly higher than the initial amount. but i did mention it, and thank you for noticing. yeah, that's 0.4% of gdp. with the enormous challenges facing agriculture, and with the enormous crises that have hit agriculture, this is not going to provide us with food security in the long run. that's why i'm raising this issue very strongly. i've done this in various public forums before, and i think that's what i'm going to be doing. i cannot make a statement on behalf of the whole commission at this time because i do not have a mandate to do so. i can be held accountable for my actions at this point. yes, i will argue that the budget for the future cap should be significantly larger, and that this budget should include, above all, stronger crisis management instruments. farmers in crisis cannot be left to fend for themselves. we have crisis tools tailored to the normal situation that there's a crisis out there every once in a while and you have to intervene because something is happening in the wrong market, there's some kind of disruption. today, we are not dealing with disruption, but with a permanent burden on agriculture, a huge risk, both climatic and political. there's a war, but there was also covid before that, which hit agriculture very hard. we must have a common agricultural policy, if it is to remain common, we must have much stronger tools to respond at eu level in crisis situations and we must support farmers in such situations. and that will be my priority in working on some initial assumptions, because that's all the commission will be doing in this term. the next common policy will be designed by the next commission and the next commissioner, but i will be presenting the initial assumptions that will be aimed at strengthening the common agricultural policy, strengthening its budget.
mr president, commissioner, to quote your own words in relation to what are you doing in is, ‘i keep talking about it’. that’s the translation that came to me. surely the money you talk about – the 500 million crisis reserve fund – that is part of the existing budget. my question is, what additional money and what new efforts have been made? first with regard to providing additional money, but equally to ensure an increase in supply of fertilizer to drive more competition into the market and drive down prices, to generally reduce the costs of production and to ensure that, for those vulnerable people all across europe, we can provide cheap and affordable food.
member of the commission. thank you very much. i have already spoken - and we have had a debate in this chamber - about these actions in relation to the commission's communication on fertilisers. so, public aid for producers. we do not want to allow a situation to develop which at some point in the european union could have led to the complete cessation of fertiliser production, because the fertiliser companies were unable to continue production at such high energy and gas costs, or were forced to set prices that farmers could not afford. this communication addressed the situation in the fertiliser sector. he made public aid available to farmers. i know, you may have some critical remarks that public aid is not the solution, that it can also be harmful to the common market, create inequalities in this market. but in a crisis like this, there's no other option but to give the public a chance to help. therefore, public aid is possible for farmers who have borne the cost of, for example, fertilisers. member states may support their farmers up to eur 250 000 per farm. such assistance is acceptable. it's just that i'm worried that we have to let this happen. the common market should ideally be governed by common market mechanisms. not every country can afford this kind of aid, but to ensure food security, we have given it the opportunity. i would just like to remind you that the member states have a clear statement from the commission that if they want to change something in the strategic plan to strengthen the position of farmers using natural fertilisers, to make them less dependent on very expensive chemical fertilisers, we will very quickly make such changes in the strategic plans to give farmers that possibility and to enable the member states to finance such practices, which increase the independence of agriculture. these are the activities that we can offer today. and again, i say, it's a really big challenge to get 0.4% of gdp for our agriculture to provide food security and the highest environmental and climate standards in the world.
a member of the commission. i can only say that i personally do not need to be convinced that such a review is necessary, that the response to this inflation is needed from the perspective of the cap budget itself. but i must remind you that this budget was born in great pain and the common agricultural policy has been the subject of political criticism. a great many political circles and a large part of the public did not like the scale of the cap funding, let alone the scale of its increase. this is a political challenge. the budget for the common agricultural policy must be agreed by all the member states that is, the budget. this is not a matter which the commission can resolve by a single decision or initiative. this is a long political process that i personally want to initiate. and above all, we need to create awareness that empowering our farmers, creating sustainable perspectives, sustainable foundations for food security for the future, but also giving farmers the ability to meet those environmental expectations that are placed on them, that this requires a stronger budget, stronger crisis management instruments. we must convince those on whom this ultimately depends, namely the member states, their political circles and their citizens, the citizens of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you are well aware of the difficulties which the rise in food prices is causing for thousands of european families, and we are also well aware of the efforts you are making to try to deal with this complicated situation. so i want to give you a starting point for this battle that we all have to do, because inflation means problems for consumers, but it also means problems for the agro-food chain. well, you know, not long ago, last august, the biden administration passed the inflation reduction act, a major intervention tool of the american administration that put in place billions and billions of dollars, particularly measures that affect the agri-food sector in the united states and a $20 billion package just for the agriculture sector, with investments in sustainable production. so my question is: why, in the face of these difficulties, the russian invasion of ukraine, why does europe not respond as the united states has done?
a member of the commission. i thank mr de castro very much for this question, although it goes a little beyond what is in the scope of my mandate here today and in the area of agricultural affairs. of course, there are discussions in the commission on this. how do we respond to this challenge of the decisions made by the american administration? i would just like to remind you that the commission has launched, or otherwise created, a public aid framework. this is public aid in the economy in general, i'm not talking about agriculture right now, although agriculture is, can be covered by this aid as well. this is the data from the end of november, two months ago. this was the amount of aid related to the effects of the war: 450 billion euros. that's how much the member states spent on public assistance. they haven't yet, but that's the amount of public aid that's been approved, 90% of it going to the two largest economies, germany and france, which can also cause some problems. but i don't want to talk about it in this place right now. agriculture has benefited very little from this public support: less than 1% and may be covered by the aid. i was talking about the amount of eur 250 000 per farm. with the budget we have, public aid is not a good thing in the common market, but in a crisis situation much depends on the member states, on their decision, on their ability to do so.
a member of the commission. madam member, thank you for your question and i can only agree with you on all the facts you have given. it's true, organic farming has proven to be resilient, especially in the covid era. in fact, we've seen a rise in consumer interest in organic products during this crisis. we have a very comprehensive plan for organic farming and organic production. some countries are preparing their own national plans. so we're very strongly in favor of organic farming here. we have a plan for developing organic farming, a new regulation that has recently come into force and which also includes some facilitations, for example for group certification of such organic farms. and we have a common agricultural policy really with much stronger support instruments in both pillars. it used to be second-pillar support, but now it's possible in both the first and second pillars. i don't have the data at hand at the moment, but more money is being spent than ever on supporting organic farming. i have a strong belief that it will evolve. i agree with you. the development of organic farming is an alternative, above all, for many farms that have a choice: either to be organic or not to be farmers at all. and that is to increase food security. some say that organic production is less efficient and therefore does not improve food security. i don't share that opinion at all. organic farming is a way of enhancing food security. we are developing them and here member states have been given really very strong instruments, especially in the strategic plans. this applies to both pillars: direct payments, support for organic farms and the second pillar, as it has been the case until now.
member of the commission. i can say that i have personally been campaigning for organic farming to be included in the eco-schemes. these farms are being introduced to be independent of support for organic farms, to allow farmers to benefit from the eco-schemes, to maximise support under the second pillar. believe me, we have been negotiating very hard with all the member states, encouraging them to support organic farming as much as possible, to increase their ecological ambitions. i'm not sure that the target that we want to achieve of 25% of agricultural land in the european union under organic management by 2030 will be achieved. it's a big effort, and it's not just up to the farmers, but we're on track to do it. there's a lot of interest. it also depends on whether we can increase the demand for organic products through, for example, public procurement, priorities for public procurement. all of this is open to organic farming. there may be preferences for organic products. the catering establishments can only order organic products and this will be considered in line with the market rules, so there are really far-reaching preferences possible. i firmly believe that by 2027, when we sum up the cap, or even earlier, in the review, the positive effects and the strengthening of organic farming will already be visible.
mr president, commissioner, inflation is crushing europe and food prices are playing a major role. i suppose we don't want to have the same food inflation that we had this year, and that's why we need to act. we can't just have plans on paper, we have to translate them into reality. a study from the university of edinburgh last week confirmed to us that the fundamental problem is the price of fertilisers and the price of energy - the two main inputs. i know you've tried hard, but the strategy you've introduced is weak. i would like to support you and at the same time ask: can we please make a real step forward in addressing this issue? please, talk to commissioner simson, so we have a clear and predictable framework for the gas for fertilizer production! i would like to ask you to negotiate with commissioner timmermans so that we can make a clear and rapid transition to green sources of fertiliser production. and you can talk to commissioner kyriakides, so we can finally look at the margins... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, well, the report which we are discussing today contains a lot of interesting recommendations but has one problem: it is a long list of the various recommendation ideas, including those which we will be discussing years ahead, like qmv reform, and meanwhile there is a war in the ukraine, where we rightly support the ukraine against this terrible russian aggression but our deliveries are deadly slow. the storages are empty and we need to do much more and much faster. and therefore, instead of producing another hundreds of thousands of papers, we should do one thing: the same what fdr did for churchill, this lend and lease programme to allocate eur 50 billion into debt and to start delivering armaments of ukraine so that they would be able to win. but it requires the deeds, not the words. this is our problem, we have to work on the deeds.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! no country in the world has yet achieved gender equality. the setback in sexual and reproductive health is obvious. we note with concern the increase in violence by men against women. the most tragic example is afghanistan, which has implemented gender apartheid in a terrible way. women and girls are particularly vulnerable to sexual and gender-based violence. we know that rape of girls and women is cynically used as a weapon of war. this has to stop. it is time for the eu to mainstream gender equality in all its policies and to work systematically in multilateral and bilateral relations for global access to sexual and reproductive health and against men's violence against girls and women. women human rights defenders, activists and journalists face daily threats and hate online. conservative and backward forces are systematically working to undermine the rights of women and girls and take control of their lives. the progress made in our part of the world in the last few centuries on gender equality is under attack. we must have a europe on an equal footing with the eu.
madam president, commissioner, as a shadow rapporteur, i would like to raise a few points which are close to my heart and which deserve our utmost attention. this is mainly sexual and reproductive health. this right is a fundamental right and as such should be included in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. why would you do that? because in poland, several women have already died from the consequences of limited access to abortion. this cannot happen anywhere, let alone in the european union. i also appreciate that the final report contains clear support for the lgbtiq+ community in our country and around the world, and condemns violence and discrimination. in conclusion, however, i must say that some of the amendments seek to remove from the report any reference to the rights of women, which unfortunately continue to be trampled on in the world. the european union must set an example in the field of women's rights. only then will we achieve true equality and allow women to live free. the ratification of the istanbul convention, the fight against violence against women and the enshrinement of the right to sexual and reproductive health as a fundamental right are important steps in this regard, which we must work together to achieve.
for the ecr group. madam president, i would like to first express my sincere condolences to all the families who lost their loved ones due to the russian missile attack on the dnieper residential building. once again, it's clear that russia is not attacking military targets, but is killing civilians, spreading fear in an effort to trigger another wave of migration towards europe. for the same reason, ukraine is still facing intense bombing of its energy infrastructure. let us not be under the illusion that the russian call for peace is sincere. russia's only intention is to destroy ukraine and to terrorize the democratic world. we must continue our support both with military supplies of additional weapons and financial assistance. it's the only way to keep russia and help ukraine.
madam president, bucha, irpin, dnipro - these are the most famous cases of atrocities committed by russia in ukraine. they're the most famous, but they're definitely not the only ones. the cases of russian military terrorizing and killing civilians are far more numerous. these atrocities must not go unpunished. we must establish as soon as possible an international criminal tribunal to investigate and prosecute the crimes of aggression against ukraine and bring the perpetrators to justice. certainly, putin, shoigu, lavrov and other senior russian officials should be brought before this tribunal, but also vladimir putin's allies, belarusian president lukashenko or representatives of the iranian regime. that is, all those involved in the planning, preparation and leadership of the invasion of ukraine.
for the verts/ale group. madam speaker, ladies and gentlemen, not all politicians are corrupt. it's not normal to take bribes. it's not normal to go on unannounced paid missions that resemble a vacation. and it's certainly not normal for prime ministers to steal public funds. this is what we have been working on with pirates for many years, and that is why we also hope for a better czech republic and a better europe. the protection of europe's financial interests is also the protection of national budgets. olaf investigates hundreds of cases of fraud and corruption every year, but only 35% of these cases end up in court because there is simply no political will in the member states to tackle them. however, thanks to the new european public prosecutor's office, we are now finally able to recover a significant amount of stolen funds without having to deal with lengthy national proceedings. in the first six months of the authority's operation, some eur 147 million was recovered. so for every euro we invest in running it, we get about four euros back. it is no surprise that the governments of countries like poland or hungary continue to refuse to cooperate on this instrument, probably because they have a lot to hide themselves. finally, we need stronger measures to protect public institutions from corruption. the scandal that hit the european parliament last month is another example of the need for greater transparency and stronger protection for whistleblowers. and to help me do that, my colleagues and i are working on the creation of a common ethics body for the european union institutions.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, the problem is quite clear: the current blockade of nagorno-karabakh leads to many people being left without the basic needs, causing a severe medical situation, risking starvation and endangering any agreed commitments. whatever the reasons for the blockade, no protests should deny nagorno-karabakh residents their access to freedom of movement and necessary goods. moreover, in line with its commitments, it is azerbaijan’s responsibility to ensure that the lachin corridor strategic road remains open, whether genuine environmental concerns exist. i insist that azerbaijan refrains from undermining the corridors functioning and allows for the unhindered movement of goods and civilians. and i urge both countries that only continuous peaceful dialogue without sabotaging can lead to consistent peace.
mr president, the european council will also address illegal migration, which has picked up again in the past year, at its next meeting. in our country, the czech republic, but also in neighbouring austria, slovakia, hungary, the number of migrants caught crossing the border illegally has increased by hundreds of percent year on year. the czech republic responded by increasing the number of checks at the czech-slovak border, which worked and are now being terminated. at the same time, the czech presidency has managed to achieve the unification of visa requirements with the western balkan countries, which will limit the arrival of migrants by this route. there is therefore a clear need for further discussion on the protection of the external border and on cooperation with source countries. and here i am talking about the need to make our development aid and cooperation conditional on cooperation on migration. i also hope that the debate on mandatory quotas for the redistribution of refugees is over, because it turns out that the countries that have long protested against this system have now taken in far more refugees in ukraine as a result of russian aggression than other countries have in the past.
madam president, dear colleagues, i am an unapologetic fan of eu enlargement, which is why i welcome presidents zelinskyy’s commitment to reforms – changing legal, social and political reality to align with our european acquis, even during wartime. i have high hopes for the upcoming summit to bring ukraine even closer to the eu family. in the european family, they already are. furthermore, the summit must convey strength and commitment also from the eu – in political, economic and military assistance. but it must also reinforce its humanitarian support, especially on the issue of forced filtration of people in russian-occupied territories and deportation to the far east, as well as forced re-adoption of children into russian families. the summit also brings an opportunity to discuss all necessary instruments to try russia for all the committed crimes, which is a must for the international order.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear colleagues and dear georgians who are listening, there are far too many challenges ahead of georgia. the commission will be now evaluating the 12-point recommendations and how the georgian authorities were able to fulfil them. at the end of the road, there might even be a candidate status waiting for them. yet we already know that there are some persisting issues, although we all appreciate attempts at legislation tackling oligarchisation. we also hear varying messages from georgian authorities regarding which persons in the country will be affected by the legislation and which thus suggest that the legislation won’t really solve the problem. another issue is, of course, polarisation of the political spectrum and consequently society. i have no signals of improvement, maybe even on the contrary – the longer there is infighting, the more it’s being fuelled by various disinformation and manipulation. why am i talking about it now? because these are the challenges all of us in this house want to focus on and want to keep focusing on. however, the case of mikheil saakashvili is so overwhelming that we cannot look away. it represents everything we are talking about when we talk about problems and reforms, mistrust in judiciary, polarisation, disinformation. there is no big conspiracy such as that we are being paid by the unm, or coerced by saakashvili – yes, i have heard that. that is nonsense. we care because we have to care, because there is a highly politicised case and the person is dying in prison. so i urge the georgian authorities: keep in mind not only the political points you can gain by keeping him in prison, but also the points you are losing, because we have to have a debate today about a political prisoner instead of, for instance, the candidate status.
madam president and colleagues, i want to bring to your attention the situation in moldova. moldovan president maia sandu just revealed that the ukrainian intelligence services intercepted a document clearly showing russia’s plan for a coup d’état in moldova. putin has an apparent goal to forcefully change the legitimate power from chișinău to an illegitimate one, while also destroying moldova’s european aspirations. three days ago, the moldovan pro-european prime minister stepped down, also creating a turmoil which russia can potentially use to destabilise our partner to whom we granted candidate status just a few months ago. madam president, on behalf of the greens/efa group, i would thus urge you to issue a statement of support to moldova on its european path.
madam president, what we have here is probably one of the most stupid solutions we've discussed in this period. nothing against electric cars. they have a purpose in the cities. they're expensive, but the golden youth loves them. they're accelerating like a cheetah. but betting on one solution creates a monopoly. and monopoly is always against prosperity and freedom. we're embezzling the middle class, we're multiplying the ranks of the unemployed, we're restricting people's freedom, and we're playing china, which is way ahead in this -- both in batteries and in software. there's a problem connecting to the internet in bavaria on the highway. i shall therefore vote against it, also in the hope that we will give technological neutrality a chance, that we will give the development of synthetic fuels a chance, and thus give a chance to competition, which is the only way to guarantee innovation and preserve human freedom. (the speaker agreed to answer the floor by raising the blue card.)
blue-card answer. – no, no, no, we ask for the inclusion of the synthetic fuels and others and it was not accepted, only in the recital and in the recital it’s not legally binding, it’s just a proclamation to appease one party in the german coalition. but we wanted the inclusion of the technological neutrality, including the synthetic force, into the legislation, it was not accepted and then we had a promise that euro 7 would be light in exchange and it is hard.
madam president, madam commissioner, dear colleagues, today is valentine’s day, the day of love. too many women have been forced to learn that love is control, that love is jealousy, that love is to having to text your whereabouts, that love is an imminent threat. unfortunately, there are political parties and politicians – including in my country, czechia – that on the one hand claim that they are against violence against women but on the other hand have been delaying, weakening and stopping measures that should give women the protection they need. as a matter of fact, every third woman in czechia and in the eu experiences physical or sexual violence, often by their partners. as a matter of fact, the istanbul convention is a complex list of solutions to eradicate violence, to enhance prevention, to strengthen law enforcement. it is a tool to upgrade the safety net for victims of violence, meaning medical centres, psychological support, shelters for victims and so on. we need to act. i call on the council and the member states who have not done so yet to ratify the convention , immediately. act for a future in which violence against women has no place in our society. thank you, and i hope that someone can pass on the message to the council that is not present.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i have read countless testimonies of men's violence against women, mothers brutally murdered by the fathers of their children, and children orphaned by this. jonathan expressed that he wanted a ladder to heaven so he could see his mother again. women and children living in hiding, unable to live a free life because of psychological and economic violence. a violation of human rights. one of our most pervasive social problems. and here the istanbul convention is a very important instrument and it should be obvious that the eu and all the member states ratify this convention. i have very high expectations that the swedish presidency will now press for ratification by all. the immediate end to violence by men against women requires political will, action and the prioritization of women's human rights.
blue-card speech. – madam president, the netherlands, as you mentioned, was one of the first countries which ratified the istanbul convention in 2014, if i’m not mistaken. so it's nine years that the istanbul convention is ratified and implemented in the netherlands. and now you are speaking about the increase of violence. so can you tell me if you care about effectiveness, if you care about the results or just the papers? now you want that poland, hungary and other countries ratify the same convention, which didn't decrease the violence in your country, but increased it. where is the logic in it ? please, tell me.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i find it frankly unacceptable that this house is constantly trying to use every conceivable and possible subject to impose the lgbt agenda on europeans by means of subterfuge, by secretly inserting it between the lines of every document that comes into our hands. the aim today is to exploit a serious and sacred issue such as the fight against violence against women to turn an important convention such as the one in istanbul into a masked ddl zan, distorting its nature to assert gender ideology as an indispensable principle, imposing its dissemination in schools, censoring any dissenting opinion, accusing conservative political forces of homophobia, overstepping legitimate national sovereignty to oblige states to align themselves with those dictates. but we all know the consequences of this: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the european social model, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the commission in this endeavour. (the speaker agrees to reply to a 'blue card' intervention)
the answer is "blue card". i don't think there's much to answer for. you allowed a colleague to have one more rally without any real questions to be asked, especially by going completely off-topic. she even talked about immigrants, a subject that was not a topic and that was not touched at all, so i don't know, i mean, thank you for doing this another rally, but i have nothing to answer honestly.
madam president, dear colleagues, the need to take action against any kind of violence against women is beyond dispute. there’s no debate about that. today's debate, and the debate about the istanbul convention, however, is really not about this. it’s about instrumentalising the fight against violence to push a radically left-wing political agenda. it’s about imposing the concept of gender on member states and forcing, for instance, the absurd idea that it is a human choice to be a man or a woman instead of a biological fact. the reality is that the istanbul convention, as an international agreement, has spectacularly failed. it has failed because more than half a dozen member states rejected certification exactly because of its radical ideological content. and still the european parliament and others fail to accept the sovereign decision of these member states. and, unbelievably, they now want to force the convention on them by pushing the eu’s accession above their heads. that is unacceptable. the european union cannot make decisions against the explicit will of several of its own member states.
madam president! it's a shame that so many communities turn a blind eye to violence against women. it is a shame that so many member states are failing to address this issue, and that police, prosecutors and courts are often ignoring the problem, showing not only a lack of empathy but also a lack of knowledge of the laws that are supposed to protect women from perpetrators. and maybe when we realize that the perpetrators of most acts of domestic violence are not men from the margins, but men who enjoy the unblemished reputation of their community, often politicians, ceos, doctors, judges, police officers, then maybe we can understand why we are in this place, why it is so difficult to fight violence, and why so many are against ratifying the convention. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, but first of all the ngos in poland, in my country, and also in europe, who are raising awareness, educating and fighting violence. and i hope that the european parliament, that all of us who sit in this chamber, will send a strong signal: zero tolerance for perpetrators of violence.
madam chairman, commissioner, half of our society cannot live without fear. they're women, and they can be attacked. in the european union, some 600 women are killed each year by their partner or a relative. one in three women have experienced sexual violence. one in 20 was raped. nearly half of women have experienced psychological violence by their partners. and these numbers are not going down. the cost of addressing gender-based violence is €366 billion per year. and almost 80 percent of that is women's aid. the istanbul convention provides a comprehensive framework for the prevention, protection of victims and prosecution of perpetrators. it recognises gender-based violence as a human rights violation, as a systemic problem that requires a coordinated response from all parts of society. when we see abuse of a dog or any other animal, we do it right, it's not acceptable to us. when we witness violence against someone, we often pretend that we don't see it, that it doesn't concern us, that it's just a private matter. i can tell you from personal experience that violence really isn't a private matter. it is our common responsibility and our common interest. let's ratify the istanbul convention in the european union.
mr president, in the european parliament i often speak about how to be transparent, how to fight fraud and corruption and how to protect whistleblowers. but instead of doing what parliament should be doing, it does not do much. our colleagues here are making headlines with a massive corruption scandal, and we're not allowing our own anti-fraud office to investigate the accused meps. we don't disclose, at least not all of them, how and what office supplies are used for, and we don't protect our own employees when they point out any wrongdoing. this has to change. we have good ethical rules, but no one actually follows them because no one controls their adherence. so these are all reasons why we need an independent ethics body to ensure that we consistently uphold the fundamental rules of the game across all european institutions. and the fact is that the european parliament has been talking about establishing an ethics body since about the time i was elected as an mep, but that was four years ago, so it's time to finally deliver on the promises we made to our constituents.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, it is right to have a debate in this parliament with an agreement with the council based on the proposal of the european commission, which certainly has to help tackle those transitions that the european economy is facing: the digital transition and the green transition. it also has to meet the need for long-term investment; europe is still under-invested to meet the challenges ahead and private investment is certainly needed to tackle that path. my group had some doubts about the proposal and some amendments during the negotiation process, because, while we certainly share the objective of channelling savers' investment into long-term projects, we did not want this text, this reform, to involve deregulation by the back door or to reduce the controls, the requirements, which we have to discuss on these or other products and which are on the table in the context of the capital markets union. there have certainly been attempts to reduce regulation, to reduce the protection of retail consumers. however, as i said, i think the final text is balanced and provides adequate protection primarily for retail investors who choose to channel their savings into these products. my group is also pleased to have extended control over those countries where these products can be invested, not only to include the countries on the european union's blacklist in the fight against money laundering, but also to those countries in annex 1 of non-cooperative jurisdictions. i think it is a good step which also helps in the fight against money laundering and illegal tax behaviour by third jurisdictions. and, of course, perhaps the weakest part of the text has been the chapter on sustainability, which we hope and trust will be strengthened in that future revision, if we really want this instrument to be useful in moving forward in the green transition as well.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, madam commissioner. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, my colleagues and the czech presidency for their constructive work on this eltif regulation. the updated regulation takes us one step closer to having genuine capital markets in europe, and it actually removes a number of hurdles that, until now, had made it quite difficult for existing funds to grow and to be offered to investors. specifically, it will help our citizens to channel their savings – and this is one of the key goals that we were trying to achieve – into more secure long-term investments with opportunities for higher returns than traditional savings accounts. it does this by encouraging fund managers and citizens to invest in creating and buying into long—term funds. on the other hand, we are strengthening consumer protection with the suitability test for investors by leaving them the final decision on investing or not. there will be a lower minimum investment for consumers, which is a very important addition, allowing more retail investors to invest in relatively stable types of funds. we have also agreed to loosen the fund management rules to encourage more european long-term investment funds to be created. this will help investment managers to offer a wider range of options for investors, including investments in digital and green transition projects. the goal is to feed long-term capital into our economy for productive purposes. with a well-designed framework for investments in capital markets, as well as increased financial literacy, we are able to further support investments in long-term projects, and particularly in growing smes in this tough economic environment. i believe that the framework that we have agreed on for eltif will bring positive effects to europe’s capital markets, and i will fully support it and so will our group.
mr. chairman, one year after the russian invasion of ukraine, information is emerging about a new russian offensive being planned. we've heard about what's going on in moldova. putin is willing to do anything to achieve even a small hint of victory and be able to explain to the russians why tens of thousands of ordinary people had to die. we recently heard the statement of the leader of wagner's group prigozhin that he has a plan to reach the english channel. if these words don't get us to increase our military aid to ukraine, i don't know what will. the czech republic has already provided ukraine with a huge amount of military equipment and we will continue to help in any way we can. on the other hand, we read the views of some countries, such as switzerland, which not only refuse to help ukraine, but actively block the help of other countries. such conduct must also be rejected out loud. as well as condemning those who are willing to sacrifice our safety for a few euros or francs.
mr. chairman, we're making one mistake after another. four years after the green deal, the commission is coming up with an industrial plan. you should have come four years ago, hand in hand with this. that's the way it is with industry here. secondly. we set up cbam without consulting the americans, and now we're surprised to have iru on the table. instead of pre-mixing it together. what do we propose now? to contribute to the death? we don't have the money. go into debt to death? we don't have the money. or a trade war with the united states? which means decapitating our main partner at a time when we need him in the face of chinese and russian aggression. or what? get our heads together, get things moving forward, not just lagging behind, threatening either war or misery or both.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, arrested, imprisoned and poisoned for his political activism and yet he returns to russia and continues to fight for what he believes in, risking his own life. aleksei navalny and all political prisoners are the visible symbol for the millions of russians who want a better future for themselves and for their country. this symbol grows every day, and as a paranoid 70—year—old tries to violently break russia away from europe and bind it with the dictatorships in the east. europe is with navalny and all the dreamers and believers in a free and democratic russia. colleagues, let us help those who want to show to putin that they will not be intimidated or silenced and that every dictator needs at one point to learn that you cannot silence ideals. and, dear aleksei, i hope the guards play beethoven’s ode to joy next time during mealtimes as a punishment too.
for the greens/efa group commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i come from a bicycle country: i was born in roubaix, france, which means that i was destined to do great things for the bicycle. so, you all know paris-roubaix, its cobbles, as you also know the tour de france, the tour of flanders, the tour of lombardy, and so on. cycling is a hugely popular sport in europe, but it is also a means of transport. the facts need to be established: an electric bicycle, for example, is the most reliable means of transport for a distance of 1 to 10 kilometres. and it's reliability that's important to arrive on time with confidence, avoiding congestion, while still going at efficient speeds. bicycles have also proved to be an indispensable means of transport during covid-19, to the point that they have even been referred to as "coronavirus rescuers", when public transport was at high risk. the bicycle is popular, and manufacturers are having a hard time meeting the demand for bicycles. and yet, they remain undervalued, abused by political power, abused by public authorities, and this despite the growing demand from the population. so here - this is historic - in the european parliament we have the solution: we want a european cycling strategy. she'll be here and she'll be adopted in a few hours. it was produced by the committee i chair, the committee on transport and tourism, by the unanimity of the political groups, by the unanimity of this far-sighted committee. yes, it is time to send a very clear message: we absolutely must double the use of bicycles by 2030. how can you do that? by deploying safe infrastructure: there are still too many risks to ride a bike to work, to drop your children off at school or to let them go to school on their own. intermodality with public transport, particularly with the train, needs to be increased. we need secure parking in railway stations, with charging stations and more bicycle spaces on trains. the bicycle must be affordable; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. the social climate fund must be able to help those who cannot travel or pay for a bicycle. finally, i say loud and clear in this house: it is time to have 'made in europe' bicycles. it is a real will, an industrial challenge. currently, the cycling ecosystem represents 1 million jobs. if we adopt a smart industrial strategy, by 2030 2 million jobs will be at stake. everything is to be done; so we'll be here at the rendezvous. we are ready to work with you to give cycling its rightful place. we therefore ask you to put this interinstitutional declaration on cycling into effect as soon as possible. because cycling is good for employment, it's good for the climate, it's good for health, but it's especially good for purchasing power.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. what the hell are they doing in brussels? don't you have more important things to do? the development of an eu cycling strategy to double cycling? it sounds fun, but it's about eu interference, with building codes, municipal budgets and democratic decision-making processes. it would be laughable if it did not go so far as to violate the principle of subsidiarity. because it says that what can be regulated at local level must also be regulated at local level. and you can. without the eu's intervention, we have developed a wonderful bicycle infrastructure in the netherlands. it can be done anywhere in europe. there's enough funds. if this proposal is adopted, it will mean that, for example, forced from brussels local cycle paths and bicycle racks will have to be designed and built and secured, when there is actually a need for childcare. money can only be spent once. it is a good democratic principle that citizens in their own town or city decide what is spent. i hope that brussels will not interfere in this.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for this interesting debate. i have taken note of all your comments and i will pass them on to my colleagues executive vice-president timmermans and, of course, commissioners vălean and breton. as i stated in my introduction, the commission acknowledges that cycling is important in the context of reaching the objectives of co2 reduction and fuel savings, as highlighted already under the european green deal, sustainable and smart mobility strategy, ‘fit for 55’ package and repowereu. the new eu urban mobility framework already establishes an excellent basis to further develop cycling in the european union and the recently launched expert group will build on this and will develop relevant recommendations. it is very clear that cycling is and will become an even more important mobility mode in the future, offering a cheaper, cleaner and healthier means of transport. it also represents an important industry for europe, as was said by many, that we need to support in its growth. about 85 % of e-bikes, for example, sold in europe are produced in europe. however, there is an issue of supply chains because all the raw materials most mostly come from elsewhere, so the cycling industry faces similar challenges as the car industry in europe. anyway, the commission looks forward to continuing the dialogue with you on how to better support cycling and active mobility.
i have received a motion for a resolution to wind up this debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. written declarations (rule 171)
the next item is the statement by the commission on the further repression of the people of belarus, in particular the cases of andrzej poczobut and ales bialiatski.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i wish to thank the parliament for the opportunity to discuss again the dire situation in belarus. unfortunately, the repression continues to intensify. there are now more than 1 450 political prisoners, a number that increases by the day. recent legislation allows for depriving citizens living abroad of their citizenship. trials in absentia have started against members of the coordination council. harsh and politically motivated verdicts have recently been pronounced, such as against andrzej poczobut, a journalist and deputy chairman of the union of poles in belarus, who was sentenced on 8 february to eight years of imprisonment in a hard labour penal colony. ales bialiatski, founder of the organisation viasna, in prison since 2020, is now on trial, and he risks between 9 and 12 years of prison. his verdict is expected soon. he has devoted his life to the promotion of democracy and human rights in belarus, efforts that were recognised by the 2022 nobel peace prize. as the high representative borrell recalled on that occasion, i quote, ‘the attribution of the nobel peace prize to human rights defenders is a sign of hope and light amidst the darkness of internal repression in russia and belarus and russia’s illegal war of aggression against ukraine.’ end of quote. the european union will continue to stand up for the respect of human rights in belarus. in the international fora, the european union has led three successful resolutions in the un human rights council to report on the situation in belarus and establish a robust accountability mechanism under the office of the high commissioner for human rights. we have raised the issue in a real format in the united nations security council, in the organisation for security and cooperation in europe and in the council of europe. we support, both politically and financially, the international accountability platform for belarus that collects evidence of the crimes with a view to holding the perpetrators accountable. the european union has reacted firmly to the illegal actions of lukashenko’s regime by imposing robust sanctions on belarus, as a response to the violations of human rights and international norms and, as well, as a response to belarus’s support to russia’s war of aggression. at the same time, we have provided strong support to the people of belarus, with over eur 100 million earmarked for this purpose. the attachment to freedom and democracy shown by the people of belarus is a source of great inspiration for us. it is our duty to continue supporting them and their quest for rights, rule of law, free and fair elections and true independence.
on behalf of the ppe group - the head of the house! - what? my fellow citizens! in 2020, after a loss of power, lukashenko maintained his grip on power through violence and repression. the repression continues, and more than 1,500 political prisoners are now in prison. however, since the russian invasion of ukraine, the lukashenka regime has also threatened the security of neighbours and europe, as the russian occupation army has used the territory and infrastructure of belarus. in taking on and acting in this capacity, he has therefore actively supported actions and policies which undermine the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of ukraine, and further destabilised ukraine. the european parliament has recognised russia as a state sponsor of terrorism. by supporting russian aggression, belarus is in effect also sponsoring terrorism. as we work to hold putin and his henchmen accountable legally, politically, financially and morally for the atrocities it has committed, lukashenko must be right up there with them. all financial and economic sanctions targeting russia must also target belarus. the political and diplomatic isolation of russia must also extend to belarus. all investigations and cases against russia in international courts and tribunals must also address the role of belarus. we cannot allow any loopholes, any grey zone, because there is no daylight between putin and lukashenko. the death of belarus! glory to ukraine!
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, i’m holding back my anger. we should be debating free belarus’s european future today. but we can’t because belarus isn’t free yet. putin’s lapdog is still throwing the country’s very best people in jail, people like my friend ales bialiatski, an absolute beacon of human rights. he should be released immediately. but the question is: are we doing enough? here are my concerns. one: i didn’t hear the word ‘belarus’ in yesterday’s sanctions announcement, not even once. so let it be clear: putin’s sidekick must be subject to the same crushing sanctions as russia, like my colleague also said. second point: the hungarian foreign minister’s little minsk trip this week was beyond outrageous. you simply do not discuss peace, whatever orban thinks that means, with the illegitimate accessory to putin’s terrorism. it is not hard: support democrats, not dictators. free ales. zhyve belarus!
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, lukashenko’s belarus is a textbook dictatorship – dissidents are enemies of the state, they must be destroyed, otherwise their independent and critical voice will become a threat to the monopoly of power. lukashenko’s courts have set out to imprison the head of the viasna human rights centre and nobel peace prize winner, ales bialiatski, and his deputy, valiantsin stefanovic, for 12 years each, and the journalist andrzej poczobut for eight years. looks like ten years behind bars is lukashenko’s standard answer to his opponents. there are currently around 1 440 political prisoners in belarus. next week will mark 1 000 days that belarusian social democratic leader mikalai statkevich has been held in prison under extremely difficult conditions. in the same week, hungarian foreign minister péter szijjártó visits minsk. i wonder whether he will demand the release of political prisoners. perhaps minister szijjártó could react to this question? i call on the eu and the western coalition to put pressure on the dictator lukashenko by united means and to avoid the mistakes of the past. zhyve belarus!
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. you guys! thank you very much for this debate in the european parliament. we celebrate in our hearts, in our actions one year since the terrible invasion of the russian federation into ukraine. at the same time, the repression of the lukashenka regime against its own peaceful society is also increasing. andrzej poczobut, an activist of unprecedented personality, a prominent journalist, recently ill, has been sentenced, after 650 days in prison, to a harsh colony of increased rigor. aleś białacki nobel peace prize winner, a person who is a symbol for all of us, also among all the oppositionists, the sakharov prize winner in his last word in his ongoing trial spoke about the need for reconciliation of society. the belarusian people love peace, freedom and democracy. this is no time to negotiate with lukashenko. we need to tighten sanctions.
mr president, dear colleagues, since lukashenko has installed himself in power again in 2020, we voted for six resolutions related to belarus and its systemic repression of any opposition. that is quite an unprecedented number, let me say. our attention to the people of belarus is unwavering in this house. but it also shows that our hard power is obviously not sufficiently used. are the sanctions truly targeting those responsible and are there? or is belarus perceived by member states just as the some bothersome buzzing fly on the problem called putin? i am proud of our commitment and our debates, and i am grateful we can today voice our support to ales bialiatski and andrzej poczobut. but i don’t see the same determination on the side of our colleagues in council and commission. why wasn’t, in the proposal, named belarus and its people? let me first remind you, you wield the power to deal with lukashenko. you just need to decide it matters.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, this debate demonstrates that there is really strong support of this parliament for the european union’s strong reaction against the systematic human rights violations in belarus. i am grateful for this support. many of you mentioned sanctions, so let me update you on where we stand. there have been six rounds of sanctions against belarus. they include: an embargo on arms and related material; a ban on exports of equipment for internal repression; an asset freeze and travel ban targeting 195 individuals and 35 entities, plus an additional 42 high—ranking military and other personnel from belarus for their involvement in, or facilitation of, the russian invasion on ukraine. there is also a ban on overflight, take—off and landing for belarusian aircraft, and there are sectoral measures restricting trade and financial services. work is currently ongoing to ensure alignment between the russia and belarus sanctions regimes. the commission is also working on adopting more sanctions in the context of human rights violations – sanctions that would target primarily judges and prosecutors. in the event of further belarus involvement in the war, further areas of sanctions will be explored. this debate also demonstrated that we need to continue our strong support to the people of belarus in light of the ever—worsening repression of lukashenko’s regime against the belarus population. we will continue to call for the immediate and unconditional release and rehabilitation of all political prisoners and for the cessation of repression. the authorities of belarus must engage in a genuine and inclusive dialogue with all elements of society, leading to free and fair elections under international observation and in accordance with international standards. we will continue to stand by the people of belarus.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session.
i have an announcement to make. the political group of the european conservatives and reformists informed the president about decisions on changes in committee appointments. these decisions will be referred to in the minutes of today's meeting and will take effect from the date of this communication.
the next item is the oral question to the commission on the availability of fertilisers in the eu by mr norbert lins (o-000001/2023 - b9-0010/23), on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on availability of fertilisers in the eu by norbert lins on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development (o-0001/2023 – b9-0010/23).
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think that the situation we have just experienced - that we have some colleagues here who are already here - welcome, and the commissioner is also here - shows just a little bit the situation we are in with regard to food security and food supply, not just in europe but with regard to our situation worldwide. i think we're sleepwalking into a disaster right now and somehow not noticing it or not taking it really seriously or at least not as seriously as the situation actually requires at the moment. commissioner, i saw the new figures from the world food organisation yesterday again. i was in a meeting with the chief economist of the world food organisation and i have to say: we cannot in any way give a warning on the subject of food security: 839 million people in the world are hungry or do not have enough to eat. the figures for last year have worsened once again. the number of people who do not have enough calories has increased again compared to the situation a year ago. so i think we need to act in many places. i think it is not the time for the sceptics, but it is definitely the time for us to act and not just react. and i think we need to react quickly in a number of places. this applies to the situation of our farmers, particularly in the border regions with ukraine, to our polish farmers, to romanian farmers, to hungarian, slovak and also bulgarian farmers. i think we need to help them quickly. and, commissioner, i thank you for your suggestions, but they must be implemented soon so that there is compensation for the situations created by the recent disturbances. and then there is also a great deal of need for action in the field of fertilisers; the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i am optimistic that we will pass this with a good majority. i think your communication is pointing in the right direction, but i think that there are still some decisions to be made at crucial points. for example, why do we need or why do we still have anti-dumping duties in the current situation, when fertiliser prices are still high, sometimes very, very high in some regions of europe? why are we not moving towards greater independence from fertilisers - i am referring in particular to the better use of organic fertilisers? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think we must recognize that organic fertilisers and the animal husbandry that underlies them are one of the solutions we must find, one that we must overcome in order to become more independent of chemical-synthetic mineral fertilisers. and there are actually some decisions on the table. it is clear that we must and can meet them now in order to use less mineral fertilisers in the future, to use more organic fertilisers and to distribute them better within the european union where they are needed. that is why, in my view, something must happen very quickly in the area of renure and in the area of anti-dumping duties, in the area of compensation, especially for the farmers who are now exposed to the disruptions. i believe that these are the very important, necessary decisions that must come soon. and we must think about how we will position ourselves for 2024 and 2025, commissioner. i believe that we cannot afford to make larger cuts in the area in 2024 and 2025, to have too restrictive regulations than the european union, but we must see that we at least maintain our production in order to be able to make our contribution as the basis of the world's food supply.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, thank you for initiating this very important debate today. i share your view that the issue of fertilisers needs our full attention. i will address your questions straight away in the order in which they were submitted. first, you asked what further measures the commission is planning to take to open up international fertiliser markets and to ensure the availability of fertilisers. as for the current market situation, despite a decline in recent months, fertiliser prices are still historically very high, which may lead to a lower use in 2023. the commission communication in november outlined several measures to ensure the continued availability of fertilisers, including financial support to farmers and the fertiliser industry. for example, the temporary crisis framework for state aid enables member states to provide such support. but not all member states have taken this option. just over eur 917 million was spent by four member states to set up specific schemes for the purchase of fertilisers. this is poland with a budget of eur 836 million, greece with eur 60 million, slovenia with eur 15 million and malta with eur 6.5 million. also, spain has recently allocated eur 300 million for state aid to compensate farmers for the increased costs of fertilisers as a decision under a national generic state aid scheme open to all sectors and approved under the temporary crisis framework. in relation to fertiliser markets, let me also remind you, in december of last year, the council adopted the decision to remove tariffs for non-russian and non-belorussian urea and ammonia until june 2023. furthermore, the market observatory for fertilisers will be launched this year to share improved data on production, use, prices and trade. so, to conclude on this question, there are a number of measures which are either being implemented, soon to be implemented or open to implementation by member states. for these reasons, the commission does not foresee additional measures at this moment in time. however, we will continue to closely monitor the situation. turning now to your second question. how does the commission intend to pursue long-term eu self-sufficiency in fertilisers? firstly, it is essential to ensure viable and sustainable production based in the eu. the commission underlines the need to rapidly develop a market for renewable, low-carbon and fossil-free hydrogen-based fertilisers produced in the eu, such as, for example, green ammonia and organic fertilisers recycled from waste streams. this is crucial to reduce the dependency of our fertiliser industry on imported fossil fuel feedstock and increase the security of supply in line with our climate objectives. secondly, self-sufficiency requires greater efficiency in fertiliser consumption. to this end, the 28 cap strategic plans include 122 interventions directed at improving nutrient management, 58 eco-schemes and sub-schemes and 64 agro-environment climate commitments. the most relevant practices supported are improving soil cover, crop diversification and rotation, and the use of catch crops. to encourage more efficient fertiliser use, six member states support precision farming through eco-schemes, while many more support investment in technology. the commission is ready to support member states to increase the ambition of such actions in future revisions of the cap strategic plans. we are also inviting eur 180 million under horizon europe towards projects focused on developing alternative fertilising products, as well as more efficient and nature-based solutions for nutrient management. finally, let me address your first question about how the commission intends to ensure that adequate advice and tools on improving soil fertility and fertiliser management are available for farmers. under the new cap, we will see an expansion of farm advisory services with concrete indicators to assess the number of farmers receiving training and advice. the commission will use these indicators to monitor how member states are implementing their advisory services. furthermore, the commission will work with member states to ensure that more sustainable farming practices can be widely adopted by farmers. for instance, we will oversee the implementation of the farm sustainability tool, a new digital tool that provides support for a more efficient use of fertilisers. finally, the commission is also going to put forward a proposal for a soil health law, which will aim to ensure that by 2050 all the european union soil ecosystems are in healthy condition and are thus more resilient. in that context, the commission is also assessing measures that can contribute to achieving the objective of the reduction of nutrient losses by at least 50 %. i will conclude here, but i am happy to discuss all of these points in greater detail. to summarise, the commission has provided a number of measures to address the fertiliser challenge in our short-term emergency actions in the cap legislation and in our long-term strategies. it is now up to member states to implement these measures. in this, they have the full support of the commission.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i wish to thank the commissioner for coming here today to discuss this very important issue. we all see how food prices across europe have increased enormously over the last number of months, and the key component to all that is the cost of inputs at farm level, and key to that is fertiliser. two key driving factors that drove the cost of fertiliser are the lack of imports due to the war in ukraine and the price of gas. frankly, in my opinion, you said that you’ve responded – but, well, the response has not been enough. we need additional measures. we need additional funding to support the industry in the short term. we need to remove the anti-dumping measures and to ensure that there is a supply of both the raw material, of the like of gas, and indeed a supply of fertiliser in the coming months ahead. unless we do this, food prices will continue to increase. quite simply, we can’t afford to allow that happen. in the longer term, we have to look at a situation where we wean ourselves off the dependency on fertiliser. we all agree that the use of the like of clover, the use of the like of organic materials, has enormous potential, but there needs to be additional funding to help farmers to achieve that. the crisis reserve has been talked about in the past as the solution. the crisis reserve has meant only eur 50 per farmer, and is quite simply not enough. we also need – as you mentioned yourself – to act as regards soil fertility. if we have the proper soil fertility, we will need less fertiliser. so through the cap, and through other measures, we have to help farmers to ensure that their soil fertility is appropriate. but one particular issue that concerns me, particularly at the moment, is that there is distortion within the market. i was looking at figures there this week with a variation where in some parts of europe, say for instance like germany, or indeed the uk or in other parts of the world, fertiliser prices have dropped by up to 40%, while in other parts, they haven’t. we need a fertiliser observatory to ensure that there is an equivalent all across europe in terms of fertilisers, and we also need to ensure across the board that every country is treated equally. you have left it that individual countries act on their own. we need a european response, so an equivalent response across each country, across europe, and there isn’t this discrepancy where some countries have invested in their own industry and others happened haven’t. we need an observatory for transparency across europe and we need european intervention to support all countries, not just some.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, the availability of fertilisers is essential to our food supply. you have to say it loud and clear. so we need the fertilizer. do we want to replace them with others? yes, but we need the fertilisers right now - and at a time when there is severe inflation in europe. it also has a lot to do with the shortage of the shopping basket in that inflation. so it plays an important role. russia's illegal invasion of ukraine has caused an unprecedented increase in the price of nitrogen fertilizers. we're looking at it. on the other hand, much of the european union's industry has been shrinking, its production capacity has decreased and there is therefore less availability. it is also important, commissioner, that many european farmers - many farmers! - are now faced with the decision of how far they can risk their planting decisions, given the current situation of fertiliser and input prices. so farmers must be helped. i would like to make a plea here for the farmers of the countries bordering ukraine, such as romania and bulgaria, 'your country'. they need exceptional help. in this respect, i join the petition. i want to tell you that communication is not enough. we need a genuine fertiliser strategy that looks to the future, that develops a european industry with new fertilisers that is not dependent on third countries, that guarantees availability for farmers, including with aid. my country has helped farmers with 300 million euros. not every country can afford it all the time. aid must be european, otherwise it is discriminatory. the cap is not enough for everything, and even less so when it has been frozen at current prices since 2000. we therefore need funds and we need a european strategy which will lead us to replace these mineral fertilizers, which we do not want, with others. but above all: either we help the farmers or we have no future and, moreover, we will have problems with european food.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the 'farmer to the plate' strategy to include the following areas: the commission has already proposed a new law on nature conservation, the sustainable use of plant protection products, the industrial emissions directive, the soil health directive and so on. they just put a heavy burden on farm families. the money is often mentioned in the common agricultural policy as compensation for this increase in the burden. however, these funds are already woven into the system and we cannot spend those funds twice. i also believe that subsidies are just a cover for the bleeding. what has really helped farmers and gardeners is a good earning model. in this case, a green revenue model. this is the only way to make the sector more sustainable. the authorisation of fertiliser substitutes made from animal or human manure is one such example contributing to a green profit model. it saves farmers fertilizer costs, contributes to a circular agriculture, reduces our dependence on natural gas and prevents co2 emissions. in fact, the european commission's research institute has already drawn up criteria for these fertiliser substitutes. these products are called 'renure'. today, for the third time, the european parliament voted in favour of the call to allow renure as a replacement for fertiliser. it is high time that the commission put forward proposals for this by the summer at the latest.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. it is good that the commission has recognised the fatal dependence we have placed our european agriculture on fossil fertilisers. sadly, this is happening now, when we are witnessing the war in ukraine. because this dependence on fossil fuels is the problem. and the answers cannot be here: more mines, less tariffs, public money for the producers of fertilizer, because fertilizer also has another problem: it causes climate damage, it causes environmental damage, it pollutes our groundwater. we have large parts of europe where we have nitrate pollution of the groundwater, and millions of citizens can no longer drink the groundwater here. we have a problem of climate damage that is greater than that of air and sea transport in europe. the solutions are on the table, and many farmers are smarter than those who sometimes claim to represent them. because the demand for artificial fertilisers has fallen massively, because our farmers know what the alternatives are: organic fertilisers, leguminous crops that collect the nitrogen themselves from the air, plowless agriculture yes, without herbicides. there are a lot of farmers out there who are using innovative techniques or using traditional knowledge to show that you can either completely eliminate or massively reduce the need for artificial fertilizer. we are using artificial fertilisers today on a scale that is far too high, which leads to over-fertilisation of many areas. and i cannot understand why those on the conservative side of the house, whether in parliament or in the commission, are still relying on this old fossil fuel strategy, which clearly has to be phased out for the sake of the climate, biodiversity and the protection of our groundwater, and are not finally focusing on innovative technologies. and yes, the communication also includes a little bit of this stuff on the page. that is where the focus must be, and that is where we must train farmers to replace fertilisers, and not to counterbalance the impulse we are seeing now to reduce fertilisers in european agriculture by excessive tax incentives. and anyway, your announcement came at a time when fertilizer prices were actually very high. but what are we talking about now? in most parts of europe, we are approaching october 2021 prices. and in return for this short-term increase in fertilizer prices, to attack the green deal, that's what we're seeing in this house right now from the conservative side. this is not a forward-looking approach, and it is playing with the future of our next generations and the independence of our agriculture.
the measures proposed by the commission and also our parliament's resolutions are a good start to get rid of dependence on imported industrial fertilisers and on russia. there are many sources of organic nutrients that are not being used to their full extent, such as manure, digestate and sewage sludge. processing organic nutrients into fertilisers is an opportunity for farmers to reduce their dependence on industrial fertilisers. the movement of livestock through pastures and their manure, which supplements the soil with nutrients and organic matter, is equally important for the soil. our main objective should be to enable farmers to use the widest possible range of natural organic matter that they put into the soil. our big challenge is also to work on removing unnecessary legislative and administrative burdens and improving the functioning of the european fertiliser market. the budget reserve should be prioritised for investment in research into alternatives to industrial fertilisers and precision farming. only then can we improve the soil and ensure sufficient agricultural production.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, commissioner, family farmers in ireland and across the eu face soaring costs. corporate greed is responsible, and family farmers are suffering for it. it is obnoxious that corporations are using the geopolitical situation to exploit them. despite the recent fall in the price of natural gas, fertiliser companies continue to charge extortionate rates. improvements in the market have not filtered down to farmers. they are set to spend over a billion on fertiliser this year, currently paying an average of over eur 800 per tonne. they are rightly demanding that something be done. therefore, i tabled amendments to support the use and supply of organic fertilisers, and it is good to see them in the resolution. domestically sourced organic alternatives to chemical and mineral fertilisers are needed to reduce dependency on these corporations, especially in ireland, where we have an ample population of livestock to help meet these needs. i also welcome the proposals in this resolution that aim to ensure fertiliser is sold at true market prices to help prevent exploitation of farmers. but urgent action by both the irish government and the eu commission is now needed, especially as rising inflation is negating the effectiveness of cap payments to farmers. ireland needs to consider state aid measures to assist farmers faced with an increase in the cost of fertiliser. greece has done this, so why hasn’t ireland? the resolution also calls on the commission to boost the deployment of small- and medium-scale biogas plants. however, in my own constituency in midlands-north-west in ireland, state authorities have failed in their responsibility to engage with communities, such as in gort, in galway, in their attempt to deploy such plants. on this basis, i’ve tabled an amendment to this resolution that calls for any such deployment to be done with the consultation of our communities. therefore, i encourage my colleagues in this chamber to support amendment 15, and i encourage meps to vote in favour of the resolution and support our family farmers.
mr. chairman, first of all, i'd like to thank mr. norbert lins and mr. markey colm for their work. ladies and gentlemen, access to fertilisers was a problem for european farmers before the war, but especially for those in the east, who have lower subsidies. dependence on russian gas, but also on chemical fertilizers from russia and belarus, is currently creating difficulties in terms of food security. and i'm not just talking about the european union, but i'm talking about global food security, both in terms of quantity and the need for food to be affordable. it is estimated that at least 30 to 50 percent of the world's crop yields are attributed to the application of fertilizer, and according to studies, we cannot feed the world's population today without fertilizer. today, in the countries at war with ukraine, romania, bulgaria, poland, and moldova, agricultural products are sold at far below cost, and the lack of fertilizer is driving them to the brink of bankruptcy. even in the short term, this shortage threatens the timely establishment of crops, negatively impacting farmers and food security. we need such solutions urgently. farmers need access to affordable electricity, natural gas, fertilisers and rapid legislation on new plant breeding techniques to increase crop yields. it is also important to accelerate the process of external convergence so that farmers can meet the challenges they face today. commissioner, we appreciate the commission's fertiliser plan, but can the european commission understand that farmers now need financial resources to be made available to them to deal with this crisis situation? can the european commission understand that farmers need money not just from the cap crisis reserve, but from alternative sources of finance outside the common agricultural policy? without such resources we risk the bankruptcy of european farmers, which is certainly not what we want.
mr president, commissioner, the prices at which farmers sell their commodities are falling. the input prices that farmers use to produce these commodities are still at record highs. but the price of food in the supermarket keeps rising, contributing to the high inflation that we are desperately fighting. this year, we will be happy if ukraine delivers to the market about half of the production of grain, oilseeds and other commodities. our farmers are implementing a new agricultural policy that is certainly more environmentally friendly, but it will further limit food production. commissioner, the problems are not behind us, the big problems are still ahead of us and the promises of cheap food and stability are false political promises. this debate is not about how much more money we can find in the budget to help farmers. this debate is about what business model our farmers should choose for the next few years. that's the most important thing, to present a vision, a stable outlook for the years ahead. please submit what we are asking you for in the long term: a long-term soil nutrient strategy. will we continue to import fertilisers from unstable countries as we do now, or will we effectively promote them in the eu and successfully transition to more expensive but greener fertilisers and new sources of nutrients? how will this strategy fit into the future european agricultural model and the food industry in this decade? how do we use these inputs to help solve the hunger problem in the developing world, so that we don't leave them in the hands of russia?
madam president, i’m a bit surprised by the discussion from some of my colleagues. we’ve been talking in this house about the climate emergency, and something needs to happen. we’ve been talking about energy poverty, people paying high energy bills every day because of their houses being totally inefficient and leaking. we have been talking about the war in ukraine, where we are dependent of fossil regimes like putin’s. now we have a proposal on the table that is addressing climate change, that is lowering our dependence on fossils, that is lowering the energy bill for our consumers. and now some are complaining that this should be too forceful, we should not force it. well, the issue is we have here short—term investments needed for long—term gains, so we need to overcome this market failure. and are we obliging people? we are obliging governments. we are obliging governments to invest in this, to deliver jobs and to make sure that our people are not wasting money on their energy bill. that’s why this regulation is so important and should be supported by all of us. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
blue-card reply. – well, first of all, we have indeed a need for an investment programme – as i said, an investment programme that will deliver jobs. if you look at the mff, the european multiannual financial framework – and indeed i know in poland you have some issues in getting that money, but that’s your problem –eur 110 billion is being dedicated, which you can use for investments. so in that sense, we have also asked in the report that, for the next mff, the commission will need to come with proposals. as part of repowereu there is money made available, so there is a lot of european money that is available and that will deliver on climate, lower energy bills, jobs and less dependency on russia. you should be in favour of that. that you can’t access european money is your problem and you need to solve it first.
madam president, i would like to thank you. are you a homeowner? then you're gonna listen very carefully now. millions of homeowners in the eu will have to renovate their homes to save energy. at the same time, the eu is doing nothing to reduce its own energy consumption. the european parliament's energy costs quadrupled in 2022 compared to the previous year, amounting to over dkk 600 million. the pointless warm-up of two parliaments in brussels and strasbourg is a disrespectful waste and a mockery of the citizens. it's insane that we have to heat two buildings for parliament. swedish pensioners will have to borrow to afford to renovate their houses to eu standards while the european parliament is going back and forth between brussels and strasbourg. ordinary citizens are already doing an incredible amount to save energy, while the eu is totally ignoring it and just throwing the money out the window. it's a disgrace!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are very serious and very responsible legislators. i speak for myself, for my political group, the socialists and democrats, and we have very clear ideas and we know that the interest of citizens, households and businesses today is to save energy, to consume less and to pay less in their bills; it's about preparing for the future, not sitting still like some would like, without giving the tools to deal with the big transformations we're experiencing. so, i think, with this measure, we are actually helping citizens, families in particular, and businesses, to cope with change and to spend less. this is the substance. of course they need help. we are very responsible and serious. this measure will set in motion a great number of works in the construction sector, which will need to be taken care of in its supply chain, of job opportunities and we will have to be careful that there is no exploitation and undeclared work but as far as families are concerned, they will have a valorization of their assets. of course, we have to help them. time and resources are the two sticking points. we 've decided on the timing . i would ask the commission to be more courageous and more concrete, because that is the critical point.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the directive on the energy efficiency of buildings which we are about to vote on is a good one because it allows us to reduce the cost of bills and improve the quality of buildings. with the instruments made available by this directive, which are often interpreted in a fanciful way by the supporters of energy and climate inertia, the whole of europe will make a very large investment which will already in the medium term have as a return a substantial reduction in energy consumption, which will make the coffers of many european citizens empty. more than heritage! the longer we delay these interventions, the higher the costs will be, both in terms of energy bills and in terms of vulnerability and therefore geopolitics. the question is: who's gonna pay for all this? this directive explains that, since several existing european funding instruments can be used, public funds will be used to support the groups of the population who need them most. switching suppliers of fossil fuels to deal with the energy crisis generated by the russian invasion of ukraine is not a solution that keeps us vulnerable. isolating our homes, on the other hand, means making us increasingly independent of outside factors and actors. it's something we have to try to do quickly: it is not true that there is a hidden treasure, but there is a great opportunity to help citizens at such a delicate time. (the speaker agrees to reply to a 'blue card' speech)
the intervention requested by the blue card draw. the honourable member, the honourable member, the greens and the french renew colleagues speak only of reducing co2 as if that were the sole aim of this document. they're very ambitious in this green transition, and that's how they conceived the document. every transition is certainly expensive, every deep renovation is expensive, much more expensive than partial. madam president, i don't know why there is -15, since i speak just 15 seconds. can you change the time there, please? - i know. no, no, i haven't asked the question. and on the other hand, you socialists, you talk about cutting the bill. so, and that it should be aimed at the poorest, i wonder, isn't it actually a contradictory document? and who's gonna pay for that? how will paying an energy certificate every five years and introducing a global warming potential certificate make those bills cheaper? who's gonna pay for the introduction of these heaters? in the end, that's what i'm interested in.
the answer is "blue card". i do not think that this document is contradictory. reducing co2 is one of the obvious elements, because obviously, by improving the quality of buildings, we consume less, and on the other hand we save on bills. so you do a double job: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let there be no misunderstanding: we all share the objective of energy efficiency in buildings. but this text is yet another example of how the ecological transition should not be conducted. firstly, because it does not take sufficient account of the differences and specificities of the various member states. italy is particularly significant in this respect, with its unique building heritage of historical and cultural value. secondly, because it is a measure which obliges rather than encourages, and places the burden of heavy intervention on households and member states. the consequences for our housing market are likely to be very severe: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the unemployment rate, such as the general devaluation of real estate, risks to the banking system, higher construction costs, the suspension of anti-seismic measures and the desecration of tourist attractions. we hope that the time for ideological measures will be over and that we can return to talking about the green transition with a little bit of healthy realism.
madam president, the energy crisis is leading us to consider ways of reducing the energy consumption of buildings and thus saving energy. but we also have to take into account how costly such a change can be and how realistic it is, given the specific situation of each member state. the current draft directive offers some solutions, but not all of them are acceptable. what i think is right is that the directive distinguishes between residential and office buildings. improving the energy efficiency of administrative buildings will certainly contribute to reducing emissions, for example building infrastructure for alternative fuelled vehicles. however, it is essential that the proposal comes with an exception for such buildings used by micro and small and medium-sized enterprises. for these, the required investments might not be financially viable. but i think it's completely out of the question that we adopt the same strict rules for family housing. already tight household budgets cannot cope with mandatory insulation requirements or new heating methods. we therefore need to assess the impact of the requested measures carefully so that they do not lead directly to a jump in rents and property prices. we can't afford that in the current situation.
(starting off off microphone)... changes are happening. they've been going on for centuries, for which we have written records, they've been going on for millions of years, without industry, without transportation, without agriculture, without man. they will occur even if man as a species disappears. to pretend that man is the main cause of climate change is completely unsustainable. similarly, human activities will not prevent climate change. the less that can be achieved in the european union for the benefit of the whole world. the european union is one tenth of the world's land area. anthropogenic greenhouse gas production accounts for 8 to 9%, but anthropogenic greenhouse gas production accounts for less than 5% of total greenhouse gas production. the measures being implemented in the european union will affect the greenhouse gas balance by a factor of ten. but it will be possible to destroy european industry, agriculture, transport and to deepen human misery in the european union.
mr. chairman, mr. high representative, the united states and canada are our greatest and closest allies and partners in all areas: common defense, security, economy, culture, innovation. in the current era of russian imperial aggression and increasingly confrontational chinese behavior, we as the west must hold together far more closely. and most importantly, we must not allow any, even the slightest hint of trade disputes or perhaps even a trade war. i'm just going to go back to what's been dropped here a few times. unfortunately, we don't have a trade agreement with the united states. i consider it a mistake, but it's already happened. so are we going to resolve these trade relations with at least minor sectoral agreements? you said two deals. i think that's too little. are we going to do another one? we're basically talking about what we can do next. but any confrontation with the united states is not in our interest. and what will be our next response to the iru?
mr president, dear colleagues, i have to say that after four years intensely working on getting georgia closer to us, knowing it is also something that the citizens want, i am at a loss with the situation now. it seems that whatever we do, it’s a reason for prime minister garibashvili to accuse us of foul play or for other representatives of the government to personally attack each of us. now, after doing the right thing and reconsidering this version of the foreign agents law, there is no humility; on the contrary: horrible claims about how the opposition would kill a person just to cause chaos, and that we are the foreign agents interfering. i’d like to remind the georgian government of one thing: we are not here against your will. you have an association agreement, the dcfta. you are eager to get candidate status. you do everything to get closer to us. but at each step, you throw a stone at us. so if you want to get closer to the eu just to be able to throw stones from a short distance, i don’t think we have an agreement. pick a side, or we will stop being a choice.
mr president, the situation in moldova shows us how unwise it was for the eu to focus only on itself and its own problems and to neglect its surroundings. the rejection of further integration, although not explicitly mentioned, has led to frustration among the people of countries that have long aspired to eu membership. this frustration fuels anti-european sentiment and often means that part of society is leaning towards russia. we see this in serbia, for example, and moldova is in a similar situation. a small landlocked state just outside the eu border, with a long-standing frozen conflict with a pro-russian part of it. we need to give moldova a clear vision of rapid eu accession and we need to take this seriously, because we will not get more chances to keep democratic countries around our borders. democratic principles and the maintenance of common values are far more valuable than the 100% transposition of all european legislation.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear colleagues, commissioner, i believe that eu—azerbaijan relations need to be updated. however, i must underline that any deepening of ties with the eu must be conditional. that is not happening. there is no progress in respecting citizens’ rights and freedoms, no improvement in ceasing repression of the political opposition and civil society, and no advancement in the rule of law, corruption and independence of the judiciary. on top of that, there has not been a solution to the lachin corridors ongoing blockade, for which azerbaijan is responsible and should take all measures at its disposal to ensure unimpeded movement of persons, vehicles and cargo in both directions. for those reasons, i cannot agree that the eu renewed its relations based on its energy needs. by now, we should have learned the lesson that support of authoritarian regimes does not pay up, not for us, and definitely not for azerbaijani citizens.
mr president, i apologise, but we have not seen the result of the previous vote. if you could please say what the result was.
mr president, yes, we terribly need a more competitive economy and to generate more jobs in europe now. but we are taking the wrong way. a typical example is the monopoly in electromobility production, which this commission is trying to promote. we are just shooting into our leg and we are inviting china to overcome us, instead of keeping our competitive advantage in combustion engines alive. we need to change course. we need less green ideology and more capitalist pragmatism. for innovation, we need fewer bureaucrats and more venture funds. we need less regulation and more liberty. we do not need bans, command economies or long—term planning. we need the freedom of choice and for competition inside europe to succeed globally.
madam president, council, commissioner, today, during the ceremony of the international women’s day, we had the honour to listen to honourable and great shirin ebadi, an inspiration for us all. but equal to so many that stand up and fight for women’s rights, for sexual and reproductive health and rights, she lives in exile. and this week, as it was already mentioned, the polish women’s rights defender, justyna wydrzyńska, was sentenced to eight months’ community service for having helped a fellow woman to access abortion care. dear all, we must be very clear on that: we, as the european union, have to protect women who are being prosecuted for helping to carry out or even just advocating the right to abortion care and other sexual and reproductive health and rights. and the number of those that are threatened is rising. and following the recent mission of the femm committee to the us and the csw, where i see many colleagues here, after the many talks we had on srhr with ngos, with experts, it’s so crystal clear: the european union must be a front fighter in defending women’s rights and the free access to abortion all over the world – a fight where we have to be at the forefront, that women and girls worldwide can rely on us.
i have a blue card from karen melchior, but with your kind cooperation i think we are running very late, so thank you very much for your understanding. it is of course an important debate, there’s no doubt about that, and the need for debate is there.
madam president, commissioner, we are living in the 21st century, and yet in some countries we seem to be going back in time. yesterday, in poland, justyna wydrzyńska was convicted of helping to get abortion pills to a woman who was expecting a child and didn't want to have a child with her abusive husband. as justyna herself said, "this process is trying to stop activists". but brave women like justyna will continue to support and help and defend the human rights of all. that's why we need to protect those who fight for basic women's rights. we need ngos and activists. in countries that do not respect basic human rights, these are the only people who help women and girls and advocate for services that the state should provide. it's not just activists, it's doctors too, who are worried about giving women access to abortion with the prospect of prosecution. this medieval politics has already claimed the lives of at least six polish women and it does not belong in europe. defending the right to access safe and legal abortion and assistance cannot be a criminal offence, neither in poland nor anywhere else in the european union. and the right to safe and accessible abortion must be clearly established as a basic human right.
on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. – madam president, and good morning to you all, we are discussing today a european citizens’ initiative that got more than 1 million verified signatures. and the title of that initiative is ‘save the bees’, where everyone is of course very much concerned about, but i think also very important: save the farmers. and for very sure, i know that we will have a discussion again about our farming model. but what the citizens are aiming for here also is, by changing our agricultural model, we can save the bees and the farmers at the same time. and for me that is always a pretty strange part of the discussion that i have here in this house. when we are discussing agriculture, i don’t meet anyone who is happy with the developments in our agriculture system. we see that young farmers are more and more reluctant to get into this business. we see that less and less farmers are there and that they’re getting bigger and bigger, but that the profits are shrinking. so no one is really happy with the current agriculture model. doesn’t that mean we need a substantial change, a substantial change that benefits the farmer but also benefits our natural system, which our agriculture system is built upon? and that is exactly what this initiative is trying to put forward. and that’s also a call to the commission to do now something about the change of our agriculture system. and of course, the commission launched its farm to fork initiative, which, by the way, was very well supported by this house as well. but now the question is, what are we going to do with the farm to fork ambition? yes, there is one file out, that is the sustainable use of pesticides. and you see already and probably some colleagues will mention that again, there is not full support for that proposal and some even want to get rid of it. that would mean there is nothing of the farm to fork strategy then on the table. then what’s your plan? you will stick to business as usual with the model you’re not happy about. so something needs to change. and this is really a question to the commission. what are you going to propose to change? not strategies, not initiatives, not nice reports, but laws to change to make us less dependent on pesticides, fertilisers, antibiotics, because that’s the model that needs to change for the bees and the farmers.
for the committee on agriculture and rural development. the commission has already made a number of proposals. bees are an essential part of our ecosystem: without them, there is no harvest and no food. but i also say that farmers are an essential part of our ecosystem, because without them there is no harvest and no food. it is therefore all the more important that we develop practical and workable solutions together with them, the farmers. we must work with the farmers in cooperation and not in confrontation . if we make rash decisions, perhaps guided by ideals but not by reason, we will not get there. the european citizens' initiative save bees and farmers! bees-friendly agriculture for a healthy environment shows how important this concern is to the european people. but the question is: how can we guarantee the long-term protection of bees and farmers? i tell you, we can have a dialogue. we need alternatives. that means we must first develop the alternative means, allow them and then enforce the reduction. the commission is clearly behind schedule here. when we talk about biodiversity and how we can preserve or improve it, we are talking in particular about family farming. many complain that it is becoming more and more important, that farmers are giving up. but above all, there are many regulations, documentation, bureaucracy, which are the reason why the small farmers are leaving and the farm is not going to the next generation. i think we must take that into account too. in my home state of baden-württemberg, we are pursuing the path of cooperation rather than confrontation. we have shown this way with a biodiversity enhancement law. the european union should take a closer look at this path. at the moment, i'm afraid we're at an impasse.
on behalf of the committee on petitions. madam president, madam commissioner, first of all, i would like to congratulate the organisers of this european citizens' initiative on the success, on behalf of the committee on petitions, of the support received by 1 200 000 europeans, making it clear that this is a priority issue for european citizenship. their proper monitoring is essential in a participatory democracy. the peti committee has received a large number of petitions on these issues from both individuals and organisations. the european petitioners called for a greater commitment to the welfare of bees and pollinators, which is vital for environmental health and food security. the latest evidence has also shown the need for a significant intensification of policies that better preserve habitats and agricultural areas so that they become a key driver for the recovery of biodiversity. adequate support for farmers in the necessary rapid transition to full agro-ecology is key, with particular emphasis on diversified and sustainable small farming enterprises, organic farming and research in the field of pesticide-free and gm-free agriculture. this eci, as well as the petitioners, have demonstrated the need not only to address specific issues but also to fit into the broader context of the european union's mission to restore ecosystems. i fully support the objective of the total protection of bees and other pollinators, which are suffering a sharp decline both in the european union and in the rest of the world. nine percent of bee species are threatened, bee populations have declined by 37 percent, and up to 40 percent of bee species may be threatened. the decline in pollinators is due to a number of factors. this successful european citizens' initiative, with its main demands, offers the european union a great opportunity to take firm action to reverse the decline of pollinators, madam commissioner. i take this opportunity to greet the beekeepers in galicia and to say clearly: save the bees and the farmers!
member of the commission. – madam president. good morning, colleagues, like the farmers of europe, we’re up early and having this really important debate. for obvious reasons, i’m very happy to be taking this very important debate. this european citizens’ initiative is talking about saving bees and farmers. we’ve heard very strong contributions from the environment committee, the agriculture committee and the petitions committee. so i want to congratulate the members of those relevant committees for a very successful public hearing in january on this topic, because it allowed the organisers to present their initiative and for members to express their views. i think today’s plenary debate is also about exchanging views on this topic. it also shows that the european citizens initiative can be very much agenda setting and it allows citizens to shape the public debate on critical issues for the european union. our citizens are increasingly concerned about the use of pesticides and the build—up of pesticide residue in the environment. society as a whole, including farmers, wants to see less pesticide use and lower risks. we also saw this in the calls from the conference on the future of europe and indeed other european citizens’ initiatives. we anticipate that the recently updated eu rules for approving micro-organisms for use in plant protection will facilitate more access to biological alternatives to chemical pesticides. we also need to acknowledge that farmers need workable alternatives to allow them to continue to supply consumers with food. in addition, the revision of the eu pollinators initiative adopted in january and the upcoming revision of the bee guidance document for pesticide risk assessment will boost protection for bees and wild pollinators. recent analysis carried out by the jrc shows that biodiversity loss is a major threat to eu food security. it already affects our agriculture sector with potentially irreversible impacts in europe and globally. we have lost so much nature already that just protecting what we have is no longer an option. we really have to step up efforts not only to preserve, but also to restore nature and to reverse biodiversity loss. this will help to improve essential ecosystem services like pollination and pest control. honourable members, you will decide on two commission proposals on the regulation on nature restoration and the regulation on the sustainable use of plant protection products. i would ask you to keep this citizens’ initiative in mind in your decisions. european citizens expect an ambitious outcome and substantial progress in the transition towards sustainability. this initiative also raises key questions as to how farmers can play a central role in the transition towards more environmentally sustainable agriculture. and it calls for an increase in agroecological and organic practices. the new common agricultural policy entered into force in january this year. it has significantly higher environmental ambition compared with the past. it provides a combination of obligations for farmers to be able to benefit from cap support, and it supports more demanding practices, allowing reduced pesticides, the development of organic farming, the creation of new landscape features and other environmentally friendly agricultural practices. the new regulations, if ambitious, and the new cap, if implemented correctly, will help the eu respect the commitments made at the convention on biological diversity cop 15 under the new global biodiversity framework. we need to solve the energy crisis in this decade with efforts by everyone for nature and pollinators, for farmers and for all europeans. our farmers are custodians of the land and they are central to this effort. their futures depend on it, and we should listen to their concerns. the debate today will feed into our ongoing reflection. we will present our general conclusions, including the action we intend to take in our communication planned for early april. i look forward now to an exchange of views.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european citizens' initiatives are an instrument of direct democracy and i think it is generally commendable when citizens express their views. i also know how difficult it is to get the necessary signatures - one million - on the paper. i myself have worked on the front lines of a citizens' initiative in the past. the protection of bees, of insects in general and of biodiversity as a whole is undoubtedly a matter of concern to farmers as well. after all, many agricultural crops also depend on pollination. it is also clear that the working conditions of farmers, especially the safety of workers in handling chemical agents, must be closely monitored and hazards minimised. less chemistry is therefore in the interest not only of the bees, but also of the farmers, of the farmers, and especially in the interest of the farmers' own wallets. however, it is sometimes also suggested that farmers use chemicals out of sheer folly and that they can be easily dispensed with. it's not that simple. we need alternatives, which you, commissioner, have just pointed out. unfortunately, many of the people who signed the initiative will also want, in the same breath, unlimited and unrestricted access to food and often to food at very low prices. if we want to reduce the use of pesticides, there will be a loss of production. the burden of this must not ultimately fall on the farmers. they have no financial leeway. little is accomplished when everyone claims they would be willing to pay more. the current market situation shows quite clearly that in most cases this is simply a flat lie. inflation has led to an increase in the demand for cheap goods. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not distorted by the introduction of new forms of production. i think that if people in europe buy sustainable local food and accept slightly higher prices, they are probably doing the cause the best service, probably better even than signing a petition. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals.
for the renew group. madam president, the protection of bees and other pollinators is essential and important not only for the environment and biodiversity but above all for the adequate production of food. the solution is undoubtedly to reduce the use of chemicals. sometimes i hear that farmers love to use chemicals. they don't. she's no fun to work with, and she costs a lot of money. but he has to. why would you do that? what, then, is the solution? less harmful alternatives, and you're braking. plants that don't need so much chemistry, and we've been waiting for years for new varieties and new genomic techniques to be approved, and you, who are screaming for bees, are holding them back. in short, there are no simple solutions to complex problems. commissioner, please propose a package for bees that will include all these aspects.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, today we discussed two important proposals. in our view, they represent a step forward towards limiting global temperature increase and fulfilling our promises on the paris agreement. fluorinated greenhouse gases and ozone-depleting substances are extremely potent human-made greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming when released into the atmosphere. ozone-depleting substances damage the very ozone layer itself that protects earth and humanity against dangerous ultraviolet radiation from the sun. these chemicals have or used to have many very practical applications in our everyday life, for example in fridges, air conditioners, insulation foams, in fire protection and as propellants in asthma sprays. our existing rules have been quite successful and have already delivered very important emissions reductions. however, scientific evidence pushes us to be more ambitious. to start with fluorinated gases or f-gases: these were the fastest-growing greenhouse gas emissions before we regulated them. since we introduced the hfc phase-down in 2014, the emissions of f-gases in the eu have started to decrease. in 2020, they were already 20% below their peak. but it’s not enough. we need to do better and innovations on the way allow us to do so. the new rules before you today will further reduce f-gas emissions, contributing to europe’s 2030 climate target and beyond. it equips our economy better and our pathway towards climate neutrality, setting an example to the rest of the world, and hopefully they will follow. we can transform this part of our economy so that it is no longer dependent on these highly warming gases. in the end, the whole world will have to make this transformation, and our industries will be the first to supply these low-carbon and climate-neutral solutions. this transition will bring benefits for citizens as well, with, for instance, heat pumps that are more energy efficient. we want to have more heat pumps, but we also want them climate-ready. all sectors have to be part of this, be it for medical dose inhalers or switchgear. they will all have to make the switch. still, i have to stress the regulation only gives incentives for the switch but does not prohibit existing safe solutions where these are required. on the report of bas eickhout, in detail, we welcome that it supports the introduction of a quota price, as it will reduce misuse of the system and help us in implementing the regulation and the montreal protocol. however, we should analyse carefully the added value of the additional earmarking proposed for the remaining quota revenue. the new f-gas rules must facilitate better control and prevent illegal activities, and we welcome parliament’s efforts to further strengthen them. with your vote tomorrow, you will start and we will start building an economy where f-gases are no longer part of the problem, but rather part of the solution. turning briefly to the ozone-depleting substances regulation: going ahead with their successful phase-out is really essential for our climate agenda. thanks to the montreal protocol, we can expect that the ozone hole will recover by approximately 2070 and prevent a major impact in global warming. models indicate that the existence of the protocol has prevented up to 2 ºc of climate warming by 2070 because of ozone-depleting substances only. but these effects are, in short, only if there is no backsliding. the danger is real, as shown by recent illegal production of ozone-depleting substances in china. the eu must continue leading by example and inspire others in the world to be ambitious. one major area where emissions still occur is an insulation foams in old houses when buildings are demolished or renovated. this can be avoided by obligations to recover and destroy the ozone-depleting substances. i very much welcome that the envi committee supported this concrete measure. as regards the use of ozone-depleting substances in feedstocks. it is the commission’s belief that our proposal is already fully aligned with the montreal protocol, in which feedstock use is not restricted. we will continue the debate but urge for caution that a deviation from this approach might result in relocation of eu companies and potentially higher emissions globally. on both files, it is important for parliament to be ambitious. this is again climate leadership in the making and i warmly want to thank the rapporteurs and their shadows for a job extremely well done.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of the ozone layer is one of the priorities of renew europe and, therefore, we really welcome the agreement that is put on the table on the ozone-depleting substances. we believe that further restriction of those substances will help close the ozone layer and as such will contribute to the public health. so i believe we will be able to support this proposal successfully tomorrow. now, concerning the second regulation on fluorinated gases, we have here, as correctly said, ambitious proposals from the environmental committee aiming to vastly and fastly reduce the use of fluorinated gases. the direction is good, to my feeling with this report, we would undermine further sustainability elements such as the circular economy, energy or material efficiency. and as well, we could put a risk on meeting the goals of the repowereu. this is the reason why some elements have been some amendments, parallel plenary amendments have been tabled in order to address those concerns. i believe that we will be able also to support those amendments. one example for all renew europe proposes to bring into the game the spare parts, because we definitely do not want to force the public to buy new devices before the end of the given life of their currently used product. at the end, i would like to thank to both rapporteurs and all the shadow teams and all those working on those two pieces of legislation. they are very interesting, very technical, and i believe we will have tomorrow a successful vote.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, well, if you know, we will vote tomorrow on the revision of the regulation on fluorinated greenhouse gases, also known as ‘f—gases’, which belongs among the greenhouse gases. therefore, like co2, they have come under the commission’s scrutiny. it is, of course, right to limit the use of f—gases, because they have a high global warming potential, even greater than co2 itself. at the same time, it should be done wisely and definitely not by shooting ourselves in our own foot. besides their other applications, f—gases are used in heat pumps, which become one of the most effective tools to save energy and to cut off from russian gas. that is why more and more households are installing them and public demand is increasing. i want to thank bas eickhout for his rapporteurship, which he carried out in an open—minded and constructive way. i want to thank him, for example, for finding a solution regarding the usage of f—gases for the cooling of nuclear power plants. on the other hand, some crucial elements are still missing in the final compromise. the phase-out of the f—gases in the heat pumps is, in my opinion, too fast for us to be able to meet the requirements. therefore, i want to recommend that we vote for some amendments.
mr president, madam commissioner, the scope of the rule of law report should be extended to respect for fundamental rights, as they directly affect the lives of europeans, and in particular minorities such as the lgbtqi+ community. in hungary, the so-called anti-lgbt law directly restricts the access of minors to basic information about sex education and prohibits any content, even the slightest reference to homosexuality. this medieval censorship is really dangerous because it encourages homophobic attitudes in society and attacks on lgbt people are increasing. a few months ago, two young men were murdered in slovakia because of them. the commission has taken some legal action, but it is not enough. i think that member states that violate european values should simply not receive european money. and that's why pirates calls on all european countries, including the czech republic, to live up to their international commitment to protect human rights. please join the lawsuit against the illegal anti-lgbt laws in hungary. our governments have time to show that we live in the 21st century.
for the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank peter liese, who was the rapporteur for this most important dossier. peter, you were a real honest broker in the best bismarckian tradition. this has allowed us to at least provide relief to the boilers so that the central heat supply does not break down. they also managed to put in place safety brakes to prevent further excessive increases in the price of allowances. but that's where the beauty ends. unfortunately, circumstances have worsened further and we as a whole in the ecr group may not be able to support the package. why would you do that? first, the price of electricity has tripled today. people are getting poorer, they don't have heat, i'm not gonna show any yellow vests, but you can watch tv. wenceslas square in prague was packed yesterday. so this is a problem, a political problem. second, yes, we're saying that putin is to blame. it's putin's fault, but it's also our own. we can't use putin as an alibi for everything, the reality is that the price of the allowance is 100 euros per ton, which is five times the situation two years ago. third, qualified estimates say that electricity consumption will double in ten to fifteen years. we'll have to import it, but we have nowhere else to go. we have nowhere to go because germany is shutting down the last of its nuclear power plants. we'll build new ones, but in 10 to 15 years, with the support of this house, we have no chance of building them. so, vladimir ilyich lenin said, "soviet power plus electrification is equal to communism". we're working on electrification, we're handing over the power of brussels here, so i pray that the result will be better than it was then. (the speaker agreed to answer the floor by raising his blue card.)
blue-card response. – (start of speech off mic) ... is that the situation has changed, that the price of the electricity is three times higher than when we have concluded the agreement here last summer. that is simply the matter of true. secondly, yes, i have to pay three times more than a year ago. (off-mic comments in the chamber)that’s, you know, my token of appreciation to peter. i said, you know, that you approach this as a really honest broker, in the best bismarckian tradition. yeah, but simply, we had a full wenceslas square yesterday, very angry people, so it’s political.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also want to thank my colleagues, particularly those with whom i have worked on the co2 cap-and-trade system, or cbam for short. fit for 55 is the world's largest package of legislation on climate neutrality. but what is the role of the first introduction of cbam? the ets system is based on the free allocation of emission allowances. we've been trying for 17 years, and we've found that the co2 emissions haven't decreased to the extent that we need to. and this is where the co2 cap-off system comes in. it contains a stop sign for those who want to continue to introduce co2-intensive products into our market. we europeans are introducing a new global instrument, the cbam, which takes climate action seriously and creates enormous competitive advantages for fast-growing companies. and here lies the great opportunity: european products would be world leaders. the time is of the essence and some adjustments will have to be made before the actual start of the cbam in january 2026: the scope of application must be extended to include downstream products, especially those made entirely of steel. the council has prevented the extension of the scope. i am not the only one who thinks this is a big mistake, because limited application will lead to carbon leakage and thus to the exodus of our industry. the short speech of long meaning: the cbam is historic. however, we need a wide scope of application which also takes account of the interests of small and mediumsized enterprises. this adjustment must be made before 2026.
mr president, the aim of the fit for 55 package is to: endorse and achieve a sustainable transition. that transition is possible and necessary. the way in which the aim is to be achieved, however, makes us reluctant. the level of ambition is very high in the transition phase, leaving citizens and businesses with insufficient time and comfort to take steps together. a package of this size requires a bearing surface. the transition as envisaged now will lead to a loss of purchasing power in terms of timing and modalities for many families, and especially in the flemish context. this is despite the fact that the security of energy supply is still not guaranteed. i therefore regret that nuclear energy is not being unambiguously chosen as a fully-fledged, reliable and sustainable source of energy in this respect in the energy transition. i am not talking about member states who are backing away from the decision to keep some nuclear reactors open, but i am advocating for decisive investment in new generations of nuclear reactors. if not, it will be a choice that could very well break us down later.
mr president, commissioner, the heat engine is out. we're going to shut down our nuclear industry. excessive taxation and punitive ecology the european union is sinking the french economy. worse still, the european commission is aware of the disaster it is responsible for. this is the reason for the smoking social climate fund, which is a case i have been following for almost a year now. this new tool, managed by the brussels technocracy, is ultimately just a bandage that is being tried to put on a purulent wound that europe has opened itself. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is the member states themselves who are being asked to pay the price for the pressure box which the commission is claiming the right to impose on our devastated economies. as with the recovery plan at the time, it is the french who are working hard and the commission posing for the photo. we therefore denounce the federalist logic which is now in full swing. the union uses and abuses every loophole to encroach on our national competences and turn everything around. by taking the fruits of our labour and pretending to redistribute them generously, the european union is openly mocking us. in the face of this vision, which we reject, we prefer to say yes to a localist policy which turns its back on free trade, yes to the defence of our nuclear industry, yes to a rooted and common sense ecology. yes, three yeses to building a europe of free nations, truly free.
mr president i am pleased that the climate package includes an element that protects european industry. it's a necessity, as manufacturing companies struggle to survive amid war, sanctions and us protectionist measures. cbam is finally doing what the foundation principle of a sound climate policy should be: paying for the polluters, rather than the people and smes, with companies producing cheaper products in third countries with lower climate protection standards. but i also hope that this will encourage our partners to go green, and not to produce in a way that is less environmentally sensitive, and sell the goods that are being pushed out of our markets. i ask the commission to take into account the competitiveness of the union in the forthcoming review of the cbam, i.e. not to restrict imports from third countries unnecessarily, since this makes both european production and eu exports more expensive. the impact of the cbam on the union exports will also have to be examined. it's important that we abide by the rules of the world trade organization.
mr president, i want to thank the rapporteurs for this enormous package; i have been in the european parliament for about nine years and i have never seen such a complex and complex package to negotiate, so i really congratulate you on the enormous work you have done. as usual, our task is to identify some points on which we will then have to continue to work. the commitment is not exhausted, obviously. the first point concerns conditionality in the ets, and my personal criticism is the decision of the envi committee to tighten up this discipline of conditionality. in my view, the market today contains elements that are already strongly capable of providing incentives for decarbonisation. the method of revaluation of benchmarks, for example, is clear, or the gradual abolition of free allowances, for example, is clear. all this has meant that our companies involved in this matter are already investing heavily. in fact, many of the targets set for 2030 and 2050 will not only be met, but will be advanced. the second point is the most dramatic point. the work that has been done is certainly a good start, but on the export side our companies subject to ets and cbam will have a big impact. we have worked perfectly on imports, we must complete the work on exports in such a way that they are not left alone on the international markets.
mr president, this week we approved some of the most important elements of the legislative package 'objective 55', which should enable us to decarbonise our economy. we turn our promises into action, into transformative agreements that we underline have a very important social element. i would like to emphasize the extension and strengthening of one of the pillars of our climate policy, which is the emissions trading system, which has enabled us, since it has been in place since 2005, to reduce emissions by more than 40% in the areas it regulates. we have three questions about this system of buying and selling emissions: extending it to maritime transport, which is very important; preventing the price of emission allowances from skyrocketing with a series of clauses; and, at the same time, building the social climate fund, which should exceed eur 86 billion to support the most vulnerable. in addition, the border adjustment mechanism for carbon has to protect our industry and prevent unfair behaviour by foreign producers. we are doing all this at a time when the ipcc has just reminded us that immediate action is absolutely necessary.
mr president, the climate package that will be voted on tomorrow, negotiated during the czech presidency, will do little to protect the climate and will weaken the european states. key industries such as steel, glass, cement, porcelain, metal processing and chemical manufacturing will be under enormous pressure from the high price of emission allowances. and the climate duty that is supposed to protect local industry from cheap imports is in many cases only reflected in the final price for europeans. extending the emissions allowance to families who drown themselves and drive their own cars is, in this day and age, i'm sorry, crazy. in sum, the czech presidency's agreement will make people's lives more expensive, deepen inflation, do little to help the climate and threaten european industry. this is, sorry, a passivl that cannot be supported.
mr. chairman, before we begin to consider the implications, it is always advisable to examine the assumptions. in the case of impacts from global climate change, the first consideration is whether the target is achievable. of the long list of assumptions which must be called into question in critical evaluation, i shall mention only one for the sake of time. can any measure limited to eu countries alone lead to positive global consequences? they can't. a 55% reduction in co2 emissions, if the eu countries contribute 9%, means a reduction of about 5%, compared to a 17% increase in the previous decade. such a reduction is negligible, even if achievable. can measures linked to the green deal dramatically damage the economic and social situation of citizens in the european union? they can, and they are.
mr president, dear colleagues, ‘china is a big country and you are small countries, and that is a fact’ – that’s what china’s foreign minister said in 2010. and because, individually, we are 27 proud but small countries, formats like 14+1 and flashy state visits of national presidents are playing right into the hands of beijing. and if the commission president or high representative are coming along but are clearly playing a side role, i wonder if this benefits us europeans at all and how much it harms our taiwanese allies or uyghur friends. increasing international tension is forcing us to become serious about european foreign policy. that means qualified majority votes in the council and treaty change. that means eeas with a mandate. that means that we can discuss content, hopefully, next time, and not how disunited we stand globally at the moment.
mr president, dear friends, china is an emerging superpower and aspiring to be the global number one. therefore, we definitely are in a situation of need of a proper and coherent strategy. but this should not be done according to lines which we have seen the last week when president macron went to china to pursue the economic interest of his own country and, as a reward to his host, offered a vision of european equidistance to the united states and china at the same time. he did even worse in the name of the eu. he was speaking about the eu strategic autonomy, but offered a strategic ambiguity instead. and he did this in a situation when we terribly need a strong nato and the cooperation of the us in the ukraine. next time we must do much better.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear colleagues, dear commissioners, our single market has the power to set global standards by the force of its size and by our first—mover advantage. cybersecurity as a requirement for digital products and software is becoming ever more important for our citizens. as attacks increase rapidly, vulnerabilities in us and chinese digital goods are equally unacceptable and create a global explosion of cybercrime. whether these vulnerabilities are intentional, as a certain edward snowden revealed, or a result of a ‘moving fast and breaking things’ mentality does not matter in the end for the security of european citizens. i have already seen global software providers call for a slow and measured approach to our legislative attempts in the cyber realm, and i am afraid that the millions in lobby expenditure by these very companies will make sure that we move too slow to have a substantial result by the end of this mandate, or that it will be filled with so many exemptions that it won’t be worth the effort anymore. we pirates want cybersecurity by design and we want the scope of cyber—related acts to leave no soft spots in our digital single market. european companies and providers must be able to distinguish themselves for higher security standards and be able to compete with the incumbent providers on these standards. some of the most trusted and secure systems are open source mattermost, linux and signal are popular and used, without much advertising, because of their reliability and high safety standards. we must embrace this approach in the eu and move away from proprietary code and commercial secrecy that leaves plenty of room for hidden vulnerabilities.
mr president, dear colleagues, commissioner, the war does not have a human face nor spare the lives of anyone, including children. however, after the atrocities of the 20th century, we made a social contract and set the lines of international law that shouldn’t be crossed. nevertheless, it seems that for the kremlin, history is not something we should learn from. children are forcefully taken and deported to russian camps. then their fate lies either in forced adoption into russian families, pro-russian re-education programmes or military training. and all this is sanctified by the russian government as its officials of all levels are involved in removals, camp operations and the prevention of their return to ukraine. to be frank, international law has been a challenging and often ineffective tool. however, it is our responsibility to ensure that these and any other deplorable actions will be punished and not repeated. when we find culprits of criminal offences, the case is usually closed. why block the door here?
mr president, of course it’s of great importance to address this revealing topic today. we continue to witness horrendous war crimes executed by the russian forces as well as continuously forced deportations of thousands of ukrainian children. officially, 16 000 ukrainian children were abducted, but the true number might be even higher. we had a resolution on the special tribunal for the crime of aggression in january, and we strongly welcome the icc arrest warrants of 24 march too, but in reality, this is the only one way to end these horrific practices: to end the war by defeating the russian invaders. therefore, with the upcoming ramstein conference, we cannot lose the momentum to continue our full support to ukraine. forceful abductions cannot change the identity of the nation. whenever the war ends, it must be imperative that all those responsible are held accountable for their actions. only full justice can bring healing and enable the recovery of ukraine.
mr president, more than 16,000 lives will never be the same. this is the number of ukrainian children who were forcibly taken to russia. this forced deportation is in violation of international humanitarian law and is an absolute war crime that must not go unpunished. last month i wrote to mr borrell, calling for stricter action against these offenders and for increased sanctions. the netherlands has a leading role in this. with the hague as an international city, i am confident that, in addition to the existing international criminal court, my country is the ideal place for the establishment of a ukrainian tribunal. i fully support the arrest warrant against putin. all eu member states have the duty to execute this arrest warrant. we also need to help bring the children back through the diplomatic route. every child deserves to come home safely. it's gone wrong over 16,000 times. every deportation is one too many. this can never happen again.
mr president, dear colleagues, nearly 20 000 children have been forcefully deported from ukraine to russia, and hundreds killed, wounded as a result of russia’s war aggression. these forced deportations and crimes against humanity committed by the aggressor smack of the worst stalinist excesses. i welcome the recent initiative of the commission and the polish government to ensure the return of these children. we must do all in our power for these children to be returned to their loved ones; that these crimes are thoroughly documented, investigated, and then putin, russia’s so-called human rights commissioner, and all responsible are one day brought to justice. it is our moral duty.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. putin has not only launched a criminal war of aggression against ukraine, he is trying to destroy the identity of an entire people. far more than 16 000 children have been separated from their families and taken to russia since the war began. every single case is a war crime. each and every one of these cases is an attempt to destroy families, to rob children of their identity, to wipe out a nation. let us say this to all those who are complaining that there are two warring parties fighting each other, and let us say this to all those who are talking nonsense - confused nonsense - in this house too. ladies and gentlemen, the international criminal court has put an end to these lies. we must implement his decision and ensure that these children can return safely to their families. that is our common commitment.
mr president, madam commissioner, 'i am so happy, so happy to be back home'. these are the first words of bogdan to his mother, who returned to kiev after six months of exile. because the scenario is almost always the same: the day before the holidays, young ukrainians are sent to a "colony" in crimea, and often they never return. the summer camp has simply become a re-education camp. sixteen thousand children officially still in russia or in the annexed territories, practically kidnapped by moscow, some already officially adopted. the commissioner for the rights of the child we dream of hearing this title has been quick to change the russian law to this effect. this is a war crime, which justifies the arrest warrant issued by the international criminal court against vladimir putin and maria lvova-belova. the first against a member of the un security council. what's the matter, mrs. daly? i don't think so, no. i was just... not enough, certainly. but essential and necessary. these children are the spoils of vladimir putin's dirty war. finding them, bringing them home, is our imperative duty as europeans.
mr president, vice-president jourová, the russian federation duma has decided to criminalize any form of cooperation with the international criminal court, which putin does not recognize. it is not just another step in its frontal gallop against international law, but a clear sign that the european union also has a reason to support the international criminal court, which has issued an arrest warrant against putin as responsible for war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity, as well as against the commissioner for the rights of the child linked to the putin administration. the reason is that, in addition to war crimes, there is the forced deportation of at least 1 400 children, artificially declared orphans, of the more than 6 000 who have been brought to russia as a result of the war and taken from their families. the european union is fully supporting the efforts of the office of the prosecutor of the international criminal court to restore international legality. we must also take action in this area, in the area of the relentless prosecution of all war crimes, particularly those committed against the most vulnerable, the displaced children.
mr president, madam vice-president, putin’s regime keeps attacking the most vulnerable civilians: the children. the official ukrainian data speaks about already hundreds of dead children, but ngos assume this number is much, much higher. at the same time, ukrainian children are being deported to russia. we have been receiving horrible stories about russian soldiers stopping cars and trains, and picking out children and taking them to unknown places. children being indoctrinated and young boys trained as soldiers. children being forcibly adopted by russians. this is a genocide, and those responsible for these horrible crimes must be brought to justice and punished.
mr president, madam vice-president, dear colleagues, the tragedy that russia’s war against ukraine has brought along, comes in very different forms. we all have witnessed the unspeakable level of violence that russia has used against the peaceful citizens of ukraine. in addition to the killings, torture and targeting the civilian population, russia has used the deportation of ukrainian children as a tool of ethnic cleansing from the very beginning of this full-scale attack against a neighbouring country. russian leadership, as well as the regional leaders participating in the forced resettlement schemes, must be held accountable. the arrest warrant issued by the icc against putin and his children’s commissioner are just the tip of the iceberg. everyone responsible should be brought to the justice and the eventual trial against putin must end up with him convicted of the crime of aggression.
mr. chairman, for direct oversight of the abduction of ukrainian children, an arrest warrant was issued by the international criminal court against russian president vladimir putin and his commissioner for children's rights, maria alexeyevna lvov-byelova, a month ago. according to the ukrainian government, the number of children forcibly taken to russia is increasing. we are talking about 16,000 children who have not returned home to their parents and who have been stripped of their nationality. it is very difficult or impossible for ukrainian parents to get their children back. to do that, they need to know exactly where their children are, they need passports and funds. some of the children's camps are located in siberia, where virtually no one can get to them. through better monitoring of ukrainian children crossing the borders of ukraine, we can prevent these unfair practices that are very damaging to the mental health and development of children and can cause irreversible changes to their souls. that is why i want to give my high praise to the work of mykola kuleba, the newly established commission working group and all the ukrainian child rights activists who are rescuing them from the russians or working tirelessly to bring the truth about forced adoptions to light.
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner, the mica and tfr recast mark the end of the wild west era for the unregulated world of crypto-assets. for over a decade, the lack of regulation has resulted in massive losses to many first time investors and provided a safe haven for fraudsters and international criminal networks. mica represents an important and necessary first step to bring the crypto sector under the regulatory oversight. there will be safeguards for investor protection rules against market abuse, anti-money laundering checks on companies and crypto companies will be held liable to the clients. one key concern was that this whole new framework is undermined by foreign companies serving eu customers from outside the eu, in breach of mica standards. we successfully pushed for an eu-wide blacklist of non-compliant entities supported by far reaching supervisory powers. this will add regulatory teeth to mica. one contentious point was related to the climate impact of crypto mining. mica will require now issuers and crypto companies to disclose information on the climate footprint of the crypto they issue and trade, based on a standardised methodology. this is positive but i have to say it is only a first step until we finally manage to better control at international level certain consensus mechanisms that are extremely energy intensive and have become a threat for our climate goals. overall, there is more to be done. from lending and staking, decentralised finance, nfts to the environmental impact of crypto mining, as well as on antitrust and with respect to supervision of crypto groups. the recent collapses in crypto space – ftx, svb, silvergate – showed the urgency of taking additional steps. mica today is a first step, but is not enough. finally, mica will fully apply only in the last quarter of 2024 and i would like to ask the commission, and also the member states, until then to analyse possible transitional measures to protect consumers and prevent abuses. let me now quickly move to the recast of the tfr. today, illicit flows are moved swiftly across the world with a high chance of never being detected. criminals thrive where there is financial secrecy and anonymity. the recast of the tfr will finally oblige crypto-asset service providers to trace every crypto-asset transfer to a verified identity in order to detect and block suspicious transactions and facilitate investigations. parliament has significantly strengthened the original commission proposal. firstly, by ensuring traceability on all crypto transfers from the first euro by eliminating the de minimis threshold of eur 1 000. secondly, transfers between a casp and a self-hosted wallet are captured by the traceability rules. and thirdly, casps are required to apply enhanced due diligence on a risk basis to all transfers with self-hosted wallets, including verification where possible, and mandatory verification in certain cases. i believe that with these measures, the eu will implement the most ambitious travel rule legislation in the world so far, in full compliance with international standards. let me end by thanking my co-rapporteurs and all shadows for the excellent cooperation to ensure a swift conclusion of political negotiations. thanks to commissioner mcguinness as well, and her teams, for the support; to the french presidency, also, for the openness and constructive negotiations. and let me end by thanking my team, valeria cusseddu and jesús hernández, who are the green advisors who i work with, without whom this would not have been possible.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear colleagues, i welcome this debate, and i think it’s really important that we’re having an exchange before we have the vote tomorrow, because as some of you have mentioned, we are ahead of many other jurisdictions in this area. but i want to start by thanking the rapporteurs and to acknowledge the very good cooperation, despite disagreements, to get these files over the line. let me name stefan berger for mica, ernest urtasun and assita kanko for the transfer of funds regulation and, of course, all of the shadow rapporteurs for both files. and i really do want to extend an appreciation for our econ chair, irene tinagli, who has facilitated this work and, of course, the french presidency. we are putting in place comprehensive, tailored rules for crypto-assets in the european union. no one, i think, in this house questions why these rules are absolutely vital for the financial system. and, as we’ve seen in recent months, stringent rules and supervision are very much needed because we’ve had the collapse of projects such as ftx, terra luna, celsius and voyager. we’ve seen many retail investors lured in by false promises or false hopes, losing huge amounts of money. and while the crypto market may be too small to trigger systemic risks, we do know that there are increasing links between crypto markets and traditional financial services. so now to a few elements of our new rules. firstly, mica will bring crypto markets into the regulated space by addressing risks related to consumer protection, market integrity and financial stability. it will also provide legal certainty for market participants that will be able to continue to innovate in a safe environment. secondly, it will introduce rules to prevent market abuse of crypto markets such as market manipulation. and we’re bringing crypto asset service providers into the scope of anti-money laundering rules. third, under mica, crypto-asset service providers like wallet providers or exchangers that serve eu customers will have to be established in the eu and they will be authorised and supervised by national supervisory authorities. mica will allow eu-authorised crypto-asset service providers to passport their services throughout the european union. in return, these operators will be subject to stringent prudential and conduct rules, in addition to rules against insider trading and market manipulation. crypto-asset service providers will also have to disclose the environmental impact of crypto-assets they offer to customers. fourth, the transfer of funds will require all crypto-asset service providers recognised under mica to include information about the sender and beneficiary with crypto-asset transfers. this is in full compliance with the financial action task force international standards on crypto-assets. overall, we’re putting safeguards in place that would prevent companies active on the eu market from engaging in some of the practices that led certain crypto-asset operators to collapse in recent months. after your vote tomorrow, we hope final council approval and the final signature by the co-legislators will soon follow and we hope for publication by the end of june and entry into force in july of 2023. the new rules will apply progressively. yes, markus, i looked for attention from my colleague and i got clarification, thank you. the mica provisions on stablecoins will start to apply in july of 2024. the provisions on issuers of other crypto-assets and crypto-asset service providers will start applying in january of 2025, together with the transfer of funds rules. we’re applying these new rules rather progressively, giving stakeholders time to adapt to them, and it gives us time to adopt the secondary legislation for the implementation of the rules. on a final note, and i think this is very clear to all of us, crypto markets are international and this means that robust rules in the eu are necessary, but other countries need to play their part as well. so i’m very supportive of international regulatory discussions in this area. indeed, in the us, just last week, we did have useful conversations with our us counterparts about the regulation of crypto markets. so thank you for this debate and i look forward now to listening to all of the contributions.
the s&d group is therefore calling for the adoption of a new directive on the protection of the environment against the risks of pollution caused by the use of chemicals. however, crypto-assets also generate very important challenges: supervisory challenges, regulatory challenges, challenges to control the financing of terrorism and other illegal activities and, of course, challenges also for monetary sovereignty itself, for which we will discuss the digital euro proposal later. we welcome this new regulatory framework, the mica, which will allow some of these assets to be channelled. but it's also important to recognize that there are some holes, some gaps, in that regulatory framework that should invite us to a second mica, we could say, in the near future. in any event, as rapporteur for this parliament on the package to improve the prudential treatment and security of our banking sector, i would like to invite the council of the european union, and in particular its swedish presidency, to open up a debate in the tripartite dialogues on this parliament's proposal to introduce the prudential treatment of these crypto-assets in banking regulation. i believe that we have a good opportunity to continue along this regulatory path, which the commission is also inviting us to follow, and to ensure an environment of greater stability which will also allow the innovative advantages of this type of asset to be exploited.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, i welcome the final agreement on the mica and transfer of funds regulation. these texts will guide the sector as we move towards full implementation. what we need now is strong cooperation between the stakeholders, the industry, and the competent authorities, the regulators, the supervisors to ensure that the mica is properly enforced and there is a clear understanding of the new rules on all sides, particularly on licensing requirements. it is paramount, also, that the final tfr requirement and agreement is fully reflected in the ongoing discussions on anti-money laundering rules to ensure that there is legal certainty consistency for the crypto sector. this new regulated status could also help crypto companies to be recognised on the same footing as actors from the traditional financial sector, giving them full access to financial services, including, for instance, bank accounts. if we can implement the rules well, this will also ensure that the eu has a strong voice on the international stage to push for crypto assets globally. the eu is the first large global jurisdiction to have a comprehensive framework in trading assets, and i think we should be proud of it.
president, for the eu, the regulation on markets in crypto assets (mica) is a game changer. until now, crypto companies in the eu had to go to each national regulator if they wanted to serve the eu market. if a company now obtains a mica licence in one country, it will be able to offer the same service throughout the common market. the commission considers that the measures in question are imputable to the state and that the commission has not found any evidence that the measures in question constitute state aid. the ftx debacle of deception and mismanagement showed that this is a much-needed step. we believe that cryptoassets can make an innovative contribution to our economy. the eu must therefore be an attractive place for start-ups to flourish. president, let us continue with legislation that recognizes that the digital transition must be accompanied by freedom of opportunity. i congratulate the rapporteurs on the result they have achieved.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the crypto asset markets are not for the faint of heart. what we've seen in recent years is not just extreme volatility, but market manipulation, fraud, and -- i want to be clear -- disastrous risk management. the ftx crypto-exchange collapse is just one of many examples. regardless of what you think about crypto assets in general, we have to attest that these markets are enjoying a certain popularity. and it is precisely because so many people want to use these markets despite all the turbulence that it is important that we in parliament ensure that market abuse is prevented, that minimum standards for consumer protection are introduced, that convertibility, interchangeability is also guaranteed and that certain market information is available. that's exactly what we're doing with the regulation on crypto-asset markets. we're setting clear rules of the game and transferring elements that have proven themselves in the securities space to the crypto world. we are taking a different, predictable approach to this than other jurisdictions around the globe. this creates legal certainty for providers, and it creates legal certainty for users. this makes the european union a pioneer in the field of crypto regulation. that is why we support this proposal wholeheartedly.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues. in 1637, the netherlands went crazy over tulips. they didn’t know what to use them for, but people believed that their price would go up. then the bubble burst, savings evaporated and investors were left in ruins. that was 1637, but the similarities with crypto are stark. nobody knows what to use them for, but they are the next hot thing. then again, tulips are at least pretty. crypto, on the other hand, not only defaults on the investor, it also pollutes the climate. with the laws we passed today, this week, europe will make crypto better, but our work is far from done. with regulations for crypto companies, we raise the bar, make the market more transparent and protect consumers. however, when one of the biggest crypto companies on earth, ftx, appears to be rotten to its core, i ask myself if it will be enough. with rules against money laundering, we managed to set obligations to detect illicit transfers. yet unhosted wallets still loom in the dark and can escape the eye of the law. moreover, it’s incomprehensible that the crypto sector is still excluded from climate change policy. it pollutes more than belgium, and the question is for what? today, crypto is an empty and dirty promise with many risks. then again, the tulip once seemed the same. now they are part of our culture, the dutch culture at least. with today’s rules, perhaps crypto will achieve the same thing one day.
mr. chairman, crypto-asset trading is experiencing unprecedented growth. the total number of users has long exceeded hundreds of millions, and the market value is estimated at up to two trillion dollars. it keeps growing and growing. what does that mean? what does that mean? that an increasing amount of value and transactions will be realized through these assets. and while traditional assets are properly traded, protected and taxed, we've had a jungle here until now. this is despite the fact that the budgets of almost all the member states of the european union are becoming increasingly leaky. unless rules are clearly established, the current state of affairs will continue to bring a lot of damage and misfortune, tax evasion, market manipulation, crime, but also the unfortunate fate of those who have had faith in crypto assets and lost value to them. i am therefore pleased that the main legal loopholes have been closed by this regulation, which my colleague ondrej kovařik also deserved. but it's just the beginning. we must also continue to pursue related legislation, such as the current exchange of tax information, in a systematic manner. without that, our money will continue to run.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, the digital euro is a potentially transformative project that can have positive consequences for society and the economy as a whole. first, and most importantly, digital gold has to allow us to defend monetary sovereignty in an increasingly digitized world, that is, to keep money as a public good; that's the most important thing right now. moreover, depending on how it is designed, it can be an effective way to have a more effective and also more inclusive payment system. however, it must be said that its added value, economic and social, will depend to a large extent on how it is designed. at this point i have to say that my group is concerned that some vested interests, who are very afraid of the potential disruptive innovation of the digital euro, are pushing to specifically design digital gold so that it doesn't work, so that it doesn't challenge traditional commercial banking business models. so, here what is crucial is how this project is going to be developed. we cannot leave it in the hands of the ecb alone with the technical advice of private banking because this project is everyone's and, if it is everyone's, the objectives, the design choices, the distribution, must be defined through an inclusive and democratic legislative procedure that fully involves this parliament and civil society.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, trust is the most important asset in the financial world. it comes on foot and it goes, as they say, on horseback. in this sense, the euro, along with other classical currencies, has been challenged and chased by so-called cryptos in the last decade. that crypto craze itself was a direct result of the unconventional, let's say, largely irresponsible monetary policies of the 2010s, which greatly fueled distrust in the monetary system. the cryptos became for some the tulip bulbs of our time. for others, it was a fine cover for funding dark practices. this is a matter of principle, and i am not going to go into it in detail. why should the central bank come up with a digital euro? electronic money transfers, we can do that very easily with an app on our mobile phone. make our banks obsolete? attractive to some, but who turn out to be fans of the soviet model. provide an answer to china? you don't fight an authoritarian, dangerous, aggressive regime by copying it. in short, the digital euro does not address a specific need, and certainly not the reason why citizens have turned to cryptos for salvation, namely a shattered confidence in the monetary system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. debt must be reduced and inflation must be tackled. the chinese mortgage of our economic and civil liberties will do the opposite.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, commissioner, i think it’s fair to say that the digital euro has not captured the public’s imagination. it is, however, an important innovation, and it’s one that we must get right. in the digital age, there are some who would have us abandon cash altogether. this must not happen. workers, consumers and small businesses must continue to be allowed to use their own cash – their own money in their own purse or pocket. in this digital age, we must protect the idea of money as a public good. huge corporations cannot be allowed to take over the use of our money. we wouldn’t allow the privatisation of cash, therefore we cannot allow the privatisation of its digital equivalent. i urge the commission and ecb to not think of the digital euro as a purely defensive innovation, but to grasp its full potential. the banking sector has had enough public support down through the years, so for once let’s put consumers, citizens and workers first and use the digital euro to empower them.
president, with the digital euro, the ecb is targeting the private market. it's the digital alternative to cash. at present, only the commercial banks are spending money on the turnaround, and so now the european central bank is joining them. the citizen will have an account with the ecb, as in the past with the post offices, which were also owned by the state. and because the ecb cannot go bankrupt, citizens can be sure that their money is safe. it's a guarantee against major financial shocks. but it also gives the government an awful lot of power to control and coerce the citizenry. the main concern of the citizen is that the government may in the future restrict what the citizen spends his money on, such as meat products and fuels. or that we get some kind of social credit system like in canada, where your account gets blocked if you're critical of the government. therefore, the digital euro should meet the following requirements: purchases must not be traceable to the product, the balance must also be directly withdrawable as cash and the balance must not be programmable. this must be legally recorded.
mr president, bad money drives out good. this law – gresham’s law – is empirical, yet the european central bank believes otherwise: that good money, digital euro backed by the ecb, will drive out bad money backed by unstable private banks. and as a result, the ecb wants to impose restrictions to limit how much one can hold – up to eur 3 000 – and where, with private actors. to be clear, the digital euro makes absolute sense in a digitalised economy, no doubt. it’s also important to maintain monetary sovereignty to prevent private currencies – bad money like libra – from taking over. yet i have strong doubts about the restrictions. first because the digital euro should be viable, and why use something you can hardly hold? and second, a digital euro should compete with bank deposits, encouraging banks, for example, to let consumers benefit from recent interest rate hikes. and of course this raises worries about bank funding, no doubt. but the digital euro doesn’t introduce these problems. it merely highlights the fluidity of deposits in a digital age. and the silicon valley bank was merely its first victim. so i fully understand the ecb’s wish to prioritise stability initially, but the restrictions should weaken over time, exactly as the bank of england proposes. dear colleagues, this debate is important. the digital euro is a political project, indeed, not a technocratic one. and so the project of the digital euro needs political backing. so let the commission put all the options on the table to have a real political debate on the digital euro.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, we witness a clear trend towards the digitalisation of finance, and that includes the central bank money. this trend will provide a number of opportunities for citizens and businesses, but does not come without risk. i expect all these aspects should be considered when discussing the digital euro. in order for this digital euro to be a helpful and successful project we need to be transparent in our goals, but also in our communication. for citizens, the key to an attractive digital euro is a guarantee of privacy and security in their spending. we also must take into account that cash still plays a prominent role in our society, and a digital euro cannot be a substitute for it, but rather simply to complement it. cash is here to stay, even with the digital euro. furthermore, better engagement with financial intermediaries is a key, as they will need time to develop relevant technical solutions and products. i look forward to the proposals from the commission and the conclusions from the european central bank on the digital euro, where we expect to see some more concrete version of the concept.
mr president, the sexual orientation of a person is not determined by the way he is born, nor by the colour of his hair or eyes. yet, there are over 60 countries in the world where homosexuality is a crime in itself. recently, uganda passed a similar law. for something as obvious as love between two people, gays and lesbians face life imprisonment or even the death penalty. that's something that must be absolutely unacceptable to all of us. such laws must be condemned unequivocally. basic human rights must apply to everyone around the world.
mr. chairman, women in afghanistan are denied the opportunity to participate in social life and to pursue higher education. tomorrow we will vote on the protest resolution. robert wood, the us deputy ambassador to the un, recently said: "the taliban cannot expect to become a legitimate member of the international community without respecting the rights of all people in afghanistan, especially the human rights and fundamental freedoms of women and girls". but it was the united states of america that brought the muslim fanatics to power, supplying the taliban with weapons to take over afghanistan. with the help of the united states, the taliban have introduced public executions, floggings, stoning. the united states army was recently expelled from afghanistan. even governments in europe are unable to guarantee human rights to women in no-go muslim communities where sharia law is practiced. we can vote anything, but we cannot fix the consequences of the bad policies of the united states and the european union.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, i would like to start by thanking all the institutions who participated in the exercise for their cooperation and the information they provided. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their valuable cooperation in the discharge reports. the year 2021 remained a challenging one, with the pandemic still requiring crisis response and adoption of working conditions. i am glad that all the other institutions, as they are called, managed to achieve high budget implementation, maintain and ensure full business continuity, switch to digital solutions, secure their network, improve remote working conditions and carry on recruitments. i also recognise the challenges those institutions were facing, mostly when it comes to lack of sufficient resources to deliver fully on their respective missions. for the luxembourg-based institutions, the additional challenge remains the correlation coefficient, which hampers their attractiveness in comparison to the private sector. as this year’s rapporteur, i highlighted a number of recommendations for the future, especially concerning: performance under the modified working regime; sustainability and environmental impact of the institutions and long-term ecological strategies; digitalisation and cybersecurity, particularly given the high increase in use of it tools and remote working conditions; ethical framework and transparency, particularly with regard to prevention of harassment and conflict of interests; and gender and geographical balance. this year was the first discharge of the european public prosecutor’s office. although the eppo has become fully operational only in the middle of 2021, they have already demonstrated a successful track record of effectiveness. the eppo’s mission is crucial to protect the eu’s budget and recover defrauded funds. what negatively affects its operation is the fact that five member states still refuse to participate in its activities, namely hungary, poland, sweden, denmark and ireland. i note with satisfaction the improved cooperation with the european court of auditors and welcome the efforts of the new management aimed at improving the internal processes, strengthening the code of conduct and improving stakeholder relations. eca is a key partner for the european parliament. i welcome the efforts by the committee of the regions in strengthening their code of conduct, promoting their work and achievement in the field of sustainability and green agenda. the committee of the regions achieved the best results in terms of sustainability and switching to environmentally friendly infrastructure. i also want to highlight the important role of the ombudsman, court of justice and data protection supervisor that they play in ensuring transparency and accountability, even more during the digital transition. in particular, i welcome their increased attention to the field of cybersecurity and their efforts to use and promote decentralised, free and open-source social network alternatives to the very large online platforms for communicating their activities. i note the internal reforms adopted by the european economic and social committee, and i am satisfied with the improved communication and cooperation with the european parliament. however, my report stresses the need for culture reforms in the institution and more timely reactions to staff compliance and well-being. it is not acceptable that requests for assistance by staff members take more than three-and-a-half years to be handled. as we have been currently living in the new reality of war taking place at our borders and diplomatic efforts play a crucial role, it is important to recognise the work done by the european external action service. we need to evaluate the situation of the many delegations, with particular emphasis on the budget effectiveness regarding security and communication. finally, i deeply regret that yet again, the council and the european council refused to participate in the discharge procedure. i also tabled a new amendment highlighting the recent scandal of extensive use of private jets, even for short travels, and all the negative implications this phenomenon presents. i hope all the political groups will be able to support my recommendations for the sound management of the so-called other institutions.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, thank you all for your contributions in this debate. i am glad to hear that we mostly share the same goal to ensure the sound management of the eu institutions. we strive to make them more accountable and transparent to the public. as said earlier, 2021 remained a challenging year where the pandemic was still requiring crisis responses and adaptations of working conditions. i am glad to note that all of the so-called nine other institutions managed to achieve high budget implementation, maintain and ensure full business continuity, switch to digital solutions, secure their networks, improve remote working conditions and carry on recruitments. therefore, i encourage the shadow rapporteurs to adopt the discharges of all the other institutions, except for the council and the european council who refuses to participate in the discharge process. for the year to come, i would like to encourage our newest institution, the european public prosecutor’s office, to continue its important work on investigating, prosecuting and bringing to judgment crimes against the eu budget in order to protect eu’s financial interests and recover defrauded funds. i believe this new institution is crucial and should be entrusted with larger resources to fulfil a broader mandate, especially in the light of the current russian invasion of ukraine.
madam president, madam commissioner, absent council, every third woman in czechia has experience with violence, often committed by their partners, and the convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence is a commitment to concrete actions to prevent violence and to improve the situation of victims. but it is also a symbol, a symbol proving that member states, europe, all of us, are committed to take violence against women seriously. now, what are we hearing from some national governments and some members of the european parliament instead? the opposite. hatred. hatred against minorities, for instance, as we could hear from one of the previous speakers. also lies. lies about what the convention is, that it is against the tradition of easter, or a tool to erase biological differences between men and women that we are told. it is nonsense. let’s be fair. these are excuses and really bad excuses. we owe the victims the ratification of the convention and we need to ratify it immediately, both as member states and as the union.
madam president, honored colleagues, honored colleagues, it's been a month and a day since the largest jewish massacre since world war ii. hamas terrorists, supported by the ayatollahs of iran, have killed, tortured and kidnapped civilians, women, children, and elderly people. this is not a romantic fight for freedom. these are disgusting, barbaric, terrorist acts. israel has a right to defend itself. not only the right, it has a duty to defend its citizens. hamas, islamic jihad and similar terrorist groups must be destroyed. without it, there will be no peace or a long-term solution to the middle east situation. and let's face it. we need to end the policy of appeasement towards iran. it's time to impose the toughest sanctions on the biggest sponsor of terrorism in the middle east. the situation is no less serious on the streets of european metropolises. anti-semitism, whether it is from the right, the left or the islamists, must not have any place in europe. we must not allow hamas and iran to destroy our society.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you, honourable members of the european parliament, it is good to see the overall consensus on the importance of energy transition and a competitive and resilient energy system for european energy security. even if the trends are positive, a lot remains to be done to reach our 2030 targets. and in the coming months, we will use the process to upgrade national energy and climate plans so that national plans together tap into the significantly higher targets, both on renewables and energy efficiency. i also look forward to working together with the european parliament and finalising still open key legislative files, such as the hydrogen and gas package, epbd, remit, methane and electricity market design, and by doing so, there will be best-suited solutions at our disposal. there is one more thing we have to do together still, under this current mandate: adopt the first list of projects of common interest and projects of mutual interest following the adoption of the revised regulation on the trans-european energy networks. by doing so, we can accelerate the key cross-border electricity infrastructure projects. these projects will be crucial to integrating increasing volumes of renewables and advancing energy system integration. once again, i want to thank you for the very valuable discussion today. i was very pleased that we had this opportunity to exchange.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the energy union should guarantee greater choice and lower prices for eu consumers, but since russia invaded ukraine, the old continent has been plagued by a huge energy crisis. energy prices have jumped dramatically for both businesses and ordinary consumers. in the light of these problems, the european institutions have not helped to solve the above problems. on the contrary, the brussels authorities are increasingly actively and persistently pushing for restrictions on nuclear energy, for example. i firmly support the thesis that the problem with nuclear power is its politicization. nuclear power is green and safe. it needs to be developed instead of closed. if we keep wasting our time on pointless discussions, we risk deepening the energy problem.
in writing. the european commission issues an annual report on the state of the energy union, the last such document in its cycle. this is therefore an appropriate opportunity for brussels to assess its performance in the field of european energy policy. three elements of the present situation are worth highlighting. on the one hand, the commission's catastrophic sanctions policy has caused a serious energy crisis in europe. the worst was avoided thanks to the sacrifices of citizens and the decisive action of european governments. however, as a long-term consequence, the european economy has been in a serious crisis, we have been less competitive, and forecasts are stagnating or recession. the responsibility for this is borne by brussels. on the other hand, security of supply and solidarity are among the principles of the energy union. nevertheless, bulgaria is facing an unprecedented special tax on natural gas transit through its territory, which poses a serious security of supply risk in south-eastern europe. this hostile move weakens the energy union, which the commission should act immediately against. finally, the energy union's primary task would be to promote affordable energy supply. however, instead, brussels, coordinated with the dollar, launched an attack on the hungarian recycling curve. the bureaucrats and their left-wing comrades would release the market prices of energy to the public, paying the price of their failed policies. hungarian people can also express their views during the national consultation. overall, this is unacceptable. that is why change is needed in brussels above all else. we hope that this will happen by june next year.
it's in writing. the annual state of the energy union report is a great opportunity to take a closer look at how the union is implementing energy policies based on the principles of security of supply, solidarity and progressive sectoral integration. this year's report is particularly relevant as it comes in the context of the ongoing war in ukraine, the threats to energy supply and raw material prices caused by russian aggression, and the ongoing economic and social consequences of the covid-19 pandemic. russia's aggression against ukraine and the ensuing energy crisis has accelerated the eu's diversification of energy supplies. the commission's report talks about a significant reduction in gas supplies from russia and a greater diversification of supplies. the union has turned to more reliable and reliable suppliers of blue raw material, such as norway and the united states. the report rightly notes the efforts of the member states to store gas. the regulation adopted by parliament and the council under the accelerated procedure in 2022 has mobilised member states to store gas, i.e. to prepare for a heating period when demand for that fuel increases. however, in times of energy crisis and high energy and raw material prices, which negatively affect citizens and industry, it should not be forgotten that the union should not only favour certain energy sources, especially renewable energy. it should be noted that all energy sources that reduce emissions should be supported.
the energy union has demonstrated its importance and resilience in ensuring security of supply and price control in a context of a strong threat posed by the suspension of supplies from russia. it has also been resisting strongly the attacks of those who want to take advantage of the war and inflationary context to reverse the purpose of modernising the energy system and the goal of decarbonising and combating climate change. the regulatory and legislative framework is now more suited to the challenges of a green and inclusive transition. there is no reason why we should not pursue the political, economic, technological and environmental objectives of the european ecological pact with determination. the construction of the single market requires, however, a determined and solidary acceleration in the construction of the necessary interconnections which have been and are increasingly the achilles' heel of the energy union. furthermore, the evolution of technological maturity and monitoring instruments creates the conditions for a revision of the energy union governance regulation which takes into account new options and fosters a broad public debate and commitment to the future involving all european societies.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the report by alexander vondra on behalf of the committee on science, public health and food safety on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the type-approval of mechanical vehicles and engines with regard to their emissions and battery life (euro 7) (com(2022) 0586 - c9-0375/2022 - 2022/0365(cod)) (a9-0298/2023).
rapporteur. – mr president, ladies and gentlemen, almost a year has passed since the commission published its euro 7 proposal. unlike previous regulations, euro 7 encompasses a broad range of vehicles, all within a single legal framework. for the first time, this legislation also contains rules affecting electric vehicles. no matter which politician you ask, they will all claim to be committed to a sustainable automotive industry. however, the crucial difference is whether the rules being pushed for euro 7 are realistic. i support the commission’s goal of producing cleaner cars and improving the quality of the air. but we must also act with due care and caution, not least because the sector accounts for more than 9 % of gdp, 26 % of manufacturing and 24 % of exports in the country i know best. the commission’s original proposal would have a hugely negative impact on consumers and car manufacturers – an impact which is disproportionate to its positive environmental effects. firstly, it would divert resources from decarbonisation by requiring substantial investment in soon-to-be-obsolete internal combustion engine technology. secondly, there are serious questions over the feasibility of the commission-recommended standards, especially in view of short lead times. thirdly, the cost implications are a major cause of concern, as they would have exceeded the estimates in the proposal’s impact assessment. this in turn would have led to higher costs for consumers that are already grappling with the challenges of rising costs of living. it was therefore imperative to rework the commission text and establish a better balance between the environmental objectives and the concerns of consumers and manufacturers. after four months of negotiations, i believe that the mandate adopted in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety largely achieves that. first, testing parameters are not a revolution as the commission proposed, but an evolution from the euro 6 parameters, which ensures that the new emission standards remain economically and technologically feasible. secondly, under these testing conditions, the report is able to correspond with the levels proposed by the commission for pollutant emissions for passenger cars, and proposes additional three categories for light commercial vehicles based on their weight. thirdly, the adopted text also proposes tougher limits for exhaust emissions from the buses and heavy-duty vehicles, including levels set for the real driving emissions. forced to avoid legal and investor uncertainties, specific implementation timeframes have been included that, in turn, are linked to the entry into force of all relevant secondary legislation. once all the relevant secondary legislation is complete, new types of fully duty vehicles would have 24 months, and new types of heavy-duty vehicles 48 months, to comply. all existing types of the light-duty vehicles will have 36 months, and heavy-duty vehicles 60 months, to ensure compliance. the sixth report also better aligns eu methodologies and limits for brake particle emission and tyre abrasion rates with unece standards, as well as asking for more ambitious yet achievable goals for electric vehicles’ battery-durability standards. generally, i believe the committee report represents our best opportunity at securing an interinstitutional agreement ahead of the elections. why? because the council has raised many comparable concerns over the cost, timing and technical feasibility. for that reason, we can already see the outline of possible landing space for the compromise between the co-legislators. it is therefore essential that plenary endorse my committee report.
member of the commission. – mr president, rapporteur vondra, shadow rapporteurs, honourable members, i thank you all for the progress made on this important and, i would say, complex file. a file that has been subject to significant debate in this house, but also in the commission and among stakeholders because it touches upon essential aspects of our daily lives. the commission’s proposal relied on solid evidence and rigorous assessments, and we made our proposal to respect three main principles, which i trust we can all agree with. one is improving air quality to lower the number of premature deaths in the eu – 70 000 people in europe die prematurely every year due to air pollution from cars, vans, buses and trucks. secondly, putting clean vehicles on the market at affordable prices for our citizens, so that citizens across the eu can actually afford new vehicles and not only second-hand or third-hand vehicles, which often pollute more, as we all know. and thirdly, preserving the competitiveness of our automotive industry, and when i speak about automotive industry, i don’t only mean large manufacturers, i mean the entire ecosystem, including component manufacturers and aftermarket services. and we also need to take into account the broader transformation of the automotive industry. in fact, this parliament has established earlier this year a very clear pathway to zero-emission vehicles. back in november 2022, the commission’s proposal aimed to strike the right balance between these challenging objectives. we proposed emission limits, achievable with cost-effective solutions, and technology which is already available. we proposed future-proof elements that will remain valid for electric vehicles, brakes, tyres, battery durability. we proposed using available digital technologies like sensors to improve compliance over the lifetime of a vehicle. i recognise and welcome that the overall architecture and some key blocks of our proposal can be found in the parliament’s position so far. first, the need to tackle exhaust emissions both from light duty- and from heavy duty vehicles. second, the need to start regulating non-exhaust emissions and to do so based on the work carried out at un level. global harmonisation of the rules is the best way forward and euro 7 will have a pivotal role here. and third, the need for rules on battery durability, lifetime requirements and on-board monitoring to ensure high performance over the life of a vehicle. having said this, there are of course areas where the parliament’s position diverges from the commission’s. and here timing is important, both from an environmental and an economic perspective. with envi’s report euro 7 requirements will apply about three years later than in the commission proposal. this would surely give vehicle manufacturers more lead time to adapt to changes. however, it would also give less time to recoup their investment before moving to 100% zero-emission vehicles. postponing the application would also reduce environmental and health benefits. another challenging aspect is the proposed approach to secondary legislation. we are fully committed to be as fast as possible, but the parliament’s proposal would multiply the number of secondary acts, sometimes even overlapping between delegated and implementing acts. and setting strict deadlines of only 12 months could also impede our consultation process and create legal risks. i also have some questions, or at least doubts, concerning some of the proposed changes regarding brake emissions for hybrid electric vehicles or battery durability requirements. and finally, i am aware, of course, that the council has taken a different position, notably regarding emission limits, but i won’t comment any further here today, as this will be discussed in the trilogues. so to conclude, i want to stress again how encouraging it is to see this house’s commitment on this file. it is needed so that we can collectively provide regulatory certainty to companies and protection to our citizens, in particular our most vulnerable ones. so in this spirit, i look forward to the debate today and to the upcoming trilogue negotiations.
the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 of the financial regulation. mr president, i believe that the opinion of the transport committee balances the need to reduce emissions and the need to ensure the competitiveness of european industry, ensuring, of course, jobs and at the same time, consumer mobility. i think we need to take this balance into account, because both requirements, needs, are absolutely equally important. the result of the environment committee reflects very much the result of the transport committee and i appreciate what the rapporteur in the envi committee has done and i believe that this result can be improved by the amendments to the plenary, in particular with regard to co2-neutral fuels. i think that this way we can actually reduce emissions, because we can ensure that the cars that are now on european roads reduce emissions. i therefore support the envi result and at the same time a part of the plenary amendments.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. i wish for more realism in this debate. we all want better air quality for our citizens, affordable mobility for citizens and businesses and a competitive industry in the european union. in order to make progress in all areas and not to burden anyone with fees, we need a healthy middle ground for the euro-7 standard. we have already worked on these proposals and this proposal is being put to the vote here today. it improves air quality. tighter limits will result in euro-7 cars emitting 60% less fine dust and trucks 60% less nitrogen oxides compared to euro 6. mobility remains affordable. stringent limit values and new testing procedures require substantial investment but provide comparatively little additional benefit to air quality. if we maintain the best-performing euro-6 testing procedures and only moderately tighten the limits, we will prevent high investments in expensive technology that ultimately pays the consumer. we are ensuring the competitiveness of european industry. it was not until the beginning of this year that the burner-out from 2035 was decided in the eu. we cannot force the automotive industry to invest billions in a new technology. climate change is only with industry, not against it. air quality and maintaining competitiveness and jobs in the eu are our priorities. the present proposal brings the necessary balance. what's missing is a pass to technology neutrality. co2-neutral fuels help protect the climate. and the means by which we achieve climate protection or better air in the end cannot be prescribed. we need the competition. a ban on certain technology is never effective. politicians are not the best engineers. i didn't find one, not even with the greens, even though i've been looking for a long time. that is why we have made changes to ensure that the continuation of the operation of fuel-efficient cars powered by carbon-neutral fuels is possible even after 2035. i would like to say that the commission has already made a number of proposals. so my appeal to everyone here is to support this balanced approach to better air, affordable mobility and a globally competitive industry.
for the s&d group. mr president, every year thousands of europeans die from poor air quality in the transport sector. we have just heard that and we know it from the world health organization. this is the biggest threat to our health in the eu, so tackling air pollution is a common responsibility or it should be a common political responsibility. a responsibility for council and national politicians and for us at european level. but that responsibility has been denied by a majority in this house. the euro 7 agreement simply does not provide for air pollution. i think it is shameful that the european parliament is relieving itself of responsibility for the health of the citizens and it would be quite wrong to call the proposal we have here in this house euro 7. it is rather close to the existing euro 6 proposal. we need to balance health and industry and competitiveness. but the commission had already ensured that there was a balance. and with the agreement of the european parliament, we will completely remove the balance that existed. from renew to id, they've ruined the balance. they have watered down the commission's proposals. together with the automotive industry, they have reduced emissions ambitions, weakened testing and delayed implementation. i think that this is a really, really bad proposal that will not help the citizens or ensure health. i think it is embarrassing and i and my group will vote against this proposal. we do not think it is ambitious, we do not think it delivers what it should, and therefore there is only one thing to say no to this proposal and i wish the commission would also go a little harder and dare to criticize the proposal here today. the commission must also be quite disappointed that its own proposal has been watered down so markedly.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, sometimes you have the feeling that the euro 7 debate was more about the car industry than it is about air quality, although this proposal is there to improve air quality – mainly in our cities, where road transport is still one of the biggest polluters in europe, and where 70 000 people die prematurely because of bad air quality, because of road transport. that’s what we’re trying to address here. people are saying, of course, ‘we are trying here, we are moving to electric vehicles and that’s why we don’t need to do this.’ well, the last standards that we are looking at now, euro 6, they were formed in 2009, fifteen years ago, and the standards put in place in 2009 already could be met by technologies existing in 2009. what we are doing now is basically reinstalling euro 6 standards and calling it euro 7, but are not delivering any improvement on air quality, and at the same time claiming that our citizens will be improving. is it needed when we are moving to electric? well, be aware that any combustion engine that is still being sold until 2035 for cars will be on european roads until 2050. for trucks, we don’t even propose the end of the combustion engine, so they will be running on our streets even longer. is it impossible? even the commission’s medium scenario showed the best cost-benefit ratio. the commission already lowered their proposal, lowered the ambition in that proposal. we even further lower it. so anyone is saying that this is impossible to meet should read the impact assessment. certainly the conservatives, who always love impact assessments. i think i have a final question to the commission. if this is being adopted and indeed it is euro 6, can you please hurry up the negotiations on the green claims, because this will be the best example of a greenwashing label.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all want cars that respect the environment, but we must be careful. europe is known worldwide for producing low-emission, high-quality cars, and the automotive industry generates almost 8% of the eu's gdp. the european union's climate objectives must go hand in hand with the effort required of car and auto component manufacturers, and the proposal that has been drawn up is certainly the right balance between the two needs. it is clear that the automotive industry is already facing unprecedented challenges related to the consequences of war, such as limited access to raw materials, rising energy prices or inflationary pressures, and it is precisely in times of crisis like these that sectors such as the automotive sector must make a difference and must do so competitively on the international stage, as well as ensure affordable mobility for our citizens. we should therefore proceed with concrete proposals which achieve the right objectives, rather than proceed with ideological measures which hardly lead to results.
mr president, my colleagues, i must tell you my anger. seven years ago, when we left the dieselgate, we were all in this halfway house. we said never again. never again a garbage car, never again cheating under the complicit eyes of the eu member states, we have taken the measure of the health scandal, so that the european parliament's committee of inquiry concluded that it was a victory for us legislators, through a historic message to carmakers, a message that said: we are watching you and you will fix your mistakes. that's what they were told. and since then, nothing. what happened seven years ago? nothing, or very little. we should have switched to euro 7 immediately. we're not there yet. what we are going to vote on today is a lightweight standard, rejected by the greek calendars. we are signing a hundred million garbage trucks by 2050 and an air quality directive that will never be met. you won't find any support on my part for such a mess. you will explain to europeans who will suffocate with this air and to the 300,000 victims of air pollution each year.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, standards, always standards! the european union has only that word in its mouth. we're always setting more and more standards to ruin the lives of our citizens. you want to pass a new standard on car pollution, the famous euro 7 standard. but it is important that everyone understands the viciousness behind this text. the european union recently imposed the switch to electricity, making us believe that it was a miracle solution to save the planet. once again, the citizens will have to pay the addition. what do you propose to people living outside the big cities, who have no public transportation and no choice but to take their car to work? nothing, absolutely nothing. what is it? worse, you despise them because you make foolish decisions that will profoundly affect their lives. once again, these decisions are taken by technocrats in brussels who are hidden in their ivory towers and who are unaware of the realities of our citizens. behind your so-called environmental objectives lies a desire to end our freedoms, starting with freedom of movement. but know that in a democracy, it is the people who decide and you will soon pay the political price for this contempt of the people. and it's the 9th of june.
the commission has also been asked to take a decision on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers' rights and the protection of workers' rights. in my opinion, it is crucial to find the right balance between industry and our climate goals. while, of course, paying attention to the well-being of our citizens. i would say that reasonable deadlines for enforcing these rules give the industry time to adapt without compromising on our environmental goals. also, our compliance with un regulations on particulate emissions, brakes and tire brakes shows our responsibility and what we call leadership. this legislative proposal puts us at the forefront of the fight against climate change, but it also carries the burden of responsibility for its precise implementation and enforcement. of course, we all want to drive cleaner cars, we all want cleaner trucks, cleaner buses. we all know that. we also know that the epp representatives' club is a big supporter of the green transition, but we also want to do so in a way that takes into account the real needs of our citizens. let's not forget that everyone in that first proposal simply couldn't afford new cars -- much more expensive cars, but we also have to take into account the number of jobs and what we've heard about the gdp financial cookie that the industry is bringing. so, colleagues and colleagues, i'm done. stability, security and predictability -- that's what we have to provide to our citizens and our industry -- not populism.
mr president, dear colleagues, more than 14 million europeans are employed by our automotive industry. that is 6.1% of the total employment in the european union and 7% of our gdp. but this is also a vital industry undergoing transformation. they already have to heavily invest in european electric motors, european batteries and european innovations. this is why i am glad that our proposal is more realistic, and it will not put additional burdens during this transformation. for this, i want to thank our rapporteur, mr vondra. mr president, a lot is at stake. the european automotive sector is at the top of the global competition today and it must remain there. that’s the reason why we must vote in favour of this proposal.
colleagues, i have a logical task for you. at the end of last year, the european commission presented a package called euro 7 - new environmental standards for cars. it requires billions of dollars in investment in gasoline and diesel cars to make them cleaner. three months later, earlier this year, this parliament approved a total ban on the sale of petrol and diesel cars. the question is, why did we do this? do we know what we're doing or are we destroying an industry that's creating 13 million jobs? 13 million that's more than the population of belgium. three-quarters of everything in your home is delivered by vans or trucks with petrol or diesel engines. three quarters. besides covid, besides the war in ukraine, besides inflation, besides the high fuel prices, what else do we want to impose on the heads of this industry? no wonder we're so catastrophically behind the united states of america. fifteen years ago, our economy was a trillion dollars larger than the united states. today, the american market is $5 trillion bigger than ours. do you know the top 20 largest companies in europe, in the world, excuse me, how many are european? two, just two. that's because we don't need more regulation. we need a free market and re-industrialisation. and if we can't introduce euro 8, euro 9 and euro 10 by the end of this term.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, colleagues, the draft emission standards for euro 7 cars should never have seen the light of day. what the commission put forward a year ago was very bad, unrealistic and barely enforceable. its environmental impact would be controversial and the impact on car manufacturers and users would be clearly negative: slowing innovation, stopping small car production, mass layoffs by manufacturers, raising the price of new cars by tens of thousands of crowns. and those are just the most important ones. a number of measures have been mitigated by the european parliament here. we are aiming to remain essentially the euro 6 standard in force today and the same, and this is also essential, in terms of vehicle testing. however, the current proposal does not include the possibility of further use of so-called co2 neutral fuels, if you want a fuel of synthetic or biological origin. and i think he should. these fuels not only contribute to reducing emissions but also enable future use of combustion engine technology. they are essential in maintaining the principle of technological neutrality, and i would therefore call for support for amendments in this spirit in tomorrow's vote.
rapporteur. – madam president, thank you very much. i think we had a useful debate, and i want to thank everybody for joining us in this debate. i want to thank, of course, all those associated committees – itre, tran and imco – for their work, which certainly helped to craft my report and to reach a rational balanced proposal. i want to thank also the shadows, in particular jens gieseke and susana solís, for the excellent cooperation. i want also to appreciate that the commission is waking up to a more realistic attitude compared with the original proposal. yes, it comes under attack from the left. i have two points on that. first, you argue with public health in the big cities. i have a clear medicine solution. you should invest much more in public transportation – like we did in prague – and then you would not have this kind of problem. don’t ask the poorer countries to give up their automobiles. just try to watch the highway connecting frankfurt, prague, bratislava. it’s one light commercial after another, transporting the old, under euro 6, cars to the east. and this is a disaster for the environment. so that’s the reason why we selected this rational approach. and even you – i read your amendments – moved in the direction of my report. so you recognise that this commission original proposal was not the best one. nevertheless, the reality is that you continue to press for unworkable high emission limits and new testing parameters, which will require significant cost. thus i cannot support that because it would eliminate the smaller cars from the fleets immediately. and it’s not just the most vulnerable people. it’s also the lower half of society. the left, in the past, was defending those people and now i don’t see this. so i think therefore it’s essential to endorse, and i hope you endorse, my report.
rapporteur. – thank you very much to colleagues for endorsing my report for backing a measured approach to emission limits and testing procedures under euro 7 and, therefore, in accordance with rule 59, i kindly request that the report be referred back to the envi committee for interinstitutional meetings.
the european commission has been late but has recalled that without industry and innovation there will be no decarbonisation. yes, we appreciate that. this proposal contains some useful things: maybe less bureaucracy, speeding up the authorization of selected investments, fictional consent. but the most important thing is that we're still halfway down the road: full support for nuclear power. without it, there will be no decarbonisation in continental europe. sunscreens and windmills are not enough. when i came to strasbourg today, even in this weather, there was no sunshine and only half the windmills were turning. the council has taken a good step forward with this proposal. the european parliament's position is unfortunately weaker and the greens and the social democrats still want to weaken it as usual. friends, let's finally get the courage and make it clear: without the core, we will not decarbonise. we're supposed to fully support the core.
the rapporteur of the committee on agriculture. mr president, commissioner, if we accept the proposal as you have proposed, it would threaten to turn carbon storage into a business for a few speculators who will buy land not to produce food in a more economical way but to stop producing food and to focus fully on profitable permit trading. we don't want to do that. we have, as you know, little experience with this, and our companies and our citizens are paying billions in energy, goods and services for this experiment. for foods that break price records, we really can't afford that kind of experiment. i am therefore pleased that we have been able to find consensus across this house and convince our colleagues that carbon farming should be a reasonable complement to the current management and production of food. greening is simply a cost, and the business chain is definitely not willing to pay farmers for it. it doesn't happen here often, but tomorrow we'll have a chance to pass a proposal that makes sense. involvement in the carbon economy in food production will be voluntary and motivational, not mandated and enforced. success!
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, thank you very much, i was stuck in the traffic. paní předsedající, já to řeknu natvrdo. zpráva, kterou připravovala kolegyně sarah wienerová, je špatná. penalizuje členské státy, které už roky poctivě snižují objem používaných pesticidů, znemožňuje jim definovat si citlivé oblasti, kde se pesticidy budou využívat jen omezeně, po svém, dle místních podmínek, protože je chce definovat od stolu, celoevropsky a pro všechny stejně. a v neposlední řadě zemědělcům neposkytuje žádnou alternativu, jen zákazy a příkazy. a všichni víme, jak se levice, a zvláště zelení stavějí k povolování nových šlechtitelských metod. jsme přesvědčeni o tom, že naše zemědělství si zaslouží méně zeleného fanatismu a více realismu. ne pro zemědělství samotné, ale zejména pro spotřebitele. neuváženou regulací ohrožujeme cenovou dostupnost potravin, a pokud neprojdou klíčové pozměňovací návrhy výboru pro zemědělství a rozvoj venkova týkající se cílů, naši podporu tento návrh nezíská.
mr president, commissioner, following the ban on combustion engines for euro 7 passenger cars, there are further critical regulations coming up, this time for trucks and buses. and this is another blow to the automotive industry in europe and to consumer wallets. the same mistakes are repeated here. the proposal does not respect technological neutrality at all, limits or omits some of the available solutions, and therefore it is necessary to support proposals calling for the inclusion of alternative fuels, co2 neutral fuels, whether of synthetic or biological origin. without them, there is a real risk that road transport in any form will cease to be available. the battery truck won't really go far today. and worse, the proposal also includes a total ban on non-emission-free buses in urban transport after 2030. this is a total foul. we're committed to sustainability, but we're also complicating the development of public transportation for cities. as a result, public transport, especially in small towns, will either be significantly discounted or not run at all. many cities cannot afford such costs. once the restrictions on passenger cars are put in place, public transportation will cease and pedestrians will be allowed to walk
mr president, dear colleagues, we are standing at the doorstep of another historic landmark: the union of more than 30 member states. we want to welcome ukraine, moldova, north macedonia, montenegro and other candidate countries soon. we want to welcome them to a strong, sovereign and a more democratic union. to the union that cannot be blackmailed by viktor orbán or some other putin ally. to the union where decisions are made by negotiating and finding compromises, not by blocking europe’s activities and expecting bribes and gifts. it is absolutely clear that europe is paralysed. for instance, in common security and foreign policies or tax policies. that is why we need to do reforms, to abandon unanimity voting in the council in those areas where europe is paralysed. otherwise, europe is not going to play a role in the world. it is rather going to be ridiculous. if you allow me a couple more seconds, i would like to answer mr madison’s question. we are elected representatives, elected to represent the european citizens. if you are unable to do this job properly, you should resign.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are debating today is built on two key ideas. first, that space is a strategic arena which is vital for our security and well-being. secondly, that the increased competition from the authoritarian states, like russia or china, necessitates that the eu and its member states share resources and capabilities to address security in outer space. it also encourages investment, which cultivates a competitive european space industry, and calls for the continuation of enhanced cooperation between nato and the eu in the areas of shared interest. all objectives are achieved through utilising existing interinstitutional frameworks or agencies. therefore, ecr supports this report as the threats to space-based communication capabilities are growing, and the operational capability of the member states to address these threats is, for now, far too low.
mr president, dear colleagues, this is an important anniversary, particularly with the new enlargement impetus. because of that, we should assess the state of the union. for too long, the eu has neglected the internal attacks on its main values. we should demand the same governance and rule of law standards from existing members as we set for the candidates. especially now, when the enlargement process seems to have got a new breath, we must hold aspiring members to the highest standards, but also create methods to enforce those standards on current members across the union. if a country has to fulfil copenhagen criteria to join us and can then wipe themselves with them the other day, we will never be a union – a functioning one, at least. we must establish post-accession compliance measures, going beyond what is currently in place to actually ensure the functioning of the european community. otherwise, we promise our neighbours instability, whether we accept them or not.
mr president, commissioner, absent council, colleagues, this is at least the third time in a very short period of time we are addressing this topic in the plenary, sadly. and the reason is illegal wiretapping and spying on journalists, opposition politicians and activists in a number of member states, as you know. we repeatedly asked the commission to act to propose a legislation that will protect citizens from spying. we asked for measures to prevent rogue governments from abusing spyware. and still: no answers. thank you for the elaboration on the existing legal framework, but that is not the answer that we were asking for. it is crystal clear that the european parliament is the only institution fighting for the right to privacy of all europeans, be it our fight against spyware or against breaking into an encryption or against remote biometric identification in publicly accessible spaces. so i will finish my speech with the same words as i did already two times in this part: please act.
the european union's institutions often promote principles which they themselves actively prevent from applying. iran cannot be isolated and at the same time prevent the consequences of its isolation. amnesty international's report describes forms of suppression of iranian women's rights to face and personal freedom without cover-up, but at the same time criticises france for suppressing cover-up. france is doing the right thing, because concealment is imposed on women by education and sanctions in the islamic community. women don't usually want to be invisible. in the entire report, amnesty international never mentioned the key word islam. that's because it's being criticized in islamic countries and is being imported into europe at the same time. the west would be better off with more self-reflection and less hypocrisy and a sense of superiority.
author. – madam president, dear colleagues, dear georgian friends, first, allow me to express my condolences to tamaz ginturi’s beloved – my thoughts are with you. i do not make differences between one forcefully taken innocent life or thousands. it should be met with an equally strong reaction. when russian troops started to shoot our ukrainian neighbours, we were quick to react and sanction. there is another occupied country in our neighbourhood whose citizens get murdered and abducted by russia. is georgia further? yes. does it matter? no. i urge the council to add to the next sanction package or to a new one, those responsible for the death of tamaz and for the suffering of georgians. kremlin wants them to live in fear, to give up their european path. give them courage, and putin will lose.
mr president, the european union seems to want to fail because it sets itself unattainable goals. violence can be curtailed, but not eradicated. there are two causes of violence against women. on the one hand, the aggressiveness of which is primarily responsible for hormones, on the other hand, is associated behaviour and primitivism due to inadequate education. some individuals, however, are uneducated and untouchable, even severely punished. if the stated ambition was lower, realistic, reducing violence against women, then it should be about educating people to respect each other and not abuse physical superiority. furthermore, it would be essential to limit the influx of muslim immigrants with their ideology of encouraging the enforcement of women's submission and obedience by force, the practice of female circumcision and the so-called killings in honor of disobedient daughters and sisters. no-go zones are out of the hands of the police. unless we fundamentally curb migration from islamic countries and ensure security and proper education, the proclamation of the international day against violence against women is hypocrisy.
mr president, on this international day, when we remember violence against women and we acknowledge that it does exist, we should think of all those women and young girls in war-torn conflict areas who are victims of unspeakable torture and violence. violence against women in all its forms is a weapon of war, and is being used as we speak today as a weapon. here in europe, one in three women has experienced physical and/or sexual violence. many of it goes unreported due to issues such as silence, stigma and the reluctance to share, because of its reception in our societies. it is crucial that we break barriers to ensure effective intervention, and the istanbul convention was designed to do that. it, with all its requirements, will need to be implemented across the european union – and all member states need to recognise that. the convention recognises all forms of violence, psychological, stalking, physical, sexual, including rape and sexual harassment. we need to provide support for victims of violence, and help them to engage with our legal services to share their stories, and we thank all those who have come forward, who have been brave. they have empowered others. they have also shone a light on the issues surrounding violence against women, particularly in the area of rape and sexual assault. so, today, we think of all those women who are victims of violence and assault in our communities, and we call on all member states to ratify the istanbul convention.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are reporting and deepening the violence against women every day, a sex that is still seen as a weak sex that can be dominated. unfortunately, we see how the numbers don't tend to decrease. we must therefore take decisive action because, unfortunately, the awareness-raising and information initiatives that must be maintained are no longer sufficient. violence against women grows like a silent epidemic that can mature to death. we are giving europe strict rules that apply to all, so that the crime of stalking is recognised in every member state, where rape is recognised as a european crime and there are no mitigators. we no longer justify the aggressive attitudes of some men simply because they are connected to their culture. we put the victims on a condition that they can always report, regardless of their social status. i want to highlight a situation that is too often silenced: we protect women with disabilities because the numbers tell us that they are twice as discriminated against in every respect as a woman without a disability. and we are ending in every country of the european union the inhumane forced sterilization of women with disabilities. "woman, submit, woman obey me, woman, do not make me angry, woman if you do not do as i say, woman if you report me i will kill you". women must be free from fear, not only in europe but everywhere in the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my country has been shaken these days by the death of giulia cecchettin, who was murdered by her ex-boyfriend. to find the perpetrator of a femicide, you don't have to look far. unfortunately, like julia, there is a woman who dies every three days at the hands of a husband, a partner, an ex. julia cecchettin could be one of us, she could be our daughter, our sister, our friend. not enough laws, not enough hardship. what we need is a real educational revolution that scares away that patriarchal and misogynist culture that continues to kill women. and we must first educate our sons, because femicide is a problem of men, not girls, not our daughters. men who can't take no for an answer. we must therefore introduce as a compulsory subject the education of affectivity, of mutual respect. access to emotional sex education must be a right of our children to preserve their health, well-being and, in some cases, their lives. girls, you rebelled, because freedom is won by raising your voice, destroying stereotypes, the retrograde culture that continues to kill. boys, join your friends, your partners, your wives, your sisters, because violence against women kills you too.
mr. president, even in the 21st century, violence against women and domestic violence is pervasive and the crisis is making matters worse. in the european union, one in three women is affected by violence. one in 10 women has been sexually assaulted, and one in 20 women has been raped. gender-based violence is also on the internet. every other woman met him there. almost every other woman has also experienced psychological violence from a partner. this has a very negative effect on the physical and mental health not only of the victim but also of the environment. unfortunately, we also live in a world where we cannot feel 100% safe, not only when we are outside after dark, but also when we are in our own homes. the most common perpetrators of sexual violence are victims close to them. the european parliament has adopted a very ambitious position on the directive on the fight against domestic violence and violence against women. it's going to be a tough fight, but i believe that eventually a good compromise will be found that includes both the definition of rape and important points for victims, like the tracking system for perpetrators and legal aid.
in the name of the s&d faction. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. these crises have cost us a lot. but most of all, the crises have cost us money, a lot of money, and contributed to inequality. so while there are now many losers in these crises, there are also some winners, for example energy companies. while some people did not know, and still do not know, how to heat enough, energy companies have made huge profits. so you've benefited from the crisis. those who benefit from crises must also give something back to the society that is in crisis. that's done by a surplus tax, a windfall tax. the european people's party is now trying to denounce this excess tax. in short, they don't want this fair tax. we social democrats, and so many other members here, need to say that surplus taxes are important, surplus taxes are right, they are good, they are fair. the crisis has manifested and expanded existing inequalities. because now that 1 percent of the population owns almost half of the world's wealth, we have to talk about a sick system. but the good news is, we have medicine against it, and that's the reich tax. a tax on the empire relieves the symptoms of injustice. a wealth tax is good for each and every one of us. i'm sure of that. because there's enough money in the world. it must be distributed more fairly. in addition, just before the cop, i would also like to mention the ban on private jets. it sounds like a symbol, but it's actually a lot more. forty percent of these private jets fly only passengers, so they actually fly without passengers, just back and forth to pick up passengers. the richest 10 percent are responsible for up to 40 times more emissions than the poorest 10 percent. so where is justice, please? we can also deal with that with taxes. private jets like that, which are supposed to be banned.
the recent crisis has shown us that without tax measures they cannot be met. almost all governments have taken such measures. unfortunately, our czech government is late and bad, and that's why we're in economic decline and we have one of the highest inflation rates. the poorest households, the handicapped and the medium-sized enterprises are the most affected. each member state has the right to set its own tax mix and according to its needs. it is therefore legitimate that differences in response to the crisis between member states still exist and will exist. every government must have the right to take the measures that best benefit its citizens. union rules should therefore be used to enable member states to rapidly implement the necessary measures and subsequently to quickly repeal them as soon as necessary. we just need clear rules. not that we'll have to wait and ask the european commission in crisis what we can and cannot do and that states will be measured by every other meter.
mr. chairman, the critical raw materials bill is undoubtedly a proposal that deserves our support. if we want the transformation under the green deal to have at least a chance of success, i'll raise my hand for it, too. i'll leave you a few notes. first, just as a house doesn't build from the roof, the legislative proposal should make sense. this law should have been here a long time ago, not until after we passed the battery regulation, which suddenly made us realize that meeting all the goals required would be no fun. second, it's obviously fine that we don't want to go from one fossil fuel dependency to another, but setting detailed prescriptive targets for 2030 is more like the economic exercises of comrades in the former soviet bloc than the rules of a confident actor who doesn't want to be the laughingstock of others. but the important thing is that this authorization is accelerated, and there is no time left but to pray that the people around you will benefit from it.
madam speaker, there are six months until the election. in recent years, we have appealed countless times to representatives of national governments to secure elections. it's not worth it. we now have six months to try to implement at least some of the measures the commission is coming up with to protect them. don't get me wrong, i'm glad the package of democracy is finally on the table. a proposal to strengthen civil society, a proposal to protect elections, these are extremely important steps. but i am saddened that they are clearly not important enough for some eu officials who have made sure that they are just recommendations, not enforcement legislation. many of them probably feel that they are not affected by disinformation or election attacks. their reasoning is obvious. the attacks are mostly directed against liberal and pro-european forces. what they'd care if they weren't alone in the corner. let me tell you something: when these anti-democratic alliances get into the country trusting the system as such, you're going down with it. it's too late for that.
mr. chairman, we all know that this latest escalation of the conflict in the middle east began with a disgusting terrorist attack by hamas on unarmed israeli civilians. some of them were brutally murdered, some were previously brutally tortured, women were raped and some were taken hostage for the considerable support of the people of gaza. the relativisation of these heinous crimes or the attempt to dissolve them in a context, which unfortunately is also happening on the ground of the european parliament, is something absolutely reprehensible. we all wish the conflict would end, but it cannot be a ceasefire that will only allow hamas to rearm. a permanent truce is only possible if all remaining hostages are released unconditionally, hamas surrenders and the gaza strip is completely demilitarized. it's the only way to protect the civilian population in israel. it's the only way to protect the civilian population in the gaza strip.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, many thanks for all your interventions. the commission takes good note of them. i think that, in conclusion, i can summarise that it is clear that we all share the need to ensure strong ethical behaviour in the institutions. i think that also what was heard here today several times was that we were all shocked. what happened a year ago was a reputational blow not only to this house, but to the eu as such. i heard from many, many voices that there is something rotten in brussels, not even in strasbourg. so the people think that this is the problem of the eu in general. and we have to be extremely careful because trust in democracy and in the institutions goes down in almost all our member states. and it also applies to the eu and eu institutions. we have to be careful because we are six months ahead of the elections, and we should accelerate all our actions to convince the people that we are trustworthy and that there should be a vote cast in the european elections. what i hear from many, many citizens – i am in very frequent contact with people who have nothing in common with politics or with the eu – what i hear in the czech pubs, and not only in the czech pubs, what the people are very furious about is corruption and undeserved, unexplainable privileges of the politicians. and i think that this is something we have to address. we will try to address it by the interinstitutional ethics body. i will come to it in a minute because i feel the duty to reply to some of the questions also on that. but what i heard in this debate, what we need is more transparency and a strong rulebook – not in the sense of leaves of paper. madam bischoff said it clearly: what matters is the implementation, whether the rules are taken seriously and implemented in real life. we need prudent application of our interinstitutional transparency register. we need to apply in full the ethical and disciplinary rules in individual institutions. of course, for the european parliament, it’s important to pay sufficient or strong attention to president metsola’s plan. what we have in the field of transparency in our legislation: yesterday we adopted the defence of democracy package. this is about transparency. the regulation on political advertising, which will be partly already in force before the european elections. this is mainly about transparency, so that the people are not manipulated by hidden methods online. we proposed an anti-corruption package. it’s hanging in the legislative process. so i think that we are doing a lot of things. we can say that qatargate was the failure of several individuals, with a question mark. it has to be investigated. it’s the judge who has to say the last word. but besides the individuals, i think that we are doing the right thing to try to fill the loopholes in the system. and next to the systemic measures, there is also the individual positioning of each of us. and some of you also mentioned that ethical standards and ethical behaviour starts with each of us individually. on the ethics body, as mr freund knows, we are progressing quite well. we would like to set up the institution well before the elections. we seriously deal with the european parliament’s request to do more. we take seriously the resolution from the summer, where you insist on inclusion of more competences than what we proposed as the commission. i insist that the body must not duplicate competences. we need a legally sound and functional body, bringing necessary added value. and efficiency of the body is one of the parameters we have to deal with. so we have an agreement now that we will work in parallel on the main road for the ethics body in line with what commission proposed, but at the same time try to design the additional competences for the institutions which might like to use the ethics body for something more, which is mainly the case of the european parliament. so the work is in full swing now. the last comment is to react to one of the speakers, madam silvia sardone. i am not used to spreading rumours further on when i react on something, but i have to react. what she said – it’s a pity she’s not here – about how much eu money has supported terrorism? zero. i have to say here: eu money is not supporting terrorists, islamists nor extremists. it has to be said very clearly. there were cases in the past when we found out that some money went to islamist groups. we did not disclose it ex-ante, through the ex-ante control of the projects. we found it out during the project and, believe me, it was a matter of hours when we stopped the funding and we requested the money to be returned back to the european budget. so i wanted to react to that because we have to use a strong voice when we hear very clear and verifiable lies about the eu and the work we are doing.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president, i will be brief. i want to thank the honourable members who have intervened in this debate. i've taken note of your remarks. as vice-president jourová pointed out, the commission has put forward a number of proposals which address the concerns of the honourable members to ensure transparency and accountability in the work of the institutions. all the proposals put forward by the commission are being worked on in the council. we have reached agreements on some of them and we are currently in dialogue with parliament, as i have said before on the ethics body. i would just like to point out that the council is ready to work with this house, the commission and all the institutions of the union to ensure transparency in the work of the institutions.
the debate is closed.
the next item on the agenda is the report by maria manuel leitão-marques on behalf of the legal committee on the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition of decisions and the adoption of public documents in matters of parental responsibility and on the introduction of a european certificate of parental responsibility (com(2022) 0695 c9-0002/2023 2022/0402(cns)) (a9-0368/2023).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i am pleased to be here today for this debate on the commission’s proposal relating to the recognition of parenthood between eu member states. let me start by thanking our rapporteur in this debate in parliament. the rapporteur was able to explain the content of our proposal. so thanks for that, maria-manuel leitão-marques. and i want to thank, of course, of the rapporteur for such a support, but i want to thank all the members of the parliament involved in the process to support also our proposal. i would also like to express my gratitude for the work done within a demanding timeline, so as to make it possible for the parliament to adopt its opinion this year. thanks for that. and this proposal is an essential contribution to the protection of the rights of children, and to the construction of a union of equality. today, union law on free movement already requires member states to recognise the parenthood established in another member state when it comes to the rights deriving from union law, such as the right to travel within the union or to reside in another member state. however, union law does not yet require member states to recognise the parenthood, the parenthood established in another member state to protect the rights deriving from national law. this gap may lead to situations in which children’s fundamental rights to an identity or children’s right to inheritance or maintenance are not ensured in a cross-border situation within the european union. as a result, families may be forced to start proceedings to have the parenthood recognised in another member states, but these proceedings are often lengthy and costly and have uncertain reserves. ultimately, families may decide not to exercise their right to free movement for fear that the link of parenthood will not be recognised for all purposes in another member state. the proposed regulation on the recognition of parenthood between member states aims to remedy such situations by ensuring the continuity of parenthood between member states. the proposal does so by harmonising the member states rules on private international law, but without affecting the member states substantive family law. therefore, under the proposal, member states would continue to adopt their own rules on family law. however, they would also need to recognise the parenthood of a child as established in another member state, irrespective of how the child was conceived or born, and irrespective of the type of family. the commission welcomes the draft report, which supports the overall aim of the proposal to strengthen the rights of children in cross-border situations by facilitating the recognition of their parenthood between member states. the commission is also pleased to see that the draft report maintains all the key elements of the proposal. the commission notes that on some elements, the report goes further than the proposal, in particular on the digitalisation, on the application of the public policy exception and on the internal competence of the member states authorities to deal with parenthood matters. the draft report also proposes measures to bridge language barriers, expedite the circulation of the european certificate of parenthood, and facilitate the application of the proposal, and the commission takes good note of these elements. discussions on this file are ongoing in the council, and the commission will continue to provide the necessary support so that the legislative process on this proposal can progress speedily. but i thank you for your attention. i will take note, of course, of your remarks during this important debate. for many families, many families, and certainly for many children.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – mr president, it is clear that my family and other rainbow families clearly do not conform to the conservative ideals of some of the far right in europe. but our families exist and we are here to stay. therefore, the question is just whether we as families, and notably our children, will have the legal rights that they are entitled to. for us, it is clear that we have to move on now. it is a shame that, in 2023, children of different family backgrounds cannot be entitled to equal legal protections. the ep report and the endorsement, hopefully, in this plenary, of mutual recognition of parenthood is a step in the right direction and i thank the rapporteur for her work. now, member states, you have to do your part. it is not acceptable that, in 2023, rainbow families do not enjoy freedom of movement. it is now up to the council to do your work and to agree on this regulation.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality is the european parliament's representative. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. if you're a mother, you're a mother. if you're a father, you're a father. that's the most obvious thing in the whole world. and that is why this should and must apply in every member state of the european union. it is not for the governments of member states to say to existing families: no, you do not fit our expectations here, so you cannot have it on paper with us. that's absurd when the family is in front of the office and they're asking for a birth certificate. we want to give legal protection to all children, really to all children, and to their parents throughout the european union. i therefore call on the council to help us and to introduce the european parenthood certificate with us.
mr president, we are talking here today about human rights which must be held very high and protected in europe. the mutual recognition of parental responsibility throughout the union is a very important issue with this proposal. we are fortunate to have different kinds of parenting in our free world and we are happy that we allow that free way of thinking and that children are born from it. partners can choose their partner, but children cannot choose their parents. that is why it is of the utmost importance that we as the european union stand up for the rights of children. all children are equal and have the same human rights, the same basic rights, and we must fight for that. as long as we do that, it's fine. there are now some colleagues who say: this means that maternity is recognised throughout the european union. no, there is nothing of that in this report, and it is a pity that we are now making this a political debate, because it is, after all, about the rights of the child. sometimes, if these rights of the child are not recognised because parental rights are not recognised, then those parents have to go to court, to the european court of justice. and they always get it right. only, it's incredibly expensive and takes a tremendous amount of time. it is therefore good that we are now going to implement this mutual recognition throughout europe, it is good that this is done quickly and it is good that the rights of children are protected.
for the s&d group mr. president, i would like to thank reporter marques for the excellent work he has done on such a very important document. a family from one country must remain a family in all the member states of the european union. the european court of human rights has repeatedly upheld the state's legal obligation to protect the relationship between children and the child, and if the state fails to do so, it is a violation of the child's rights to privacy and family life. the rights of children must be protected first and foremost, regardless of the origin of the family, who the parents are, whether the child is a surrogate. the fact is that the child is already in such a family, and the efforts of some colleagues to remove the rule of surrogacy will have negative consequences, especially for those children who have not chosen the way they will be born and raised. they are with their parents in their families and this regulation can ensure that their family is family throughout the european union. that must be our main reason. therefore, i ask you to reject any proposal that does not protect the best interests of the child.
mr president, commissioner, absent council, freedom of movement and the right to reside in any state in the union is one of the main fundaments that the european union has been built on. but there are limits threatening the most vulnerable ones in our society, the children. the recognition of parenthood, sadly, still varies among different member states. that means that children of same-sex couples lose their rights while they move with their families to eu member states which do not recognise their rights for parents. we hear from conservatives often: we must protect kids. i am replying to you: now is the moment to prove that you really want to protect children, and vote in favour. the same message go to the absent member states: prove to the citizens that protection of children’s rights is also your priority as much as ours.
madam speaker, prime minister fica's plan to abolish the elite prosecutor's office in a rush of action is revenge for the prosecution of himself and his party colleagues by smer and close friends of the oligarchs. this followed their involvement in the murder of corruption journalist jan kuciak and his partner martina kušnírová. as a czech citizen, i am terrified that slovakia, our closest neighbor, is moving away from democracy and the rule of law. we cannot allow our neighbouring countries to become the base of the mafia and corruption that will spread to us or to other european countries. and as a european citizen, i am very concerned that this proposed reform prevents infringements of the european budget from being punishable in slovakia. european money cannot remain unprotected and cannot open the door to further fraud and corruption. that is why i, like the other czech and slovenian pirates, will focus on ensuring that this strange reform does not happen and that the european public prosecutor's office in slovakia is given full access to operate and prosecute offences against european financial interests. (the speaker agreed to answer the question raised by raising the blue card.)
answer to the question posed by raising the blue card. i would like to point out that a very important part of the rule of law is that all crimes are properly investigated and prosecuted, and my first and foremost concern in this situation is that president fico is sure that this will work in slovakia because he is violating it.
for the verts/ale group. madam chairman, first of all, let me thank you, because as chairman of the tibetan interest group, i feel a special gratitude for having succeeded in convincing you all to discuss this subject. i believe this is very important because these atrocities committed by the chinese authorities in tibet are disrupting the very core of tibetan identity and are a danger to the future of tibetans as a nation for the foreseeable future. one million children are involuntarily separated from their parents from the age of four to attend public boarding schools. in these schools, the government takes your children away, forces them to speak chinese, forget their education, reject their own culture and the religion of their ancestors. china is thus rearing tibetan children to be loyal citizens loyal to the chinese communist party. this policy is aimed at destroying the country's rich and unique culture, which is very different from the chinese one, which is also rated as the least free in the world. so i'd like to ask you one thing. please impose sanctions on those chinese officials who designed the boarding school program and demand unrestricted access to tibet for foreign journalists to report on what's happening in the country.
