chair of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – madam president, i think it’s great that we have such a female line up at this ceremony. dear president, dear minister, dear vice-president, dear colleagues, 30 years of the eu’s single market means 30 years of living, working and studying in other eu member states. it means more prosperity and opportunities for our businesses. market integration has led to european integration, to citizens growing closer together. and i’m from a generation that can’t remember how it was before. and now i could talk to you about how much gdp growth the internal market has brought us, about trade flows, about increasing competitiveness. and all of this is certainly very, very important. but i rather want to talk about what the single market means to us as citizens. i know some people are convinced that you cannot fall in love with the internal market, and jacques delors certainly was one of them. but i have to say, similarly to margrethe, i get a lot of excited feedback from citizens when i talk to them about our current internal market legislation. with the digital services act and the digital markets act, we created democratic rules for the online world. as the first continent worldwide with legislation on circular economy and the right to repair, we are making sustainability the norm in our market. and then – this is really a project to fall in love with – there will be very soon only one common charger in the eu. can you have a nicer symbol of the eu internal market? these examples show that in the past 30 years, the task of creating a common market has evolved from completing the market with its four freedoms – goods, services, capital and people – to using it more and more to achieve our common political goals: strategic autonomy; a new and unique european model of the digital world; high consumer standards; and, very importantly, the protection of our planet and the climate. and this is also the story that we have to tell to citizens today. indeed, no one will fall in love with the abstract idea of economic integration. but citizens want high consumer protection standards, a healthy economy, environmental protection. and i think the single market can deliver if we do it in the right way. so if we look back, was everything shiny and rosy in the last years? certainly not. several crises have marked the past 30 years and we are right in the middle of one of them. but with each crisis, the single market has evolved. it has proven to be part of the solution. let me look at that a bit and see what we can learn. i think, to get support from our eu citizens, the single market must protect them. huge protests all over europe were the consequence of people believing that the commission went too far in the market integration with the services directive. this parliament had changed the proposal back in 2006 – made it more balanced. we in this house have successfully fought for a stronger social dimension of the single market in the past years. and i believe we must continue to do so. brexit, with the uk not only leaving the eu but also the single market, was probably one of the biggest crises for all of us. and, sadly enough, the current performance of the uk economy and the mounting challenges that businesses and citizens face make the rest of the eu even more aware of the benefits of the single market and how dangerous it is to throw everything overboard light-heartedly. during the pandemic, supply chains got heavily disrupted, adding to citizens’ and businesses’ hardships. eu internal borders closed up. we managed to get on our feet again, thanks to the single market, its benefits, its principles protecting european solidarity, common procurement of vaccines, authorising trucks to cross borders to prevent shortages. a common approach to rebuilding the economy. it became obvious once more: we are stronger together. and, dear colleagues, allow me a last point. when it comes to the challenges we are facing right now, i think once again focusing on european cooperation and leveraging the strength of the single market would bring us forward. the climate crisis is looming. the past seven years have been the hottest in the recorded history. and, on the other hand, european companies are not only facing high energy prices, but also fierce global competition to lead the future’s global green economy. let me be very clear. we cannot prioritise competitiveness over solving the climate crisis. solutions have to go hand in hand. we need to massively accelerate climate measures and to finance the green transition, which in turn will help european companies. but all of this cannot be at the expense of the single market, with member states outspending each other. investing in the single market is the solution, enabling it to be a life jacket for all of us.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, we are celebrating the 30—year anniversary of the single market. i already looked back at the achievements in my first speech, and now i think it is really important that we also look forward in this debate, that we look at the next 30 years. and we also did this with the hearing and the resolution in the imco committee. so, thanks to all the colleagues who also contributed to our debates in our committee to the resolution that we are voting on tomorrow. i want to mention three points where i think we need an update of the single market, where we need to develop it further to really cope with the current challenges. first, we have to speed up the green transition. in this regard, sustainable products have to be the norm on our single market. if all product groups end up complying with minimum sustainability standards, we are making the sustainable choice a default one for the consumers, and this is what they are asking for. and this is why the european commission needs to deliver on the promised right to repair initiative: to save money, to save energy, to protect our resources, to make our internal market a proper green market. second, digitisation in the eu must be human—centred, based on our high democratic, data protection and sustainability standards. the digital markets act and the digital services act are ground—breaking. digital services are shaping our lives, our democracy. but there is so much left to do to ensure that the rights and freedoms applying offline also apply online. and third, and a lot of colleagues have already mentioned this today, we need better enforcement to make legislation a reality and leverage the single market’s power also globally. european businesses deserve a level playing field with our high standards applied to imports and, in turn, european businesses will profit from european standards that will become a global yardstick. already now, the single market’s high social and environmental, but also digital, standards spill over and shape globalisation. i am happy that we are taking this time today to debate the future of our single market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. on birthdays, people like to reflect on the past and make plans for the future. and today, on the 30th anniversary of the single market, we have rightly said that it is the heart of the european union. and that is why i have three wishes for my birthday, above all, so that this will continue in the future: fair competition, economic cooperation and social opportunities. fair competition means above all that made in europe must be created by attractive ideas and good location conditions such as affordable electricity prices, but not by protectionism and a spiral of subsidies. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. we need to complete the digital single market so that good ideas can grow into businesses, and we also need to strengthen the single market from the outside through free trade, especially with democratic partners. because social opportunities need smart laws that advance digitization and progress. we need to unleash technological progress, and for that, we need the brightest minds. we need mobility, and we also need skilled immigration. a strong internal market is the best engine for a thriving economy, good jobs and opportunities for every european. commissioner vestager, minister roswall, i hope that i can count on you.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not the commission estimates that €35 to €70 billion is lost annually in the eu through tax avoidance by companies, partly through the misuse of letterbox companies. postal companies are often used by multinational corporations and individuals to shift profits and assets to low-tax areas, thereby avoiding or evading taxes. the eu-wide introduction of minimum substance rules creates a filter of indicators to identify and prosecute potential tax evaders and money laundering firms. however, i would like to remind you that ukrainian president zelensky is the head of an international network of 14 offshore and letterbox companies based in the caribbean and cyprus. the pandora papers revealed that selensky received $41 million from oligarch ihor kolomoisky through this web of offshore companies. to this day, maltex multicapital corporation, incorporated in the virgin islands, has been paying untaxed dividends to ceo olena selenska, selenskiy's wife. we support all appropriate measures to combat money laundering and tax fraud. but the measures must also be implemented and the eu's sympathizers must not be excluded, even those who are victims of the war in ukraine. the eu must avoid the impression that there are good and bad money launderers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2020 the european union's exports of waste to third countries amounted to 32.7 million tonnes, or 16% of the world's trade in waste. turkey is by far the largest destination for eu waste exports, receiving around 13,7 million tonnes in 2020. the majority of waste exported outside the eu consists of ferrous and non-ferrous scrap metal, as well as waste paper, plastic, textiles and glass. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in the same way as the waste from other industries. the decarbonisation and energy saving measures already affecting the industry will, inter alia, lead to a significant increase in scrap requirements in the coming years: for every tonne of recycled scrap steel, a saving of 1,5 tonnes of co2 is achieved, and for scrap stainless steel, this saving is even higher, amounting to approximately 5 tonnes of co2. i wonder whether it is still appropriate to call and classify waste these materials which have become so valuable and strategic to fuel a virtuous cycle in the steel industry. in conclusion, it is therefore entirely acceptable to adopt stricter rules on waste shipments, without forgetting the importance of monitoring and anti-circumvention measures, in order not to weaken those rules, and this is precisely the meaning of the proposed amendments.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, more circular economy and more differentiated collection: this is the path that europe is on today. as the five star movement, we are proud to contribute. two main principles underpin this new regulation: the first is to prohibit the transport between member states of all waste destined for disposal. this requires that local authorities have to operate separate collection effectively. of course, we could have dared to do more, i think, with the same ban applied in regional areas within the same country. the ban on exports to countries, especially the poorest ones, is a good thing. with more traceability, we fight against the lawless and the mafia. we must not forget that in many places the disposal of waste is controlled by the criminal underworld. i think i have to draw attention to the fact that some of our paper mills could be penalized if such recycling is not considered to be outside the scope of waste. today, however, we take it a step further. the circular economy is now a reality.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the problem of waste shipment may not be particularly attractive, but it is very necessary if we are to achieve our objectives: namely, a better circular economy, in which waste becomes a new resource, namely, shorter distances and more efficiency in waste treatment, by finally also realizing the internal market for waste and giving it the much-needed digitization boost, and finally, more safety in waste exports, because we propose that the declining plant must be independently certified. the position taken by a large majority in the committee is of course always accompanied by compromises. but i think that overall we have set a good starting point for more investment in the recycling industry and by setting recycling rates we have set the right incentives for building stable secondary commodity markets. this revision of the regulation will give a new and positive impetus to the circular economy. i would like to thank my colleague, mrs pernille weiss, very warmly and specifically for the good conduct of the negotiations and i look forward to hearing what improvements the council, which is unfortunately not here, has in mind for this dossier.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. eu commissioner ylva johansson has promised to deport more rejected asylum seekers. at present, he said, only 23 percent. in fact, less than half, and in germany a few thousand a year, or at most 1 or 2 percent. the commission and the pseudo-democratic conference on the future of europe want to abolish the concept of illegal migration. according to the studies of jan van de beek and the danish social democratic government, each african or muslim migrant costs a modern welfare state almost 700 000 euros for a lifetime. even if every rejected asylum seeker were deported, there would still be 1.5 times as many migrants left because they get asylum despite entering illegally and are just as expensive. we cannot take in tens of millions of migrants without the welfare state collapsing. immanuel kant said, "what we ought to do, we must be able to do". only merkel said: we do it because we should.
i have to say, madam president, mr. prime minister kristersson, you are assuming the presidency of the council at an extremely tense time. the eu may seem to be coming through the winter better than we all feared, but it is not yet time to take a breather. we need a presidency of the council in the coming months which is prepared to leap boldly over its shadow and over national ideologies. we need a council presidency that is clearly committed to european cooperation and delivers on that. and to be quite honest, we greens have serious doubts whether you will succeed. their alliance with the toleration of a far-right and anti-eu party, the sweden democrats, is destroying a lot of trust throughout europe. the good reputation of the swedish governments in europe has been destroyed. it is now up to you to prove to us that you are in the democratic tradition of your predecessors and are delivering concretely for europe, for the common european cause. we cannot afford a council presidency dependent on swedish right-wing extremists in a crisis. we need a council presidency that is unequivocally behind the european project. we need a council presidency that is clearly on the side of the rule of law, minorities and the strengthening of the european institutions. we need a council presidency which is also prepared to take new steps. we are pleased that you have made competition and industrial policy a priority. we are also pleased that you mention innovative swedish companies like northvolt. but listen to what these companies are saying. these companies are calling for an active european industrial policy, they are calling for a european fund with joint strategic investments in green technologies and in settlements. clear the way for this! do not take the role that sweden usually plays in financial matters, simply blocking everything. we must jump over our shadow and be ready to put new concepts on the table.
mr president, we already had a report about video games from the cult committee, which focused on the benefits, on the creativity, on the jobs that we have, on the big support that we want to send the sector. this report focused very much on the importance of the protection of consumers, and that is very, very important. on the one hand, it’s about online communities, to fight against sexism, racism, homophobia, transphobia, mobbing of each sort. and we can use filters for that, but i think it’s not really worth it, it’s something about a change of mind, change of community, where we need to approach. on the other hand, we have the big importance of corporate ideas. they have models of games where they try to improve the focus on loot boxes, where they try to make it as opaque as possible when it comes to in-game currencies and weird monetisation. so some developers have become really more like shell players with better graphics and that is gambling. gambling is dangerous and we need to avoid gambling, especially when it comes to minors. therefore, dear commissioner, as many have said before me, ban all loot boxes, ban all gambling and ban everything that has gambling-like mechanics because it is dangerous for our citizens.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. after two years of corona, in which the wearing of masks and curfews prevented many infections, we are now seeing a massive increase in respiratory diseases, and the health systems of the member states are once again being put to the test. now i often hear that the mask mandate is the reason why the citizens' immune systems have been weakened. this is a misconception: the immune system is not a muscle that needs to be trained, and i'm not just saying that, but this is the statement of epidemiologists and immunologists around the world. in addition, many infants and young children who have never worn a mask are affected. but in fact, there is growing evidence and studies that corona infections can permanently impair the immune system. there are a lot of studies around the world on this, and more are being done every day. i therefore ask the commission: when will you finally launch a programme to study the long-term effects of corona infections - both long covid and immune damage - and to promote research into possible therapies?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. well, pandemics are useful for learning skills that you're not supposed to. the citizens have just gone through an odyssey, also fired from brussels: with lockdowns deprived of their basic rights, dust masks, which were still said by the eu health authority ecdc in 2021 to have no added value they were ordered anyway , and a vaccination, which, according to pfizer representative ms. small in the corona special committee, does not prevent infections at best. so now there's a wave of respiratory and rsv in children, an infection that a lot of children have been through. i also recall the wave of the 2018/2019 season, when there was also talk of overloading the clinics. so what's different today? like medical staff who didn't want to be forced to take experimental vaccines and now they're just gone. or the vaccinated, who are often chronically ill. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. yes, there are some missing over 300 life-saving drugs, like cancer drugs, because production has been outsourced to low-cost countries - and not just since yesterday. but the bottom line is that the eu commission's corona task force has spent billions of taxpayer dollars over the last few years to ensure that mrna vaccines can be 100% produced in the eu. because that, and only that, was the criterion for deciding which vaccines to approve and buy. you're not solving problems, you're part of the problem.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it will surprise you to hear me say that we do not need a little europe everywhere, but we need a strong europe in the right places. and the right places are precisely where the supply of vital things is concerned, for example with medicines, or where the strategic alignment of things is concerned. and we should not be surprised, because in the past we have not asked the question of security of supply at all. everyone always bought from the cheapest seller. but, ladies and gentlemen, we are the largest single market in the world. everybody got it, but we didn't. if each member state simply buys the cheapest, we need not be surprised if there are only two or three manufacturers of certain medicines in the world. we need to evolve, we need a concept of joint procurement, we need diversification of supply chains, we also need more production in europe, we need joint purchasing. and as i said at the beginning, we don't need a little bit of europe everywhere, but we need a very strong europe when it comes to the important stuff, and this is like one of the very important points here: we need a little less member state and a little more europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. so now we have a massive increase in respiratory disease and at the same time a shortage of medicines. a colleague asked earlier whether the european commission had learned nothing from the pandemic. and the answer is no. the eu commission has really learned nothing. i must say, as always, i'm sorry. the eu commission always promises that it alone can solve the big problems facing the eu. but when it comes to such problems, it is clear again and again that the european commission is unprepared, unorganised and, unfortunately, often clueless. it was like covid and the mindless organization of vaccinations. it's the same with the ukraine war, it's the same with inflation, and it's the same with the energy crisis. so now we're at respiratory disease. one of the eu's great promises has always been to promote the well-being of its citizens, not just prosperity. let 's see . in ever-widening areas, it does nothing for the well-being of citizens but undermines their wealth and now their physical health. commissioner, if the european commission does not start to fulfil its promises at some point, then you have to ask yourself: why are you still part of this establishment?
the commission has already done so. the eurobarometer shows that 93% of eu citizens are very concerned about this rising cost of living, and they feel it every day. but what the eurobarometer also tells us is that 94% of people want to live, work, do business and eat in an environment that is sustainable. this is certainly true of organic farming. the prices of organic products - this is very exciting - have risen significantly less than those of conventional agricultural products in times of crisis. in other words, organic farming, which operates in short and local cycles, has finally shown its strength. so we need not lower environmental standards, but raise them. of course, now, and because of my question to you, we need something in the short term to strengthen these cycles - these short ones. and in the long term, how do you plan to strengthen them in the cap in the next edition?
it is also logical, commissioner, what you have said, and i believe it is also our role to show and provide data on this dependence on petrochemicals, energy-intensive industries and complex supply chains. that is why organic farming has survived the crises so well. so i ask again: what are the specific instruments we have in the next cap, in the next eu agricultural policy, to really strengthen those which are geared to the common good, so that public money is finally also used for public services?
a member of the commission. mr. ambassador, i can only assure you that as far as fertilisers and their availability are concerned, there is no difference in the commission here. the whole commission is working towards this. the document on fertilisers was adopted without any objections or controversy. it seems that the instruments available so far have been used. we have been very keen to see what else the european commission can offer farmers. i do not see any instruments at the moment that could be added to this communication. much now depends on the innovation in the member states, on the incentives that will be used at national level to promote alternative or natural fertilisation methods. there's really big reserves here, but these are also schematics. the commission does not impose them, but the member states propose them, adapting them to the situation in each country. as regards energy prices, the honourable member is well aware of the disagreements that have arisen in the council, the long discussions that have taken place to take certain actions, to make certain commitments. member states do not agree on all matters. sometimes they don't all have the same business. these are not easy decisions when it comes to energy pricing issues, but setting these maximum gas prices is a big step forward. this should also improve the situation of fertiliser producers and consequently the situation of farmers and consequently the situation of consumers.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the issue today is not just a problem of the member states, because the war against ukraine has global implications. china stores 50 percent of the world's wheat, and india has stopped exporting it altogether. we have hidden price increases, international companies making huge sales and good profits, low-income earners and farmers being left out. my question is: why is the commission pressing for the continuation of the nature restoration law in these circumstances? and secondly, on the one hand you talk about fertilisers, natural fertilisers, the word, on the other hand the european commission is doing almost everything to massively reduce animal husbandry in europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. gifts not declared, luxury trips paid for by dictators, not specified always new things that damage the reputation of all of us here. my dear fellow, if we do not want this to end in disaster at the next european elections, then there can only be one standard for us here: full transparency. the culture of impunity that we have had here unfortunately has to come to an end. if someone breaks the code of conduct, there must be financial consequences. apparently, the rules aren't being followed. we almost unanimously adopted reforms in december, and now the first ones are starting to say again: 'oh, we are not going to do that now, it is going too far. but we need the asset disclosure. we need to disclose all meetings with lobbyists. we need effective whistleblower protection and above all independent oversight of the rules. yes, there are majorities in this house for these reforms, some for years, and yet certain reforms have failed time and again. i think that is why it must be clear that we are not talking about a working group in the bureau, but about an open debate in the committee, an open vote on what needs to be changed here in the house.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. no one needs an eu army that would represent the eu's incompetence in all its facets. for many years the eu has been trying to introduce this very eu army through a common foreign and security policy, thereby undermining the sovereignty of the member states in a wider area. the european union has failed in all areas, and has failed miserably in all crises. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so in the future, european nations could be voted out of office in such important areas as migration and foreign and security policy, against vital national interests. and the fact that you, mr mcallister, as a german, are even calling for the permanent abandonment of nord stream in this report and thereby jeopardizing germany's energy security should also make the last person in our country realize what the cdu is today: unelectable and a disgrace to our country. the reports are, of course, to be rejected.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. fast, fast, full throttle on the way to a military union, it's been saying since i've been here. as if more arms meant more security. quite the opposite. massive armaments increase the risk of military advantages. that's what russia is doing. it's even worse here since russia's unlawful attack on ukraine. more guns, faster guns, bigger guns, and it's been said here since the beginning that the battlefield is where the war is decided. the eu is spending billions on arms deliveries to ukraine. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. how crazy are those who play russian roulette, and nothing else is being done here right now. and at the same time, those who are for an end to the war are being slandered. no, ladies and gentlemen, to be for the end of the war is not to be for the regime, but to be reasonable, to warn against a world war.
i have to say, madam president, i had written an opinion on this report for the femm committee. i emphasized the importance of equal rights for men and women. i condemned all violence against women and found that this violence had increased dramatically, especially during the covid-19 lockdown. i called for a strong response to the suffering of women who have been victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation. but instead of taking a stand on these essential, fundamental issues, this report has been reinterpreted into a veritable potpourri of ideological nonsense: abortion, climate change, gender mania. what you call the defence of democracy is ideological nonsense which you intend to impose on the peoples of europe by abolishing democratic principles. i am in favour of freedom, democracy and the rule of law and therefore categorically against this report.
the commission has already done so. i would like to thank the honourable member for her work, but unfortunately the annual report is incomplete - a long list of alleged achievements and an even longer list of aspirations, neatly divided to demonstrate our humanitarian credibility. we even have annexes listing the individual cases we have examined and a list of the countries we have condemned. of course, the list of cases can sometimes seem a bit strange, but the recent media coverage might explain it. but what i still didn't understand is that in the face of our humanitarian record, we have ignored one of the world's greatest humanitarian crises, yemen. let me give you some numbers. 150,000 people were killed. 23.4 million people are in need of some form of humanitarian assistance. 17.4 million people suffer from food shortages. 4.3 million people have been displaced. the civilian population is constantly exposed to the risk of cholera, diphtheria and dengue fever. there is no discussion of yemen, no outrage, no calls for action. we have failed the true test of our humanitarian credibility.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. human rights are indivisible and are inherent in all human beings, regardless of gender, age, religion, origin, sexual orientation or political opinion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further complicated. that is why it is important that we also take a strong stand against human rights violations within the european union. there are many examples, ladies and gentlemen: the ban on abortion and lgbti-free zones in poland, the spying on political opponents in greece, the mistreatment of migrants in croatia, for example, and many others. but we can also do more outside the community, ladies and gentlemen: it is important that the european external action service stands even more closely with human rights defenders, supporting them and not cozying up to authoritarian regimes. and we need to abolish the principle of unanimity in foreign policy, ladies and gentlemen, so that sanctions can be imposed more quickly on those who commit human rights violations. one last sentence, ladies and gentlemen, because i'm tired of conservatives saying, "religious freedom is restricted when we defend lgbti rights and so on". no, that's not the point! it's just that every human being has the right to be who they are, to make the choices they want to make, and that no religion in this world can forbid these people to do that.
in writing. violence against women and girls, such as sexual harassment and sexual violence, domestic violence, child and forced marriage and female genital mutilation, is a violation of basic rights and hinders women's social and economic development. in many countries around the world, structural barriers such as discriminatory laws and policies, gender stereotypes and negative social norms persist. you are right to mention all this, but you refuse to mention the causes of this violence, let alone to propose an effective policy. the american brookings institute rightly emphasizes that the middle east and north africa is the patriarchal region of the world. every single country in this region has less women in employment and less women in political leadership than the global average. in the pre-islamic period, the gender ratio in this region was diverse. in ancient egypt, women were equal before the law. after the islamic conquests, segregation and violence against women became the norm throughout the region. sexual harassment of women is widespread in the region. islam is in the way of gender equality. and because of immigration, violence against women is not only a global problem, but we in europe are also increasingly confronted with extreme forms of violence against women, such as female genital mutilation. we can no longer deny this.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, colleagues, commissioner, in a yellow kitchen, an apple bowl sits on the dining table and a father is waiting for his family to return – a picture that could be from any house, even yours or mine. except that this is not a regular kitchen anymore; it belongs to the family of mykhailo koronevsky. it is now buried under the rubble of a dnipro apartment block. a russian missile has hit it. the screams of shocked people echo from under the rubble. firefighters in despair dig in tonnes of debris with their bare hands to save the few still alive. these devastating pictures depict man-made atrocity made by one man and his country. putin brands himself as a defender of orthodox christian values. yet putin, in the most cynical terrorist attack, destroyed the lives of over 40 civilians on orthodox new year, in a city where the majority still speaks russian. this cowardly attack can never be forgotten. i want to ask those still insisting that sending tanks to ukraine will escalate the war – escalate to where? what red line has russia not yet crossed? russia has committed unspoken evils and reached the bottom of civilisation. this regime only understands the language of unity and force. it interprets a compromise as a weakness. we need to deprive russia of everything it can use to wage the war, and we must give ukraine everything it needs to defeat this regime. slava ukraini!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. crime doesn't start with sonic booms on apartment blocks in dnipro, burying 40 people alive. crimes do not start with bombing a maternity hospital in wolnyansk, killing a two-day-old infant. crime does not begin with the dead in bucha, or with torture cellars in kherson, or with filtration camps in donbass. crime started with the attack of russian troops on ukraine first in 2014, then in 2022. dnipro, bucha, the little two days old killed serhij: all these victims result from the criminal decision to aggression. we are speechless in the face of the images from ukraine. international law seems to have lost its language. we may be speechless, but we are not speechless. and just as we have been calling for months for the protection of ukrainians by our weapons, we are now calling for the creation of a completely different weapon: the weapon of justice, the weapon of a special tribunal. it won't be an easy road. but as german foreign minister baerbock said, we need to send a clear message to the russian leadership that a war of aggression in this world will not go unpunished. there's nothing to add to that. now the words must be followed by action. we owe it to the people of ukraine. to the many relatives, orphans and parents who are crying for their children in dnipro, in bucha, in wolnyansk.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i welcome the establishment of a tribunal to condemn the russian aggression and to investigate all war crimes and crimes against humanity committed in ukraine, regardless of whether they were committed by russians or ukrainians. we are not doing ourselves any favors by bringing these demands at this time. it is not just the outcome of the war that is anticipated, which i consider to be more than optimistic in view of the current military developments. the european union has also expressed its concern at the situation in the former yugoslavia, which is currently in a state of crisis. and that is exactly what we should all be aiming for if we are to end this needless bloodshed. it is always said that the eu stands for peace. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. let's put this demand back, and bring it back at the end of the war.
i have to say, madam president, we must not allow the atrocities of the russian invaders to paralyze us. we need international justice with enforcement. the international criminal court's hands are tied because moscow did not sign the rome statute. and in the un security council, the war criminals from moscow have veto power at the table themselves. the international community therefore needs a special tribunal modelled on the yugoslav tribunal - not as an instrument of the west, not as judicial self-justice, not as a triumph of justice, but as an independent ad hoc criminal tribunal with an international bench of judges to bring those responsible to justice and to impose their sentences. europe, commissioner, must take the lead here, involve the un, show international leadership, push for the establishment of a special tribunal. the message to the world public is clear and unequivocal: russian war criminals will not go unpunished. because impunity for this breakdown of civilization would be the bitterest defeat of the international community. let justice speak for justice and for the victims of this unspeakable barbarity not to be forgotten.
madam president, there has been a mistake. i'm doing the catch the eye for iran, for the next theme. excuse me, i put the box too early. for iran.
madam president, yesterday, 12 000 people came to strasbourg to demonstrate for a free iran and against its brutal regime. and this regime is under pressure because people in iran are even willing to die for a brighter future. and we, the european union, should not be the one stabilising a regime while its own people fight for its downfall. so how can our high representative on the one side denounce executions and at the same time meet the iranian minister of foreign affairs on the red carpet in amman? how can he speak about reviving the jcpoa if the only thing that comes out of it is the international reputation and recognition that the regime urgently needs? so the time for this ambiguous policy is over. as long as the brutal crackdown on protests continues, we should not negotiate. as long as the revolutionary guards terrorise their own people and the whole region, we should treat them as terrorists and put them on the sanctions list. the iranian people have taken to the streets in iran and all over the world, and they ask for our support. i stand with them. and so should all of us. (the speaker concluded in a non—official language)
madam president, the revolt of the iranian people began with the murder of jina mahsa amini by the iranian police over an unveiled lock of hair. the iranian people are demanding justice, they are demanding freedom and they are demanding equality for women. he wants to live by his own ideals. the iranian government responded with excessive violence: arrests, death sentences, summary trials. however, these condemnations will not stop the desire to establish freedom and also to establish democracy. these hangings will indeed tear the sons and daughters of iran from the affection of their parents, as was the case with mohsen shekari, majidreza rahnavard, mohammad mehdi karami and seyed mohammad hosseini, but victory comes at a price. are we going to stand by and watch this massacre at the gates of europe? we reiterate our solidarity and unwavering support for the iranian people. the european union must strengthen sanctions to save lives and above all review its asylum policy so that all those fleeing this despotic regime can come to us.
i have to say, madam president, happy birthday from me too. six out of ten europeans are satisfied with the cooperation of member states in addressing the social and economic consequences of war. this is good on the one hand, but it also shows that there is still room for improvement and that everything is going to be fine if we give the citizens the confidence that europe is capable of meeting these challenges. and in fact, we have inflation, and purchasing power is threatened, which worries many people in europe. the high prices of raw materials present our companies with major challenges. and that is why it is not enough to talk about competitiveness, but when we talk about competitiveness we always talk about jobs in europe. and indeed, it's extremely important that we secure the economic and industrial base, all the more so since we have the us inflation act, but it also has a big climate and a big social package. and that's why i'm asking not just for the old leers, but that we really develop new concepts here to give the trust. and let me say one last thing about iran: the iranian revolutionary guards must be put on the eu sanctions list. that is quite clear, and that is overdue.
in writing. – eu leaders agreed to grant eu candidate status to bosnia and herzegovina. european council president charles michel even stated ‘the future of the western balkans is in the eu’. bosnia and herzegovina needs to address serious issues, such as strengthening the rule of law and fundamental rights, stepping up the fight against corruption and organised crime, and improve migration management. according to transparency international’s corruption perception index, bosnia and herzegovina ranks 110th, with a dismal 35 out of 100. that is the lowest ranking of any european nation, except for ukraine, which ranks 122th. bosnia’s ranking has declined continuously since 2013, and according to the 2022 world report of human rights watch, bosnia did not progress on human rights in 2021, citing public pressure on journalists, discrimination of minorities, and reluctance to continue prosecuting war crimes. the eu is giving a wrong signal by granting eu candidate status to bosnia and herzegovina. while brussels is criticizing countries like poland and hungary for their rule of law problems, it gives a corrupt failed state like bosnia and herzegovina the prospect of eu membership. the hypocrisy is striking, and an insult to those who really care about true european values.
i have to say, madam president, thank you very much, commissioner, for announcing a european net zero industry act. that's right, you're right. we need to be leaders in the key green technologies of the future: solar panels, wind power, electricity storage and grids, heat pumps and hydrogen electrolysers. the climate industry must replace the dirty fossil fuel industry if we are to save the climate and secure future jobs in europe. the global race has already begun, and europe is lagging behind. we need a european approach to get us to the front. it involves three things: the debt brake must not prevent european investment, europe must have easy ways to promote the climate industry in all regions and thirdly, high european standards for recyclability, environmental sustainability and workers. modernising industry, moving to a circular economy and social justice - let's do it together!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are talking today about promoting industrial competitiveness and creating quality jobs. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. but above all, industry needs affordable energy to succeed. and now she doesn't have it anymore. the eu's climate policy is to blame for this and no one else. now the eu is once again trying to solve problems it has created. once again, a fund is to be set up to provide billions to industry to offset the competitive disadvantage - billions which we do not have, billions which are being created. and that's not going to stop these companies from moving to the us and china. i wonder why this fund in the first place? in fact, it is exactly what the greens want, exactly what the green deal is supposed to achieve. we want the transformation of the economy! we want to de-industrialise. we don't want these jobs where people work with their hands and earn well, people who get dirty. the greens don't want these jobs. the greens want jobs for people who have learned nothing, can do nothing and know nothing and make a lot of money by telling each other some nonsense. but these jobs are only available in the green party. in real life, there are no jobs like that, and we want jobs for normal people - people who work decently, who want to feed their families. we need jobs like this, not jobs for the greens. there are already in the green party and in this parliament, and unfortunately there are far too many.
madam president, dear colleagues, i would just like to make a point of order. the european union is a key player when it comes to iran, and our high representative is the coordinator for the nuclear negotiations with iran. so what we do here matters for the future of iran and the middle east, and the european parliament has a role in that. yet for three times now, the high representative did not show up for the debate with this parliament on the issue of iran – despite the fact that he was in town. on 9 november he couldn’t be there so we rescheduled the debate for 22 november, when right when we started the debate he walked out of the plenary. so we had a unanimous message from the conference of presidents to him that he had better be here for the debate yesterday. yet again yesterday, mr borrell was in strasbourg, but he wasn’t here in the evening. colleagues, we are talking about one afternoon a month where we ask him to adjust his schedule to our plenary debates. i have to say that i find it difficult not to interpret this behaviour as a sign of disrespect to parliament, and also to the 12 000 people who were here on monday. (loud applause)i understand very much that we cannot drag him here by physical force. so maybe this public statement will help. i encourage the conference of presidents to also define what else they can do to make him appear here next time. otherwise, i promise you, i will make this point of order again!
madam president, you had made the decision to take the oral amendment to a vote. the opposition has been expressed after the decision of the president has been made. therefore, i request that the decision stands as it has been proposed to parliament and, therefore, we vote on the amendment as proposed by the colleague.
the minutes of yesterday's sitting and the texts adopted are available. is there any objection? i don't see that. (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
the next item is the debate on a topical and urgent subject (rule 162) on the protection of the rule of law against impunity in spain (2023/2519 ((rsp)). i would point out to the members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words in this debate and that no blue cards will be accepted.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already done so. we are talking again today about the rule of law, and this time, surprisingly, not about the rule of law in hungary or poland, but about the rule of law in spain. as i have said many times here, i am not a fan of these debates. the laws that member states adopt are primarily their own business. but imagine if the polish or hungarian government had decided to significantly reduce the penalties for sexual crimes. the indignation of the left, the greens, the socialists and the liberals would be boundless. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. now we have exactly this situation in spain. however, here comes the reduction in penalties for sexual crimes by the socialist government. more than 200 convicted sex offenders have benefited from the new regulation. their sentences have been drastically reduced. many of them are free again. what this means for the victims is beyond anyone's imagination. but the socialist government doesn't just have a heart for sex offenders, it also has a heart for criminals who embezzle public funds: here, too, the penalties have been drastically reduced. in this respect too, it must be said: if poland or hungary had passed such a law, the outcry from the left-wing parties would have been enormous, and the commission would have frozen all funds immediately. but now it's spain, and the laws are also coming from the socialists. they are setting new standards in terms of corruption and embezzlement here in parliament. we should note once again that it was not the colleagues from pis or fidesz who took money from the qataris, but exclusively socialists. the commission and the colleagues of the left have a serious problem now: if they are serious about protecting women and fighting corruption and embezzlement, they would have to take action against spain. if they do not, they make it clear that the protection of the rule of law depends on whether or not an eu-friendly government is in power in the country.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs angelika winzig, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the control of the financial activities of the european investment bank annual report 2021 (2022/2153 (ini)) (a9-0294/2022).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, colleagues, and also a big thank you to you, madam commissioner, for your warm words regarding the unbearable tragedy which we have seen today in ukraine. but of course, the war we are facing now is affecting our work and our life everyday. it’s not easy to come back to this rather technical topic now regarding the annual report of the eib’s activities in 2021, which was very detailed and which reflects the challenges of that year still in pandemic mode and with the institution expanding. however, there are areas where the greens have been repeatedly calling on the eib to take decisive actions. firstly, we want to underline the importance of green and sustainable investment – it was mentioned. while the eib has increased its support for renewables and an energy efficiency project, it still provides significant funding for fossil fuel investments. this is concerning, as the eu has committed to reach net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. mainstreaming of green investment and not spending money on anything that has a negative climate impact must remain a priority so that the eib becomes truly the eu’s climate bank. the report also fails to provide sufficient information on social and environmental effects to the eib’s investments. it is of the utmost importance that the transparency of use of public funds clear (sound ends abruptly). action. while the eib annual report highlights some positive developments, it is clear that there are also areas for improvement.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the only good thing i can get out of this very demanding and detailed report, dear colleague, is to take up the repeated request of our committee on budgetary control that the eib should grant the court of auditors more extensive audit and information rights. thank you for that. the report also shows that the eib is increasingly cutting back on financially and economically sound investments within the eu. the eib's money should be invested in our future and that of our children in the eu. instead, there are calls to strengthen and implement gender mainstreaming, diversity, social inclusion - whatever that may be - and climate action, which only serve to weaken our economy, our national identity and the well-being of our families. the report even calls for the eib to be transformed into a european climate bank, which is not only supposed to protect the eu but the whole world from climate change. i am unfortunately certain that it will not be long before german and other european taxpayers will have to pay for the climate change in brazil or for alleged climate damage in pakistan. the report should therefore not be dealt with further so that we can spend more of our time and money on investments that are good for the people we represent in this house.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the eu must finally act against corruption and fraud. at the heart of the katargate scandal are two well-funded brussels ngos: fight impunity and no peace without justice. in 2018, the european court of auditors published a shocking report on the lack of financial transparency of ngos. although ngos receive tens of billions of eu funds, they remain exempt from eu money laundering rules as so-called non-obligated entities. the commission therefore claims that it does not have sufficient detailed information on how eu funds are spent by ngos. the court of auditors is calling for the immediate introduction of an eu-wide definition of ngos to improve transparency and control. but the commission and parliament are not doing anything. in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, my proposal to extend the definition of politically exposed persons to include managers of eu-funded ngos is rejected by the self-declared anti-corruption campaigners in other groups. whether it is leyens's text message to the ceo of pfizer, socialist mps who receive bribes from qatar and morocco, or the ecb's links to blackrock and goldman sachs, one thing is clear: there is no persecution of the mainstream, only the occasional farmer victim.
president, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are discussing today makes several references to the recovery and resilience facility, the recovery fund of over eur 720 billion, almost half of which is subsidies. that is actually outside the regular budget and is therefore also difficult to control. we should expect new funding channels to be made as fraud-proof as possible from the outset. but the recovery and resilience facility does not meet that criterion. the council has decided to hand over control to the member states themselves. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fact that the member states themselves are being monitored is problematic. i repeat my call for parliament and the other monitoring bodies to be given a genuine and objective monitoring role in this.
madam president, please. we all know that the commission evaluates the protection of the union's financial interests in a report for each year. it is also common practice for parliament to draw up its own report, in which it gives the member states and national authorities a typically didactic lecture on how to combat fraud and corruption. but no one talks about how, with such a complex set of eu institutions against fraud and corruption as olaf, eppo, europol and eurojust, a vast network of corruption bribes could have been operating for years, right here in the european parliament. how much credibility does an institution have left to criticize the legal practices of member states, to lecture governments, to impose the conditions of the rule of law, where for a long time, such a high level of bribery system could operate within the gates of the institution. the committee on budgetary control should therefore deal with this rather than that, and we cannot therefore support this report.
madam chairman, organized crime is no longer what we remember it was in the mid-1990s, or what we know from the street gangster movies. today, organized crime often has high-level operatives who are well-educated and good-looking people with the right degrees from the right universities offering innovative financial products. but the glitzy office, the nice website and the smiling young faces are just the packaging, and inside sometimes lies financial fraud, money laundering, political party funding or evading sanctions against the russian federation. in recent days, an international investigation between the united states, the united kingdom and bulgaria was announced, in which the financial, alleged financial pyramid "nexos" has stolen tens of thousands of people with tens of billions of euros. you're probably wondering why we're interested in this. this financial pyramid has financed the yes bulgaria party, which until recently participated in the government of bulgaria. i think that the european institutions cannot be selective. they need to look at this case and show that there's no double jeopardy, that it's all the same. to show the european voter that his interest is above all else. the transparency of european funding and their financial interest is paramount.
madam chairman! organized fraud and embezzlement cost us, according to the european public prosecutor's office, eppo, 5.4 billion euros in 2021. and that is an enormous sum of money, which only shows the importance of the fact that we have a european public prosecutor's office dedicated to detecting crossborder fraud. there is every reason to increase the budget of the prosecutor's office and to expand its powers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. crime is not supposed to pay. unfortunately, countries such as poland, hungary, sweden, ireland and my own country, denmark, do not participate in the eppo cooperation on the european public prosecutor's office. and it only serves to make life easier for criminal swindlers. i would therefore urge these member states to join the eppo as soon as possible. if we are to secure europe effectively against crossborder crime, everyone must participate wholeheartedly in cooperation. thank you, sir.
mr president, the money that the eu has given has been received by the member states from the taxpayers to do sensible things with. the eu member states are responsible for the lawful spending of eu funds and thus also for the fight against fraud. i believe that it is important to prevent fraud. that is more important than trying to bring the guilty to justice after the fact, with all the difficulties of the burden of proof and appeals that go with it. i strongly advocate more transparency rather than more reporting. it should be possible for all eu citizens to see exactly what eu budgets are for, how, where and by whom they are spent. in short, i am in favour of a completely new approach to the fight against fraud and a modernisation of the system. if all citizens in europe can see on a single map where and for what purpose resources are being spent, we will have much more control over spending without an extreme increase in reporting obligations and staff. the tech's ready. it's time to act!
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. although poland has not joined the european public prosecutor's office and we have not developed a strategy to combat fraud, it turns out that we are the leader in reporting this type of irregularity to the european institutions. as mentioned, 17% of all complaints come from poland, which means that polish institutions fighting corruption and misuse of european funds are working very well. moreover, the commissioner has also spoken a great deal about vat fraud. it so happens that the government in poland, in eight years of its activity, has led to the fact that budget revenues from vat have been doubled, increased by 100% in seven years. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that are subject to the vat exemption. it is the european institutions that should take an example from poland, because we are showing how to fight corruption and financial abuse.
madam president, commissioner johansson, we welcome the fact that a debate in the european parliament's plenary on the fight against corruption and fraud affecting the union's financial interests is now a custom: it is institutionalized. it was unthinkable not long ago; i remember well that the first anti-corruption strategy was put in place by your predecessor, commissioner malmström. as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i was rapporteur for the directive on combating fraud affecting the financial interests of the union through criminal law, which acts as the legal basis for the competence of the european public prosecutor's office; let no one be alarmed if i consider it an institution, in a federal sense, capable of prosecuting after having investigated supranationally financial attacks against the financial interests of the union. but no european institution replaces the member states, neither their courts nor their prosecutors. the european public prosecutor's office should be able to provide the necessary information to the competent authorities of the member states in order to ensure that the eppo is able to fulfil its tasks.
member of the commission. – madam president, i wish to thank everyone for this very good debate. i think it has been a very fruitful debate. i really appreciate the support that you give and the hard work that you put into this important policy area. effective protection of the financial interests of the eu requires collective and coordinated efforts from all eu institutions and from all member states. the commission will continue to do everything in its power to improve and increase the level of protection that is already in place. but we and our operational bodies will need support from partners in the eu to make sure that the budget, and equally the reputations of the eu institutions, are properly protected from those that seek to harm it. the european parliament, and in particular the budgetary control committee, has a particularly important role to play in this respect. i would like to thank you again and i look forward to continuing our close cooperation on this topic.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 19 january 2023.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the terrorist threat to the democratic order posed by right-wing extremist networks (2022/3016 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner thank you for inviting me to speak. i would like to start my intervention by recalling a fundamental principle of eu action: violent extremism and terrorism should be addressed in all its forms, be it right wing, left wing, religious or otherwise, and we should do everything in our power to prevent it. the directive on combating terrorism, which the council and the european parliament updated together in 2017, is the cornerstone of our response to terrorism and does not distinguish between ideologies. combating all forms of terrorism, violent extremism and radicalisation is a fundamental part of providing security for our citizens. during our presidency, we will give attention to both new forms of violent extremism and terrorism, as well as the evolvement within existing violent threat environments, and at the same time not forget that the threats of yesterday. when it comes to far—right movements and their destabilising effect there is a worrying and growing trend in many eu member states that we cannot ignore – ranging from anti-semitic, anti—lgbti, anti-muslim and anti—immigrant to eco—fascist sentiments. their aim is to create political tension and social chaos and ultimately undermine our democratic systems. our absolute rejection of such movements requires not only strong and swift action, but also a united voice from national and eu institutions. this is why, already in 2019, the council agreed on the following four joint work strands against violent right—wing extremism and terrorism: one, creating a better understanding and extent of the problem in europe; two, developing and sharing best practices against extra extremist; three, tackling the spread of unlawful right—wing extremist content online; and four, cross-border cooperation. it is our intention during the swedish presidency not only to take stock of the implementation of these four strands, but to go further and to look at whether further measures might be needed. i would highlight in particular the use of the internet for spreading extremist ideologies, a trend that has grown exponentially with the covid—19 pandemic and now in the context of russia’s war of aggression against ukraine. these are very often very fluid, fast—evolving movements, and the digital space remains a considerable breeding ground for radicalisation and space for recruitment. the origin, financing and impact of such movements is difficult to assess. however, we cannot ignore their potential and that is why we need more cooperation among our law—enforcement and intelligence communities. i would also wish to highlight the rising transnational nature of the extremist right—wing threat that we have witnessed in the past couple of years. new transnational narratives such as the great replacement or white genocide transcend national boundaries and have led to strong international networks. cracking down on those networks requires more regular exchange with like—minded partners. in particular, i should mention the role of eu agencies such as europol to ensure that the eu is a part of international investigations against extremist networks. indeed, violent right—wing extremism is not just a threat within the eu, but worldwide as the shocking events in brazil only a couple of weeks ago have demonstrated. widespread international condemnation of those events has been a positive sign that the international community is paying attention. we must now turn words into action, starting with our member states. the eu has taken some decisive actions in this field and has set itself as an example of the international community in addressing violent extremism. i would recall in particular the regulation on addressing the dissemination of terrorist content online, which came into effect last year, or the digital services act, which will provide a general framework for regulation of harmful and unlawful expression on the internet. the use of violence language to incite extremist and anti-democratic behaviour must be met with zero tolerance by democratic institutions, while of course respecting the principle of freedom of speech and of expression. much more still needs to be done, as was stated at the beginning. we will focus on violent right—wing extremism and will invite member states to share their experiences and strategies. among other things, we will take into account of how to arrive at a working definition of violent right—wing extremism and establish a framework with the commission and share with the member states on how it is used or could be used. we very much expect this parliament to be part of this discussion. in addition, we will organise a conference in stockholm on how to prevent radicalisation.
member of the commission. – madam president, minister roswall, honourable members, just before christmas, in a lone—wolf attack in paris, a far—right extremist shot three men dead: a terrorist attack intended to cause death and fear. in the last months and years, we have also seen a new type of threat, from washington to berlin, to brasilia: violent attacks on institutions representing the people. last december, german police put a stop to a conspiracy, detaining 25 men and women suspected of membership of a terrorist organisation who planned to assault the bundestag, round up members of parliament and the government, and abolish democracy. it’s tempting to laugh at this plot around prince heinrich and its outlandish ideology, including nostalgia for the german empire, anti—semitic and anti—vax elements. but it would be a serious mistake to underestimate a network including a pilot, a judge, a lawyer, a doctor, a policeman and former soldiers, including special forces, spread out over germany with arrests also in austria and italy, with money, with weapons and with the will to carry out their plans. so to the german police, i say, well done with this crackdown. well done for showing democracy in germany is resilient and strong. but we cannot take support for democracy for granted. in a worrying trend, right—wing extremists are getting younger and younger. in estonia, a 13—year—old boy founded a far—right extremist movement. in bratislava, a 19—year—old shot dead two people in a gay bar. teenagers and adults are going down internet rabbit holes, making up what i would like to call a ‘do it yourself’ ideology from what they find: hate of minorities, hate of democracy, hate of women, hate of jews, hate of gays. and with conspiracy theories and warrants for violence, a frankenstein ideology of different parts is forming a living, violent, dangerous monster. but how can we expect young people to do the right thing if adults don’t give the right example? we must speak out against the creeping normalisation of hatred. as democrats, we must say, it’s not normal to be a nazi, it’s not normal to destroy our institutions, it’s not normal to attack the symbols of our democracies or our elected representatives. when democracy is under attack, russia is never far away. the far—right russian imperial movement, the night wolves biker gang have ties with extremists in the eu. the german plotters apparently tried to get the blessing of the russian consulate in leipzig, which would make them not only terrorists, but also traitors. we will never tolerate russian attempts to undermine us. the eu launched sanctions against sputnik and russia today, and day in and day out, our services counter russian disinformation, and we will do more to counter external threats. in may, the commission will launch a new ‘defence of democracy’ package to bring covert foreign influence and shady funding to light against third country entities covertly impacting public opinion and undermining democracies, supporting member states’ actions on funding of national political parties in the eu by russia and others. the terrorist content online regulation allows authorities or providers to take down terrorist propaganda within the hour. the digital service act will provide a solid legal framework to tackle the spread of illegal content. europol’s internet referral unit monitors and analyses far—right material. to take it down, tech companies and member states join forces in the eu internet forum, which gives guidance to providers to help identify far—right symbols and prevent extremist from raising funds online. this year, the forum will publish a new handbook on borderline content: propaganda that is harmful but not illegal, like disinformation or conspiracy theories. the radicalisation awareness network will focus its research on finding new trends in far—right extremism. as shown in france and germany, the fight against terror depends on police action. to fight terrorism across borders, we are improving police cooperation and information exchange. as we outlined in our counter—terrorism agenda two years ago, we gave europol a stronger mandate so it can work directly with internet companies essential to removing terrorist content. in case of terrorist offences, member states must now create alerts in the schengen information system. we made sure of that, and the updated prüm regulation will make police information exchange more efficient. so i call on you today: adopt your negotiating position on prüm as soon as possible, and give police the up—to—date tools they need to fight terror. dear members of parliament, today we discuss a new threat: political violence mobilised online, inspired by populist leaders, driven by a far—right ideology but defeated by the forces of democracy. they failed in washington. they failed in berlin. they failed in brasilia. but they are watching. they are learning. they could try again and they must fail again. we need legislation, police cooperation and inspiration. we can there can be no democracy without democrats. we must speak out against all forms of extremism and say, hands off our institutions, our politicians, our parliaments. they don’t belong to you. they belong to the people of europe.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in december, there was a large anti-terrorist operation in germany against reich citizens: 150 searches, 25 arrests, 54 trials. i would like to thank the emergency services and the security services. the defendants were armed, they had tactical training, they were radicalized. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. age is no excuse for assessing danger and radicalization. the mission was important, it was right. he showed what a strong democracy is. what's the point now? first, no one is above the law. if we look at the last few weeks, we have to say: no one, no reich citizens, no iranian bombers, no clans, no radical activists. the rules of decency and the rules of the basic democratic order of freedom apply to everyone. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. secondly, as the commissioner has said, cooperation and the exchange of information between security authorities are key. the european union has a duty to help the victims of terrorism, and the european union has a duty to help the victims of terrorism. but, ladies and gentlemen, all this can only be prevented if our services, our authorities, both national and european, have the right means at hand to protect us. because in the end, they can only protect us as well as we, as legislators, can. thirdly, it is absolutely irrelevant whether the motivation is right-wing, left-wing, ideological or religious: anyone who is opposed to our democracy, our values, our way of negotiating compromises, will be met with resistance. our democracy lives by rules, by negotiating rules, by following rules. democracy demands, democracy demands, democracy is sometimes tiring, but it is ultimately the guarantee of social balance and cohesion. she deserves the best protection we can give her.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. thank you for your clear words also in relation to the dangers that threaten our democracy here. we've known for a long time that we really need a defensible, a contestable democracy. we in germany have really developed this discourse and awareness through the experience of national socialism, and it is important for us that democracy defends itself against the enemies. but it also depends on the citizens, who are really playing a very active role here. so it is good that we are discussing what we can do here at european level and how we can counter these right-wing terrorist threats. it has been said that we need not look only at countries like the united states or brazil. we can look at what's happening in europe, and we've seen that the pandemic, but also the war, is really contributing to the radicalization of certain groups, right-wing extremist movements, foundations and citizens. that should give us something to think about. we also heard that we need to look more closely: who is funding these groups? russia is indeed one of those. we must and can build stronger barriers here in europe, as the european parliament, so that this does not happen again in the future. we had a really terrible experience in germany. we had the nsu, a group that went around germany murdering and murdering citizens for racist reasons. we had a long blindfold - including the authorities - to really determine that in the end it turned out that it is not just any "donor murders" as it was transported in the media, but really relevant groups. we have now, and this has already been mentioned, actually had this raid on the reich citizens and we must note that in germany, according to the constitutional report, we have 21 000 people who are to be attributed to this environment. we really need to do more here than go to these groups. the commissioner has said that it is not the globalisation losers who go to such groups, but the very centre of society, academics, nobles and doctors. we need to find the right answers. and when we look at the research, we see a point that more needs to be done, because the normalization of these kinds of movements that we're seeing in europe is also helping to give these movements more support. again, there is much for us in parliament to do to ensure that this fourth wave of right-wing extremism and terrorism does not spread further, but that we stop it together.
i have to say, madam president, in the failed coup attempt in turkey in 2016, the prosecution assumes the participation of 8,000 soldiers with 35 combat aircraft, 37 helicopters, 74 tanks and 246 armored vehicles. if only the coup plotters had followed the example of the citizens of the reich in germany! here, according to the official version, a few dozen, mostly with crossbows and old long guns, have put the whole democracy and our system in danger. it took 3,000 police officers to eliminate this threat to democracy. a stunning media spectacle that was supposed to support the narrative of the danger from the right, but which collapsed like a house of cards after a brief analysis. even the spd's otto schily sees no danger to democracy from this kasperle troop. there are still countless examples of our democratic system being attacked: an eu that does not want to solve the nord stream 2 attack because the perpetrator is probably the wrong person; a ruling party demonstrating alongside climate extremists throwing cobblestones and molotov cocktails at police officers, calling for a change in the socialist system; a migration policy that constantly leads to massive migrant violence; a corona policy that discriminated against millions of unvaccinated science deniers and the instrumentalization of state institutions to fight the opposition.
i have to say, madam president, in germany, right-wing extremists planned a coup. they wanted to destroy freedom and democracy by force of arms. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this was a judge, these were ex-soldiers, ex-police, educated, influential people who were also trained in the gun. yet they have become radicalized, as do many others who are inundated with lies, misinformation and hate on social media every day. and with huge data profiles, platforms can also target each of us personally, and bombard vulnerable people with far-right doom messages in a matter of seconds. the internet companies know this. an internal facebook memo from 2019 said that it's our own recommendations and algorithm optimization on interaction, what we share and comment on, that's making hate and misinformation so dominant on social media. but they don't change it because they make a lot of money selling out our democracy. if we want to protect our democracy, we must finally make social networks transparent and democratic.
mr president, i believe that this house is discussing all the problems we see and want to tackle in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, i have to go. let me start by commenting on the approach to today's topic. it would be better if we could do both left and right extremism together, so address it. in this way, it would be easier to reach some consensus in the democratic circle about the unacceptability of both dangers. research shows that left-wing extremism is more prevalent in our space, so first, a little bit more about it, to balance it out. we know the history of the far left back to the 1990s, when they drew their ideology from marxism, leninism, and also maoism. in the later stage, the new ideological basis became the so-called cultural marxism, which was imposed to a large extent even by universities and many institutes around the world. the são paulo forum in latin america is known as a hotbed of extreme ideas and personnel, as many regional presidents in the region are members of it. so the extreme left, which is not violence and terror, is also very strong in the eu. slovenia has a special experience with it, because they used violent methods to overthrow the government and its president. well, it's also known that one of antifa's active international networks is. but on the other hand, putin's bikers, the night wolves, as they are called, are driving around the balkans in droves, spreading fear among the people, and there is too much right-wing extremism in the european union itself, as we heard today. and then there are the countries and governments that support terrorism and extremist movements and write blacklists that democrats are on. in short, hard times. well, for a true democrat, it doesn't matter if the extremists are left or right. it's important that he sees it and does something about it. and so should the states.
madam president, this parliament passed on 25 october 2018 a resolution that put the finger on the sore on the problem that concerns us. in some member states, the falsification of the history of totalitarian regimes that have ruled in european countries is tolerated. in my view, it contrasts the admirable speed with which journalists or puppeteers have been prosecuted for making jokes about the crown with the passivity with which the apology of crimes against humanity committed by francoism is allowed. it's easier to distort reality, to fabricate fake news that advocates simple, totalitarian and proven failed recipes for solving complex problems. we have seen nostalgics in germany, fortunately isolated, planning to take over the parliament and assassinate the chancellor and we have heard, elsewhere, far-rightists applauding on social networks the incidents in brasilia or the capitol. let us fight the resurgence of fascism with truth, justice and reparation, a guarantee not to give wings to those who advocate the repetition of this kind of catastrophe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are having today is quite astonishing. it deals with the terrorist threats posed by far-right networks. it is true that all terrorist threats must be condemned and fought, wherever they come from. but it is clear that in europe the main attacks have for several years been carried out by radical islam. in france, we are well placed to know. so i think it is very suspicious that we should turn a blind eye to this reality. i am convinced that this artificial debate is only intended to ignite a counter-fire to the qatar gate scandal which has inflamed the left wing of the european parliament. i am not fooled by this pathetic attempt, which once again serves qatar's interests. if you want to denounce terrorism, turn to islamist terrorism and stop turning a blind eye to the actions of your qatari friends. investigate qatar's shady ties to islamist terrorism.
mr president, madam minister for european affairs, dear jessika roswall, madam european commissioner, dear ylva johansson, for several years now, the european union has been the regular target of dramatic terrorist attacks. in its latest report, europol notes the significant rise in far-right terrorism in the eu: it is the second most common type of terrorism after jihadists. these attacks go hand in hand with hate speech and a populist ideology which aims to destabilise our democracies, as we have seen with the recent news reports that several colleagues have quoted, in germany, in bratislava, in paris, at the initiative of far-right networks. to deal with this, europe must remain united. i welcome the progress we have made together, commissioner, with the regulation on combating the dissemination of terrorist content online. but we need to go further. this must be achieved by greater cooperation between law enforcement agencies, greater cooperation between judicial authorities and the intelligence services of the member states. because we know that far-right terrorism does not stop at borders.
mr president, to conceal your own disgraceful views on the real terrorist threats to european countries, you have brought up your old fantasy about the so-called extreme right. you who ignored that number one world criminal organization that was communism, you use any deception to hide your direct responsibility in the rise of the islamist threat in europe. by your deliberate policy of organising the flooding of europe with migrants, by your complacency towards islamist organisations, even going so far as to subsidize them, by your venal servility towards qatar and others, you bear an overwhelming responsibility in spreading the only real threat to the peoples of europe. to take the case of france alone, all the anti-semitic murderers, those of ilan halimi, mireille knoll, sarah halimi, children of the ozar hatorah school of toulouse, all have the same profile: individuals from maghreb and african immigration, radical islamists. the sinister individuals that your politics bring en masse to europe and that you protect through your jurisdictions and others. there is certainly a danger from small groups who, wherever they come from, threaten... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr lacapelle, that is not true. i was indeed distracted by mrs keller for three or four seconds, and you spoke for almost one minute and 15 seconds. i don't know why you're getting upset. a little more precision in the preparation would be much better.
mr. chairman, that was a very interesting debate. i listened to her carefully. there was a lot of debate about whether extremist acts associated with right-wing extremism should be discussed. i believe that this debate, among other things, makes it clear that there is a need to discuss this. it doesn't change the fact that alongside right-wing extremism and its unlawful manifestations, there is also a strong left-wing extremism. that both extreme political currents are unfortunately growing stronger, stronger across europe, and that democracy must respond to them and must be able to deal with them. this is a very clear thing, and we have to realize that what's powering extremist political currents is not just modern technology, social networks, as was mentioned here, but it's some of the countries that are giving them sanctuary. russia, which is the aggressor against ukraine, is also today a safe haven for extreme political forces. it provides both right-wing extremists - especially those - and left-wing extremists with a backdrop, which in turn enables them to carry out attacks in europe. i'm asking you to see this and not underestimate it. i would like to draw attention to the russian imperialist movement, which has a strong base in russia and is also carrying out attacks on the territory of the european union. i am convinced that we must do everything together to fight extremism, and especially thanks to the work of our intelligence services, which work together. i see this as a major opportunity to weaken extremism.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, we all know and are familiar with the name breivik. how many young lives he's deprived of their future. in my country, the czech republic, right-wing extremists were hunting the roma in the 1990s, and unfortunately in our neighbourhood last year, an extremist took the lives of two young people with minority orientation. all forms of right-wing extremism or extremism in general are unacceptable and must not be allowed any space in europe. right-wing terrorism evolved, first by fighting the jews it murdered. subsequently, members of this ideology even denied the holocaust. then they found another target - islam and muslims. and now, sometimes, even our community, the european union, or people with minority orientations, are targeted. all these forms that i'm describing here, any unacceptable violence, we must reject as strongly as possible. far-right terrorism and violence in the eu have also recently been perpetrated by individuals or groups even linked to organisations that have political participation in our parliament. right-wing extremism is a real threat to democratic development in the eu. what can we do about it? we must promote the rule of law, democracy and of course education for young people. it's our best investment for the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a right-wing network was planning a violent coup in germany. these people often hold important positions in the german security apparatus. but we must take seriously the threat posed by such networks. the right-wing extremists express their racism, their inhuman ideology, they spread their slogans. but to be a staunch democrat means to oppose right-wing extremism wherever we find it, and that means in our own ranks. it also means standing up when theories of big business are being spread around the house. that means not voting for nazis. this means preventing any form of disqualification of far-right views. let's be defensive and kick her out of the salon. you have no place in our society.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you and thank you all for putting this important debate on the agenda. thank you for the discussion and thanks to all of you who so clearly condemned the threat from violent far—right extremists, as we have to condemn all violent extremism – and we do so – and also for the support in our fight against terror. the plotters in germany planned a day x for democracy. what they got was a day of reckoning, a day of reckoning for far—right extremists thanks to the decisive action by the german police, showing that the fight against terrorism depends on police action. the eu has taken a large number of measures to make europe safer. i mentioned some of them in my speech. prevention, on the one hand, police cooperation on the other. i could add the action we are taking against firearms or our security databases that will make it harder for terrorists to enter europe or the protection of our public spaces like churches and stadiums and the resilience of our critical entities. beside resilient, critical entities, we need resilient democracies. a resilient democracy is a vigilant democracy. to fight internal threats we have the forces of law and order, which did the successful work in germany, ready to defend the constitutional order, democratic values and fundamental rights. and against external threats, my colleagues didier reynders and věra jourová will soon present the defence of democracy package to help prevent russia from manipulating public opinion in the eu, including elections and democratic debate. above all, as democrats, we must take a stand against violent extremism. in the capitol in washington and the president’s palace in brasilia, the rioters shouted ‘this is our house!’. no, this is not your house and it will never be. let that be clear to anyone with similar plans on this side of the atlantic! this house belongs to the people of europe. finding for whom is having johansson on too much. just that was known minister. and it was well, i mean this is. president. honourable members. commissioner, it is clear that what we hear today, the far right extremists and indeed all forms of extremism, has a various ramification which together pose a very serious threat to our democracy societies. as i said in my initial intervention, addressing the various dimension of the phenomena is a shared responsibility of all democratic institutions, be it at local, national or even at eu level. despite our diverse political views, we should be able to draw the line between what we can consider normal and healthy political debate on the one hand.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, it is clear what we are hearing today, that far right extremists – and indeed all forms of extremism – have various ramifications which together pose a very serious threat to our democratic societies. as i said in my initial intervention, addressing the various dimensions of the phenomenon is a shared responsibility of all democratic institutions, be it at local, national or even eu level. despite our diverse political views, we should be able to draw the line between what we consider normal and healthy political debate on the one hand, and the spread of violent and hateful messages aimed at destroying the very core of democratic societies on the other. the proper application of the regulation on addressing the dissemination of terrorist content online and the recently—agreed digital services act to curb the spread of illegal and harmful content should be a key priority to counter extremism while protecting the freedom of speech and of expression. cooperation with internet companies is key. however, we cannot ignore the fact that extremist group groups evolve very quickly, and it is a challenge for law enforcement authorities to keep up with and counter new trends. an effective eu response to extremism is therefore a permanent effort where the european parliament plays a decisive role not only as a legislator but also as an awareness—raiser. the prevention of radicalisation is key. like i said in my earlier intervention, the swedish presidency will organise a conference in stockholm in march with the title ‘violent extremism and terrorism: challenges and responses’. it will address, for example, the issues of violent right—wing extremism, online radicalisation and recruitment to violent extremism and terrorism, and as well as lone actors. we look forward to the working together with the european parliament in the coming months. once again, thank you for your attention and for the debate.
the debate is closed.
three announcements follow. the mandate of the european parliament is hereby extended to the following members of the european parliament:
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights.
the s&d group has sent the president a decision on the change of appointments to a committee. this decision shall be entered in the minutes of today's meeting and shall enter into force on the day of its publication.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the revelations of lobbying by uber in the eu (2023/2514 (rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner. the council and its presidency are aware of the allegations of lobbying practices by uber. like the parliament, the council believes that clear rules on transparency are essential. this common belief is reflected in our interinstitutional agreement of may 2021 on a mandatory transparency register. i would like to recall that as council presidency, i am here today to represent only the council of the european union and its general secretariat, and i cannot therefore speak on behalf of individual member states. the swedish presidency is implementing the transparency register. the permanent representative and the deputy permanent representative will only meet registered lobbyists during the term of office as presidency of the council. as for the council secretariat, its contact with interest representatives are regulated by the 2021 council decision, which established a strict transparency policy to meetings between its staff and interest representatives. president, since what prompted this debate was the eu legislation on platform workers, let me also take this opportunity to address the ongoing discussion on the working conditions and social rights of platform workers, namely in the context of the platform work directive. the council shares the view with the parliament that platform workers should also enjoy protection under the european social model. this was a very clear message sent by the ministers following the epsco council session last december. as you know, the council has not yet been able to agree on its mandate, as views diverged on a number of points, notably related to the legal presumption. however, the presidency is firmly committed to taking forward the work in the council in order to allow for a successful conclusion of this file before the end of the legislature. thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. – mr president, minister jessika roswall, honourable members, also on behalf of vice—president věra jourová, who cannot be here today, allow me to make a first few remarks concerning transparency and ethics. the commission always stands for the highest standards. we apply very strict transparency measures to ourselves and have been working towards a common approach with other eu institutions. this commission has been uncompromising in delivering the highest standard of transparency on who we meet, who seeks to influence us. the commission requires all members of the commission, members of their cabinets and directors—general of the commission to meet only interest representatives that are registered in the transparency register and to publish information on all meetings held with them. interest representatives that register in the transparency register are required to comply with its code of conduct. this contains the ethical and behavioural rules and principles they need to observe in their interaction with the eu institutions. we are glad that the parliament, the council and the commission reached a major milestone in fostering a common transparency culture with the adoption of the interinstitutional agreement on the transparency register in 2021. this is a starting point to further build and improve transparency in the institutions. the commission’s approach is that the other institutions should ensure an equivalent regime and, overall, at least the same level of transparency as the commission concerning meetings and other interactions with interest representatives. for us, it is key to have strong rules and common principles covering in the same way all european institutions and bodies, and this is what the commission will continue to push for. as regards the revelation of the uber company lobbying practices from last year, the commission attaches great importance to the role of whistle—blowers for good functioning of our democracy and also economy, as represented by the directive on the protection of persons who report breaches of union law from 2019. and we have taken the allegations in the media reports very seriously. the commission sought clarifications from former vice—president kroes immediately in july 2022. the european anti—fraud office has opened an investigation to establish the facts in view of possible breaches of professional duties; that is, the ethical obligations of commissioners set out in the treaties and in the commission’s code of conduct for the members of the commission. the commission is closely cooperating with olaf in this matter. only after the investigation has been closed will it be considered whether any individual consequences need to be drawn or not.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the debate today is certainly a good opportunity to talk in principle about the role of interest groups and lobbying in european politics. the first and most important aspect of political will is that those affected have a voice and a perspective in legislative processes. this applies to companies as well as to trade unions, ngos, etc. there is no good or bad: transparency and greenpeace are good on the one hand, business and industry on the other. that's the world view that some people here share. but the democratic process is always about negotiating individual interests to the common good, at least for us in the epp. and that is why it is not a bad thing, first of all, for a company to be committed - as uber is - to liberalizing certain sectors of the economy and to seek to talk to mps. what is true, however, is that the company uber, with these 124,000 documents, the so-called uber files, we now know, has devoted and invested considerable resources in the area of lobbying. that in itself is not reprehensible, but the tone of these company documents is. it's not just about corporate culture. this is very strange in the social market economy. but in the end, it's up to us. and if this is about political relations being used to the detriment of the law, then this must be exposed, this must be clarified. but if it is now claimed that powerful economic interests have bought european policy, that is not true. it's not the stuff. there will be a directive on platform work with high standards of protection for workers. and we must always be a little careful in this field - as in many other areas or in the whole of what we are discussing here - not to scandalize things, throw the child with the bath, but calmly analyze where we need to adjust. and, commissioner, there is a difference in transparency rules, whether the commission acts, whether officials act or members with a free mandate who act accordingly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, many of us have recalled the hearing which took place in the committee on employment and social affairs of this house. it was a really great hour for parliament, and every now and then we were left breathless when we heard about the methods that uber uses. and that 's why it 's right: whistleblowers need our special protection. they take risks because they sense that something is wrong in their company to make sure that it's shut down. and thank you to the journalists. they've worked their way through thousands of these files. this was really just a consortium to inform the public and to make sure that we bring light to this darkness and know what's really going on in the backrooms and back rooms, how uber has gotten european governments to deregulate their markets in order to establish and expand its business model at the expense of the workers. and if the compromise on the negotiating mandate is confirmed, then that is also proof to me that this house, this parliament, is not impressed - unlike some governments - by this massive lobbying, which is taking place directly or indirectly. what's this all about? this isn't just about one company or one platform. in reality, it is also about the choice we have between good working conditions and social security for all those who are employed and offer their labour, and the establishment of new forms of wild west capitalism, which are also spreading. that's why we have the election, we postponed the vote. and that might give some of you some time to think, and we have a choice to make, whether we leave millions of rig workers out in the cold, or whether we make sure that they know -- not just today -- how much money they're getting so they can pay their rent, so they can plan, and so they have access to the job market and good employment.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. lobbying advocacy is not a bad thing in itself. companies and associations do this, as do churches and trade unions. it's part of the political process. but, ladies and gentlemen, we must say that at some point we have reached the point where lobbying has lost all sanity as part of political work, where boundaries are simply being crossed. i can only say that the uber files have made it clear where these limits have been crossed, as has the work of the last few weeks on the platform directive. what i have seen here in the last few weeks and months of lobbying - and uber is synonymous with what is going on in this industry - has really lost all sense of proportion, ladies and gentlemen! it's not lobbying anymore if we're spreading fake news here. what i've heard here in the last few weeks of lies about working on the platform directive that everyone who uses an email address is suddenly a platform, that we would also squeeze highly skilled self-employed into employee relationships, that self-employed sales representatives would fall under this directive and, and, and. lies after lies, just to sabotage and destroy the work on this directive, to the lobbyists who stand in the corridors here before internal parliamentary meetings and cheer on members to go in and overturn this directive. that is no longer my idea of parliamentarism. that is why it is right that we do not allow ourselves to be misled here, but that we show our teeth at this point and that we make it clear: business models that only work because employees are cheated of their basic minimum rights such as access to minimum wage and social security such business models must come to an end! we in parliament have done our homework. please, madam minister, the council is called upon to do its part.
mr president, good evening, ladies and gentlemen, and good evening to the commissioner. yes, uber uber is the conversation here, uber is the discussion here. of course dennis is right. what he said earlier can only be agreed with. i have little more to say about that. that's why i want to use this, because it's not just about platform work. it's not just about uber. and i wonder, after listening to the speeches today, where have you been living these past few years? is all this new, the 124,000 pages? you should have just asked your cab driver at home. or the demonstrations that have taken place in various cities, including in france. or you can ask macron. ask macron or the french ministry of economy what uber does and how it does it. or ask obama and his staff. this is not new, but it has been reinforced and it has been made very clear. of course we have to act. i would also like to use this speech to sound out a good message. good news, as far as our mechanisms go. our caterpillar , i 'll tell you what . the players are locked up. you've been caught. the prosecution is investigating with great success. uber has been exposed and unmasked -- and not just recently, but for a long time -- and of course lobbied, as any big corporation would. but what always bothers me is that you don't want to know anything. and then all of a sudden you're standing here and you're like, "oh, my god, we didn't know anything". this is bad. yeah, that's bad, and not just uber. but i also think it is bad that there are politicians like daniel freund who abuse his position, who go out in public, go on public television, insult our entire parliament in my eyes, insult me personally and other members, because he says: they are all corrupt, the meps, very bad, only he is not. he's not corrupt, everyone else is corrupt. he gets six bottles of beer sent to him, then he shows on tv, i don't drink them, i throw them away, the others drink those bottles of beer. and that's the kind of nonsense i hear in germany. i would have expected that they would have intervened, because parliament cannot be insulted.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. why are we discussing this question today? we are discussing this issue because in italy, once again, the government is trying to make life difficult for sea rescuers for very shallow reasons. and that is a scandal, ladies and gentlemen, and we must call it that. but we also talk about it because ngos have to step in to save people in the mediterranean from distress, because there is no state-run sea rescue mission. i want to be clear here: i think it's the government's job to make sure that people who are in distress are rescued. and that is why i am also calling on the member states to finally get a sea rescue mission back on track and to ensure that ngos no longer have to step in and do the work of those who should actually do it, namely the states of the european union. but at the same time we must do everything possible, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure that people no longer have to travel on this dangerous route. and i think that this means that we have to create more legal pathways to europe, legal pathways for example in the area of resettlement - that has just been mentioned - where we as parliament finally have an agreement with the council. but we also need legal ways of entering the labour market, ladies and gentlemen. and as liberals, we have also put forward a good instrument for this. this is the talent pool where people from third countries can apply to come to europe to work with us. we have also reduced the number of people who have to take this dangerous route and the number of people who die in the mediterranean. this would be an important contribution to more human rights in europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not let's talk about italy, then. for years, the italian government has tried to harass sea rescue and activists through defamation, administrative harassment, a whole flood of court cases. the latest harassment is a recent maritime rescue decree, which is actually a call to use lethal force. this decree requires that rescue vessels, after a first rescue, must directly call at an italian port and that no rescue operations may be carried out on the same voyage. it's not even allowed! this is a call to drown. and now i'm going to say something, i'm going to ask you all: since when is a failure to help a friend legal? since when is saving lives actually a crime? i wish i could answer that question. i want to hear from you too, from all the people who are attacking the lifeguards here: have you ever wondered why they're on the high seas and buying into this? because there's no one else. ladies and gentlemen, the italian decree is contrary to the law of the sea, to human rights, to european law. it has to go. mrs. johansson, i expect you to act and not stare and close your eyes. we must act, and we must act now!
mr president while the majority of the european parliament on the left sees the organization of illegal migration, its financial and legal support as a human rights issue, hungary sees it as a national security issue and treats it accordingly, and i promise you it will be treated accordingly. because organizing illegal migration is not humanitarian aid. the worst thing they could do. the european union should recognise that illegal migration is dangerous and should not be legalised or organised but stopped because of the obvious security risks it poses. on the other hand, genuine humanitarian aid is a foreign policy priority for hungary. international development cooperation policy is an important tool in this area, because it helps us to address the root causes of migration locally and create the economic conditions that motivate these people to stay. after the extraction of africa, we should focus on helping her. we will continue to take action against the organization of illegal migration! we thank minister salvini for his work and the meloni government for its action.
the commission has already done so. no one is above the law. the law itself is neutral and does not discriminate between good and bad motives. this is one of the basic principles of our democratic order based on the rule of law. this includes: if there is an initial suspicion of a criminal offence, then it must be investigated. anyone suspected of having broken the law is subject to prosecution and accordingly also to the jurisdiction of the courts. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the procedure has shown that procedural errors are not the fault of the accused but of the accusing authority. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. rescuing people in distress at sea is an international, european, national obligation and - we have heard it more often here today - of course also a moral obligation. there is no discussion of that. but it is also an international, european and national obligation to combat smuggling, those who cynically exploit the suffering of people, endanger their lives and make a lot of money. navigating between these legal challenges and requirements is not easy for states, or ngos. that's why it's wise to work together instead of against each other. it would require reliability, it would require trust, it would require common agreements, such as a code of conduct. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. respect for law and order, full transparency on cooperation and, above all, disclosure of financial support and financial flows in the interest of the ngos themselves. you have a reputation to defend against those who use your name and your work as a cover for illegal activities. there can be no double standards here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are in politics to make reality beautiful, not to talk about it. and if we look at the reality of the external borders, it's not just not beautiful, it's just cruel. it should be enough to make us angry that so many people suffer at our external borders in search of safety and that thousands die. but the reality is much worse: several eu countries on the external borders not only do not help enough, but they hinder, criminalize and even incite against those who want to do our job and help people in need. what kind of europe is this, where you are faced with the real danger of going to prison for rescuing people at sea? what kind of europe is this where you have to hide to give soup to people who are hungry or blankets to people who are freezing? this is what happens on our external borders every day. and why is that? because people are supposed to suffer. it's part of a deterrent strategy. we have to be honest, this is no coincidence. this deterrence strategy, it's a direct attack on our rule of law. if we continue to punish people more for helping them than for making them suffer, we may as well declare ourselves morally bankrupt.
mr president, there are currently some 26 million refugees in the world, half of them children. many flee their country because of persecution, famine, war, but also because of their sexual orientation or gender identity. one thing is clear, these refugees want to build a new life elsewhere. it is a shame that ngos are being held hostage and that human dignity is being overtaken by criminalization. the seas must not become the coffins of thousands of refugees. recent decrees by eu governments criminalize humanitarian aid because ngos are forced to violate the right to rescue enshrined in international maritime law. is this a call to let people drown when humanitarian assistance to refugees is blocked through laws? we must mobilize and stand up against this situation which goes against our values. because every human being has the right to flee and be received with dignity.
author. – mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, violence only promotes more violence. the best time to end the century—old hate in nagorno—karabakh was 30 years ago. the second best time is now. why should the caucasus be a land of hostility when it can be a land of prosperity? imagine all the possibilities. a train running from baku to yerevan and beyond, old friends who became enemies becoming friends again, investments flowing freely and fairly and prosperity built on the solid ground of cooperation, not hate. for this to happen, 120 000 armenians who endure an inhuman blockade must be allowed to live in peace and without fear of ethnic cleansing. azerbaijanis who were too forced to flee should be allowed to return to their homes peacefully. an honest peace deal can never be brokered by russia. russia creates chaos only to benefit from it. instead, the eu can and should bring sustainable peace to both countries, because it is our european value and interest to see a peaceful and prosperous caucasus.
author. – mr president, dear colleagues, if you play with fire next to a haystack, don’t be surprised if the thing catches fire. if you spread lies for months and months about the electoral system that is broken and the elections that will be stolen, don’t act like you’re surprised if those democratic institutions are literally catching fire. so i say to you, jair bolsonaro, that the storming of the democratic institutions in brasília is your personal responsibility, with your attacks on democracy and its defenders, with your lies, with your spreading of hate and your attempts to divide society. democracies are not only under threat in brazil, the right wing is also attacking them in the us, in the eu and elsewhere. and the right—wing playbook, like samira said, is always very similar: they spread fear, anger, fake news with the help of social media platforms built on algorithms, which prefer spreading polarising hate. let’s counter this with our democratic playbook. we need to do everything in our power to strengthen independent media, foster civil society, boost education and regulate big platforms here and in brazil. today, we in the european parliament stand in full solidarity with the democratically elected government in brazil, and in full solidarity with all the brazilians who are defending democracy.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 19 january 2023.
the next item is the debate on five motions for resolutions on the situation of journalists in morocco, in particular the case of omar radi (2023/2506 ((rsp)) *.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 19 january 2023. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr joão pimenta lopes, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the situation and prospects of small-scale fishing in the eu (2021/2056 (ini)) (a9-0291/2022).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 19 january 2023. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item on the agenda is the explanations of vote.
that concludes this item.
the next meeting will be held tomorrow, thursday, 19 january 2023, at 9.00 a.m. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the minutes of this sitting will be submitted to parliament for approval tomorrow at the beginning of the afternoon session.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for this report. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. the challenge is to strengthen democracy. we've discussed it several times here this week, and we can see that where people can contribute, where people can shape their work environment, democracy is strengthened. i am not surprised that the far right in this house - the id - does not place such a high priority on strengthening democracy and that they equate this with bureaucracy. but that's a mistake. if we look at the directive on the establishment of a european works council, one of the great innovations was that we made these design rights transnational. many have already said that times have changed since 1994 and that the last adjustment was not enough. we have huge transformations ahead of us, huge. it's about the green deal, the implementation, the digitization. and so this is the opportunity to actually strengthen democracy, to strengthen the champions of democracy in the workplace, who are transnational, and here, as the report suggests, to close loopholes and strengthen social rights. i would also like to say a word of caution to the commission: take note of this report. so, just seeing the report is not enough. we need a commission which delivers here and which actually takes up this broad idea of actually strengthening democracy in the workplace, and not just takes note of it. i would like to make one more point: i can only recommend to those who have doubts: what are these european works councils? this will only create new bureaucracy: look around your home town, in your region, where you live, talk to the european works councils. i did that with a few people yesterday, and they expect us to deliver here so that we can really say, we're equipped to meet the challenges. and we cannot allow a substantial part of it to be deprived of democratic rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. let me start by saying something to the right of it: mrs bilde has illustrated very well how she reacts to the need to strengthen the rights of workers. i find it outrageous that representatives of the far right are opposing the rights of workers and at the same time are acting in the member states as if they were the representatives of workers. ladies and gentlemen, on the subject itself, the word democracy is often used in this house. but i want to make it clear: if participation in decision-making at the factory gate ends, then we cannot and must not speak of democracy. imagine that in the famous case of renault belgium, the euro-working councils only learned from the newspaper that the plant was to be closed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is perhaps the most conspicuous area in the european union where the rule of law is shamelessly ignored and rights are violated. why would you do that? because there is no enforcement capacity for works councils and there is virtually no threat of sanctions against the companies. the few euros in penalties that companies have to pay for disregarding the co-determination of works councils can be paid from the purse. we are not talking about small failures and small companies, but about companies worth many millions and billions of euros. for example, deutsche telekom would only have to pay a fine of eur 15 000. probably the company will pay more for toilet paper in a year. that has to change! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to participate in the decisionmaking process. ladies and gentlemen, yesterday there were euro-working councils here in parliament, all reporting on the same problems. they are too late informed and insufficiently involved. we must therefore strengthen euro-works councils, give them access to courts and make it clear that decisions by companies are suspended until they are consulted. no, ladies and gentlemen, it is not only the management that is responsible for what happens in a company. remember, the majority of the workforce are the workers.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are talking today about strengthening the european works councils. a subject that is very close to my heart, because i was a works councillor. i was elected as a youth representative in my first year of apprenticeship, and later became a youth spokesman responsible for 10 000 apprentices - that's how many apprentices there were in the mining industry in germany in the early 1990s! i know how important works councils are because they are the link between the workforce and management. i 'll go further . i believe that works councils - good works councils - are even better managers, because they have in mind not only the welfare of the employees and social peace, but also the success of the company. because only a successful, strong company can pay its employees a decent wage. the success of the works councils is due to two reasons: firstly, the german workers' constitutional law, the best law in the world on participation. if anyone in europe wants to do something for the co-determination, then he should adopt german law. but this is a national task and not an eu task. and then works councils are also so important because they are very close, because they come from the company, because they are practitioners. in contrast to the functionaries of the dgb unions in germany. most of them are no longer in the company, and they play politics. they're playing politics and they're supporting the green deal. and in doing so, they betray the interests of german workers. the works councils do not do that, thank god. i am in contact with many works councils: with works councils in the automotive industry, the chemical industry, the steel industry, with works councils in glass, paper, ceramic and cement factories. they want to keep the high-paying, value-added jobs. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has already taken a number of important decisions on the subject.
the commission has already done so. i think we can see from the debate that we are all relatively united in parliament. we do not feel very involved, but we really want to help the project succeed, and i think if you look at the commission's website, you can see a little bit of where the problem might be. so the homepage says, "global gateway". it's beautifully worded, but basically it says: we're about to invest up to 300 billion euros in digital, climate, energy, transport, health, education and research, and in doing so, we're going to respect democratic values, high standards, accountability, transparency, partnerships at par with each other, which are also environmentally friendly and clean. but what are these projects exactly, to look at: what's going on? is this more of a headline, a nice way to dress up something that's already happening? or: where can we actually have parliamentary control? unfortunately, this is not available on the european commission's website, and that makes it a little difficult to understand: are these really, in the end, mainly beautiful projects or beautiful words that we find? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on development and cooperation. there are many concerns: are the development policy objectives - not just the objectives, but also the mandatory expenditure under the indi/europe in the world instrument - still the priority for development policy in certain areas? is geopolitics at the forefront? are financial interests at the forefront? i do not think that the point is to draw up contradictions between these different interests. but i think that we as a parliament are also driven to look at how we can ensure that the money goes where it is needed - not just where it finds the most investment, a large, investment-friendly environment. how do we make these projects sustainable? i think it is very important - if this initiative is to succeed - that we work with the development community, with parliament, but above all with the partner countries to make sure that it succeeds, and i have to be honest, that is what i am lacking at the moment.
mr president, the global gateway strategy is a priori in line with the sustainable development goals (sdgs). however, it seems to focus on the exploitation of energy resources, such as hydrogen, from developing countries for export to the european union. the european union has developed many projects in sub-saharan africa, but these projects do not cover the energy consumption of these countries. more than 500 million people, or 75% of the population of the african continent, do not have access to electricity. the use of green hydrogen raises many questions for our partners. these new gateway investments should be an opportunity that could positively influence our relations. however, at the interparliamentary meeting with the pan-african parliament last month in brussels, as well as in the development committee, it would appear that many issues remain unresolved. what does the global gateway mean for our partners in practice? how can this new strategy mitigate resilience to climate change in developing countries? how can it also strengthen our credibility when the information is vague? in the context of our post-cotonou agreements and the eu-africa strategy, it is essential that this new strategy is compatible with the objectives of our partnership.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. until xi took office, there was hope that cooperation with china would be a win-win situation for all parties involved. but since 2012 at the latest, china has been unable to overcome its desire to import resources for its own economy, just like other countries, due to a different self-concept and a new anchoring in world politics. emerging resource hunger, presented in the new silk road and in the role of active geopolitical actor china has since moved ahead unabated, and is now entering into partnerships with the eu and our immediate neighbours in the western balkans and eastern europe, which have since proven to be a poisoned gift: debt trap, infiltration of the media and public space with misinformation, cyber and industrial espionage are the most salient problems that many countries are now facing. it was high time that the eu finally responded to the chinese investment offers with the global gateway initiative. the eu is late, but not too late, to protect its own security of critical infrastructure, as well as in the eu's neighbourhood and beyond. it should be in our own and global interest to extract and use the resources available in a more sustainable and socially responsible way.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. you want to talk about the practice of sustainable investment funds today. i want to go a little bit more fundamental and go a little bit further and talk about sustainable investments in general, because the most sustainable investment is in our families and in our christian values. but this union is no longer investing in its people and its values. at one time, nations worked together on equal terms to strengthen their economies. today they have become a political union in which the richer countries are expected to pay for the poorer ones, yes, for the poor of the whole world. we see this in the war, for example, in ukraine, which is now being used to justify a billion-dollar monthly donation to the government of ukraine. we see this in the so-called corona pandemic, which has led to a kind of health union in which member states are no longer allowed to decide what is best for them in a self-defined emergency. and we see it in the green deal, which also involves the so-called reconstruction fund, which is a huge amount of money that nobody can imagine or afford anymore. because of all these wrong developments, we now face threats of high inflation and poverty, as well as rising rates of depression and even suicide. in these difficult times, an investment in our people and our economies would be an appropriate, necessary and sustainable investment. but no, not with us! the eu prefers to invest in the green deal and other programmes that damage our economies and drive our hardworking people to despair because they can no longer afford a normal life. our economies and cultures are being thrown overboard for green ideologies, and the people of europe are suffering from terrorism, violence and discrimination due to anti-semitism and anti-christianity. even expressions of our christian heritage such as christmas and st. martin's day are now considered discriminatory. it is time for us to wake up, recognize the truth and make the necessary changes for a better future. no more green deal madness, no more ideological awakening, no more gender madness and no more mass immigration! dear colleagues, let's start investing in our lives, our future, our families and our culture - that would be a really good and sustainable investment.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, on behalf of my group, i would propose a debate with a different title that actually focuses on the facts that we want to debate here. so, the title would be ‘commission statement on recent violent attacks against diplomatic personnel in the european union and counter—measures, including improving detention conditions’. i think this is a lot more accurate description of the facts we want to debate.
mr president, madam minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. disappointment and hope are very closely linked when it comes to migration. looking back at the future conference, we can see that citizens are extremely disappointed that europe is not able to act on migration, and that many problems are caused by europe's inability to act. and that is why it is extremely important to see that this is about european solutions. i think the hope is indeed the roadmap here and that parliament has agreed a timetable with five council presidencies. but as i listen to this and watch the pace, i wonder if we can achieve that in the time we have left. and when i see that you always want to pick out raisins here - some points, some the screening, others the other points: this will only work if it is a package that is really based on international law, our values, human rights. and i'll say this again: i'm from the wall city. building walls and fences has always been a bankruptcy, never part of the solution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i think i hear the words of the christian democrats in this chamber, that we should move forward on the migration pact. but i'm starting to doubt that's what they really want. have you seen the ugly face of the far right in the speeches in this chamber today? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i am not going to go into detail. we have agreed here in this parliament on a roadmap, together, to move forward on the asylum and migration pact. be willing to compromise. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. let us work together to ensure that we have a single european system. if you really want to reduce the number of people drowning in the mediterranean, ladies and gentlemen, then do not let the ngos get their hopes up, but let them have a state-run maritime rescue mission so that we do not have to leave this to the ngos. i think that the commission has a duty to take account of the fact that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i say to you: in the middle we are ready to work with you and to find compromises to bring about a good european solution. but we won't go after you if you go to the extreme right.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am quite frankly a little puzzled by the comments made by the right wing of this parliament on this subject, and have been for years. it is not new that people are now proposing to build fences, that we must increase deportations, that we must return the people of the mediterranean to where they came from. these are not new ideas. this is what these people on the right of parliament have been saying for at least 20 years, and the conservatives have been in power in many countries for 20 years, and yet nothing has happened. so i'm wondering, is it because isolation isn't the answer to our problem? it could be. it could be that if you propose to bring people back to libya, even though the european court of human rights has forbidden you to do so, that in the end it doesn't happen. i mean, why do we keep confusing people with really weird contributions, instead of making it clear to them that migration is a reality, migration will be a reality, that we have a job to manage all this, but that we shouldn't hide behind some wild conspiracy theories that we've been failing for years, but that we should take our job seriously and really start working together now? and not just with the migration pact, because in the end it's not going to solve all of our problems, but by putting forward the political will to actually address this problem. i honestly don't see that in many of the speeches i've heard today.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by mr sandro gozi, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the transparency and targeting of political advertising (com (2021) 0731 c9‐0433/2021 2021/0381 cod)) (a9-0009/2023).
draft opinion of the consultative committee on constitutional affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the next european elections are coming up, and that means, of course, that the next few months will be even more heated in the european parliament. we'll fight more, we'll attack each other, there will be campaigns. all this is part of democracy, part of the debate on the best vision for europe. what cannot be is that campaigns are funded by third parties, by outsiders, by dubious dictators who have no other goal than to destroy our democracy. the right wing in this house is particularly well aware of this. you can get luxury travel, putin-sponsored hotels on the way to moscow. at least this needs to be disclosed, but if putin is funding their next online hate campaign, we can't see that yet. and it's good that now it's finally going to be transparent, that in the future you can see who is funding these campaigns. the citizens of europe have a right to know who is simply spreading hatred or who is seeking a good vision for the european union, and that is why this is a good proposal.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the term cambridge analytica has been used many times today and is familiar to many. but what did this company do? it has created psychological profiles - very precise data profiles - of people to then influence their voting behaviour through content that is very precisely tailored to them. in the most innocuous case, that could mean a political candidate getting her picture taken with a cat to send an ad to cat lovers, and with a dog to send ads and commercials to dog lovers. but in the more serious case -- and this is what's happening today -- it says that, for example, black voters in the swing districts, the crucial voting districts in the united states, in 2016, were discouraged from voting by suggesting to them with facebook ads that it wasn't worth it. this is the norm of political advertising today, rather than the exception. but with such data profiles, a party can also send very different messages to different groups of voters, for example: free travel for all no new laws! to older people and climate first! to younger people. it's not compatible with our public democracy that you don't have to answer for what you say as a party anymore. it is our responsibility to communicate clearly and to take responsibility for it. democracy needs a common public, and that's what we're bringing forward with this bill. targeted political advertising based on highly personal characteristics is restricted and completely banned 60 days before the election. this is an important step towards strong democracy and fair elections.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. ladies and gentlemen! i don't think it's necessary to convince anyone that the phenomenon of election interference is extremely dangerous, as we have seen in the famous example of cambridge analytica. the protection, transparency and integrity of the electoral process is no longer just about protecting our fundamental values, but about 'to be or not to be' the rule of law or the common european project. it is therefore of the utmost importance that our electorate be fully aware of the fact that a given message constitutes political advertising and of the source of the funding of such advertising. i believe that the proposed regulation is also a sign of respect for the electorate, as it gives them the tools they need to make informed decisions. at the same time, we will be able to effectively counter the phenomenon of disinformation or external interference in elections.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. as a social democrat in the european parliament, i am here today to talk about the regulation of political advertising. we must be clear that the regulation of political advertising is not intended to regulate all political expression. freedom of political expression is an important part of our democracy. it gives citizens a voice and enables them to inform themselves and discuss political matters. we must not equate this free expression of political opinion with paid advertising. over-regulation of political advertising can lead to the endangerment of free political speech online. we must ensure that political expression and debate can continue to take place freely and unimpeded, unhampered by regulations. however, we must also face the reality that there are practices that can jeopardise the integrity of political advertising, such as misleading information or conflicts of interest. we need to regulate here, but in a way that ensures that free political expression is not impaired.
madam president, dear commissioner, colleagues, many voters in modern democracies base their choice on who to cast their vote for on what they read online on social media. i can hardly think of a bigger threat to our democracies than this because if twitter, for example, is that town square mr musk is talking about, then should it be allowed for just one or two political parties to give speeches on that town square and not for others? should it be allowed for just one or two political parties on the town square to paste posters? hell no! yet this is exactly what is happening online when social media algorithms draw voters into that rabbit hole and isolate them from pluralistic offerings of political views. on that town square, it may also never ever be allowed for authoritarian states such as russia or china to finance, and therefore dictate, which political advertisements the people in that town of mr musk would get to see. the legislation we have before us today fills me with pride because it is tackling exactly such problems for the entire eu. we take matters into our own hands and we keep our democracy safe. my thanks to the rapporteur, mr gozi.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the european elections. in the context of political advertising and transparency, the elections that are coming up next year will actually show how much citizens trust the european parliament. my colleagues on my right may be particularly concerned about this. we also witness constant attempts to interfere in democratic processes, which are particularly intensified before election cycles. we need to know who's behind the ads, who's paying for the ads, and citizens and voters have a right to political pluralism. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the market, in particular on the market for the advertising of political parties and political groups. in my country, croatia, there's a separate account for financing the costs of election campaigns, and election reports, and media advertising reports. it's a good pointer and a good way. you know exactly who's spending how much money in what media and what.
i have to say, madam president, tomorrow will be a good day for european democracy. the european parliament will rally by a large majority behind the objective of stopping political surveillance advertising online to protect our democracy from manipulation. by the way, tomorrow will be a good day for youtubers like rezo, who are not scheduled to face any restrictions. so, dear rezo, the next time you call for the destruction of the cdu or maybe the next time you call for the destruction of the plans to control chat, you are safe hands on! on the other hand, the european commission, eu governments and big tech companies do not want to change anything about the current situation. and that would mean that anti-democratic and anti-european forces could continue to use surveillance advertising to place hate messages and lies on the voters who are most susceptible to them, and in this way to undermine our democracy. and we will fight to make sure that this approach of watching doesn't take hold, we will fight to make sure that our privacy, our democracy, is protected from these machinations.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 2 february 2023. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the need to promptly update the eu list of high-risk third countries for the purpose of combating money laundering and terrorist financing (2023/2532 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the qatar affair shows that the eu must step up its fight against money laundering. an important step in this direction would be the ambitious expansion of the eu list of high-risk third countries that take little action against money laundering or terrorist financing. the list currently includes 25 countries, including usual suspects such as afghanistan, north korea, iran, panama and morocco. however, according to the ngo tax justice network, countries such as the united arab emirates and even the united states are among the top ten countries in the world that are most open to money laundering. the uae is even on the financial action task force's blacklist of jurisdictions that are under increased scrutiny. we support your fight against money laundering, but please don't just fight pyongyang, but your friends in dubai and delaware.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for your interventions in this debate. i have to say that i take note of all your remarks. let me also emphasise that we will continue working together with you and our partner countries as the fight against money laundering and terrorist finance is our common endeavour. so we look forward to continuing our good cooperation and thank you again for your support.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you again for giving me the floor. i followed your valuable contributions with great interest on this issue and also about the future, and i also heard the commission’s contribution. as i said in my introductory remarks, we expect the council’s examination of the new list to be concluded fairly soon, and certainly by the 20 february deadline. preliminary views expressed by the member states lead me to think that the council will not object to the delegated act, as i said also in my first statement, and also i explained why the delay of one month. as mr lópez aguilar stressed, we will also soon start the negotiations on anti—money laundering legislative files. that is currently on the table. the anti—money laundering regulation, in particular, will further codify eu rules as regards third countries. we look forward to our negotiations on those files as soon as you are ready. the swedish presidency will maintain close contact with parliament and all the rapporteurs for the anti—money laundering legislative files. i will finally just take the opportunity to again reaffirm the importance that the presidency attaches to the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism. as i said in my introductory remarks, this is one of the swedish priorities: security. thank you again very much for the debate and for your attention.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in afghanistan (2023/2533 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, i have engaged with this house on a regular basis since august 2021 on the situation in afghanistan. today, unfortunately, is an appropriate time to discuss this with you again. i appreciate the opportunity to open this debate also on behalf of hr/vp borrell. in mid-december, we saw the taliban introduce additional restrictions on afghan women. they are now excluded not only from secondary level, but also from university level, education. on 24 december, the taliban issued a decree barring afghan women from working in ngos. the european union strongly denounced these decisions. furthermore – and this is worth emphasising – the organisation of islamic cooperation made it clear that these decisions had been taken in violation of the purposes of islamic law. the humanitarian community has been forced into an operational pause in afghanistan as female staff are essential for the effective delivery of aid, particularly to women and children. let me be clear about what this means. in the depth of winter, with temperatures now dropping as low as -30 degrees celsius and with more than 28 million afghans in need of humanitarian support, the taliban have taken a decision to prevent the delivery of aid and assistance services to afghans most in need. even though some of our partners are now able to resume services in areas where exceptions have been made – these are mainly related to the delivery of health services and in primary education – there are still ongoing debates on the way forward. we discussed these latest developments with the eu foreign ministers last week, who also manifested strong concerns. the united nations deputy secretary general, amina mohammed, was in brussels last week after her visit to afghanistan and other countries in the region. she shared with us the results and her engagements with the afghan de facto authorities and the search for a common position for the international community. maintaining unity and coordination with our partners, the united nations and ngos, will be crucial. one thing is clear: the current context is not business as usual, and we cannot act as if nothing had happened. we are assessing the different options at hand, yet our response to the taliban must be calibrated against the need to protect afghans, save lives and deliver assistance to the most vulnerable – especially women and children. we cannot allow the humanitarian crisis in afghanistan to deepen even further. that is our priority and it underscores everything we do in afghanistan and all our engagements. a year ago now, the eu delegation returned to kabul to help the afghans in need and to show our continued support for the afghan people. since august 2021, the european union has mobilised eur 419 million for humanitarian aid and more than eur 400 million for basic needs and livelihoods. the eu’s presence and engagement show our continued commitment to the afghan people and their future. i look forward to hearing your views on the way forward.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are facing a huge dilemma in afghanistan. should we continue to provide humanitarian aid to the suffering civilian population, given that the taliban are violating our most fundamental principles and now also the human right of women to participate in society and to education? i think that question is tearing many of us apart. but the eu is the biggest donor of aid, and we as parliament are co-legislators of the budget, we have to ask ourselves this question. i speak to you today in my personal capacity as a christian democrat, as the mother of two children, one of whom is a daughter. and i think to myself: we in the eu have given afghan women a lot of hope, and we have supported them wherever we could. we cannot turn our backs on them now, when it is a matter of mere survival. we must hope - and there are signs - that the new rules will be further interpreted locally and that they will be extended through the pragmatism of the local aid organisations. what cannot be is the taliban diverting some of the aid money for their own purposes. i ask the commission to take a clear line and to hold us to account. at this moment, i see the only glimmer of hope for change in the afghan women. we must not allow them to become weaker, sicker and more marginalized. they must have access to education again. these must be our demands. i think we have a better chance of implementing them if we keep a foot in the door on humanitarian aid than if we say goodbye.
i have to say, madam president, afghan girls and women are living a devastating nightmare: no access to schools, no access to universities, literally excluded from the life of knowledge and education! an entire generation of women in afghanistan is threatened with social oblivion. the female voice of afghanistan, it's being stifled by the taliban. women and girls are being cynically, unprecedentedly and brutally destroyed in their existence. the taliban's training ban is destructive and ruthless. let's do something, please! every day we don't act is a surrender to the taliban. every day we don't act, we leave the women and girls of afghanistan behind. what we need now is a broad alliance for an online university in afghanistan. this online university offers bachelor's and master's degree programs to afghan men and women both in afghanistan and in exile, to start or continue their studies. many afghan university teachers have had to flee and can continue teaching and researching at the online university. we are opening a window for the young people of afghanistan to have a self-determined and courageous perspective beyond oppression and hostility.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in afghanistan, there is now 65 per cent unemployment, 90 per cent of the people are hungry and 20 million women - you described it well in the speeches before - 20 million women in afghanistan are deprived and, one can also say, deprived of their future. it's really cruel how the taliban are dealing with this country, how they are making society a pawn of their ideology. and i can say that i think it's not just me, but a lot of people who are involved in this debate, that you actually start to feel helpless. what more can be done to bring the taliban to their senses? i think it's right to look for leverage, but i think it would be wrong to look for too simple leverage, like saying we have to cut humanitarian aid now because the taliban are so bad with the population. i think it's important to uphold the humanitarian principles. humanitarian aid must not be politicized. but we also have to look for other ideas. one idea - which i think we could easily implement together with the european commission, the european parliament and the member states - is that we give scholarships to many afghan women and girls in afghanistan's neighbouring countries. we could start a scholarship program in, for example, tajikistan, in pakistan, and in the next few years, i would say, even offer hundreds of thousands of women and girls a future that they probably don't have in afghanistan.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the german foreign minister has coined a new word: feminist foreign policy. and mrs von der leyen also likes to talk about women's rights. i'll look at afghanistan. for 20 years, nato waged a war in afghanistan, supposedly to defend the woman. after 20 years of nato bombing, how is the woman in afghanistan? it's worse than ever. now the taliban can oppress the people and the women in afghanistan, even with western technology and western weapons. they left nothing but rubble and ashes. and as if that wasn't enough, now the german foreign minister says she wants to cut the funds, the aid funds for afghanistan this winter. i say very clearly: if this is the green foreign policy, the feminist foreign policy, then i say no, thank you! the ngos are rightly railing against the german government's plans to reduce the number of afghans.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i wanted to point out that it has become so commonplace - especially on the right of the parliament - that people simply say that the aid organisations rescuing people from the sea are to blame for people fleeing across the mediterranean. it's become so commonplace, you can't even justify it. there is no argument for this, but it is simply claimed that the ngos are to blame for the flight across the mediterranean. they're the ones who drown people. and it's hardly noticeable that there's never an argument. i would therefore like to say again very briefly that it is simply not worth repeating this. these ngos were formed after so many people drowned. there are many studies that prove that ngos do not contribute to more ships being launched. and it's just that, even if you look at the numbers from last year, 2022, and you can take note of that, 90 percent of people arrive in italy either by being rescued by the coast guard or not at all, but they arrive on their own. just under 10 percent of the people were rescued by civilian marine rescue organizations. so it's not important to the people or to the criminal trafficking groups in libya. the reason people are quitting is not because there are ngos. it's just important that we acknowledge this reality. (the president cut the speaker off)
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the eu-ukraine summit (2023/2509 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear colleagues, we have now watched 12 months of russia’s brutal war and 12 months of ukraine’s brave resistance. against all odds the people of ukraine prove to the world that they can and will win this war. for their victory, ukraine needs our continued support. we must increase the pressure of sanctions on the russian economy and provide ukraine with the weapons it needs. the morale and motivation of ukraine defenders, combined with our western support, is what truly terrifies putin. but winning the war alone will not be enough for an eu membership. other fundamental steps need to be taken, the sooner the better. even during a war, ukraine is fighting corruption. this progress should now be made structural and accelerated tenfold. societies in europe need assurance that oligarchs pulling dirty schemes, governmental officials stealing from the army, and judges robbing the country will all be brought to justice fairly and transparently. media freedom cannot be compromised, not even during wartime. democracy is strong when power is shared, not monopolised. this is what sets apart ukraine from russia. ukraine is a european state with a european future. its people will not walk the european path alone. they have the entire democratic world behind them.
i have to say, madam president, who would have thought that a year ago? this european union has shown that we are ready to meet the challenges of this historic moment. who would have thought? now we must make our eu fit for the important challenge of enlargement and ukraine ukrainian society and economy fit for the union. it will be a long journey, and our ukrainian friends know this, but we will walk this path together. and that is our peace logic, that is our peace logic. we do not always agree with the commission, but this time the commission's trip to kiev is on behalf of all the citizens of the union. it is a sign of our peaceful logic and our desire for peace, because it supports a country that has been invaded, humiliated and plundered, but that has stood up to aggression with courage because this country wants one thing: peace. and we're all in on it.
i have to say, madam president, despite all the sanctions, the russian economy continues to grow unabated, according to the imf, at least faster than the german economy. our citizens, on the other hand, are getting poorer because of high energy prices and inflation. nevertheless, the call for an extension of the sanctions is being made, even though it is only china, turkey and, of course, the usa that are actually benefiting from them. how resistant to learning are we in this parliament? in april 2022, selensky broke off negotiations with russia after the arms deliveries were guaranteed. the result is tens of thousands of soldiers and civilians killed senselessly. thousands of villages and towns have been wiped out, and no serious war observer sees any realistic chance of ukrainian victory. yet you all want to expand the arms supply. are tens of thousands of dead people not enough for you? i call on you and the governments of the eu member states to abandon this obvious error and finally accept that we are dealing with a different reality than we see here in parliament. let's stop this undignified death!
catch-the-eye procedure president. – we are really good in time, so we have more than five requests for the catch-the-eye, but as we are good in time i can take them all. so be prepared.
i have to say, madam president, the eu could turn the eu-ukraine summit into a peace summit. but instead you are shouting in this house as if it were 1914. you say that on the battlefield, ukraine will win this war. i'll tell you what the chief of staff of the united states, mark milley, said. he said it's unlikely that ukraine can win this war militarily. i ask you: do you want to go into this war as a nato country and officially start world war iii? if not, then stop shouting at the battlefield! then you're looking for a political solution! never has ukraine been so dependent on the west, militarily and economically, as it is at the moment. don't take advantage of this shamelessly. don't send more people to die in the ukraine. the eu is indeed a party to the war, but it does not bleed on the battlefield. the poor ukrainian and russian soldiers are bleeding on the battlefield, and that is why i appeal to all the parties to the conflict, both direct and indirect, to russia and to nato: stop this war!
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, dear colleagues, who would have thought that, five years after we criticized president trump for building walls to mexico, the european council would propose to build walls in europe? and who would have thought that two decades and more after the fall of the iron curtain, we would have, or even have considered, proposals to build walls around europe? okay, they call it, still very technocratic, ‘border protection’. they call ‘armour-like technocratic border protection capability and infrastructure’. but we are not fooled. we know what it is and let us see it straight, therefore. every euro that will be put into fences and borders is a euro that cannot be used to help someone else and protect the vulnerable. therefore, we want to hear from the commission and the council their points of view about this term and the use of eu funds to build a fortress europe. this is why we, as the s&d, urge you to support this – especially at a time also where we look, as the president said, with horror to the situation in türkiye and syria. so please, i ask you to support this.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. dear party friend from europe, who revealed to me yesterday that she lost four family members in turkey. dearest friend in berlin, who confided in me yesterday how much she misses her two cousins, who only survived because they took a smoke break. and she will always miss the other 14 family members who were non-smokers and did not survive because of it. dear brothers and sisters in idlib, hatay, afrin, diyarbakır, adıyaman, gölbaşı, i would like to thank you for your support and for your support for the peace process in syria. dear brothers and sisters in kassel and cologne, in barcelona and stockholm, who mourn for their brothers and sisters. we stand with you, we cry with you. but we must also act. it is good that the commission and the member states are sending money and equipment to turkey and syria. but i just spoke to some people from turkey and syria; they all ask for one thing: make sure that this aid actually reaches the needy! ensures that those in need can also enter the eu for treatment not at any time; i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. and finally, distribute european money to organizations not recognized by the assad regime! i'm talking specifically about white helmets. let's not let assad decide who lives and who dies right now! let us be straightforward in this hour of humanity.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. my thoughts are with the people of turkey, with my friends. cities are destroyed, including the city where i was born. my phone is ringing all the time, messages from people in turkey who are desperate and don't know where to go. the village i was in last october is 80% destroyed, and at the same time yesterday i saw a video on instagram of afad, the government rescue agency, rescuing bank vaults from the rubble, not people. and i saw angry people shouting, "our families are everywhere, our loved ones, and you're worried about bank vaults? and yes, indeed, it is a toxic mixture of unbridled greed and corrupt one-man rule that has resulted from this natural disaster that was not preventable but has caused this human tragedy. people are right to be outraged. i'm outraged too. help at the most important hours and still not arrive. the erdoğan administration seems more concerned with power than saving lives at the moment. and there is a fear that the regime will respond to the legitimate outrage of the people with repression. already, pressure is being put on critical voices. so it takes two things: we need humanitarian and emergency aid now. we need help. but we must also continue to look at turkey, what happens in the next few months.
i have to say, madam president, children who will never see their parents again, women who mourn their sons, and a man who just won't let go of the hand of his dead daughter. the images you see these days, and especially the fates behind them, are disturbing, tragic, and actually leave you speechless. and while we know that not everything went well with the aid, i think we have to admit that we as the european union have tried to help quickly. i would also like to thank commissioner lenarčič for that. we can only hope that the donor conference is a success now. but i also believe that making money decisions on your own is not the only thing. help has to come eventually. and for that we need joint pressure against border closures and misuse of funds. but we also need to find ways to support smaller organizations like the white helmets. but i also believe that we cannot help all the people in the region - we know that, i think, ourselves. and i can imagine that it would be very important to issue visas quickly now, at least for those victims who have family in europe. what's the problem with people from northern syria or turkey, who have family here, being taken care of by the family until they have a roof over their heads and can go back? i think that would be a sign of strength, and we would be very weak if we were afraid of the victims of this disaster.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are supposed to be talking about this. but let's be honest, of course it's a political issue. we are talking about a mr erdoğan, a mr bashar al-assad and a mr putin who have been holding hands for a very long time over turkey, syria and kurdish syria. now the cry is loud: we must stop the eu sanctions. this is - i like to explain this - not like the american sanctions, but the eu sanctions sanction people-centered, that is, assad's people. the population has nothing to do with it. the first thing that was said after the earthquake was the voice, very loud: we must stop sanctions. and the people said, "please don't! and if you send aid - if it ever arrives in erbil in northern syria, because the people in idlib are still waiting for it - then it must not go into the pocket of assad or any radical, undemocratic - you can choose - pockets. so we have to look very closely, commissioner, at where eu money is going. this is very, very important, otherwise it gets the wrong people.
madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, the eu’s reaction to the corona crisis was, in hindsight, quite impressive. it brought us the recovery fund, led to coordinated vaccine production and ultimately made sure that no eu country fell significantly behind. i’m therefore a big fan of the recovery fund, i’m a fan especially also because it basically conditioned all spending on green and digital investment and made sure that not a single euro would go into projects that harm the environment. but now i have to admit that the recent reaction i don’t find that impressive. to diversify from russian gas, we are now subsidising private companies with public money to build lng terminals and gas pipelines. we fought hard to limit these potential spendings in oil and gas, and i ask the member states to make sure that they do not spend any dollar in these industries. i think also, if i look now at the newest ideas of state aid, there’s again the idea of potentially allowing gas and oil companies to benefit, and i would just repeat once again that innovation and competitive power come from good institutions and good competition and not by weakening state aid and furthering gas and oil.
rapporteur. – madam president, president zelenskyy reminded us last week of what it means to be european. europe is the ideal of diversity, the rule of law, social justice and, above all, peace and democracy. a democracy that, for example, just in the previous debate, we can see where we are fighting for our political ideals rather than just for national interests, at least in principle. but our democracy has left some space for improvement. over the last 40 years, we didn’t really update the foundations of how we vote, and over the last 15 years, we didn’t update the functioning of the european union as such. why? because our national leaders don’t seem to care too much. if you look at it last year, we triggered the treaty changes and there was no real effect yet until now. no national leader really reacted. we triggered electoral law reforms and, again, nothing. when we look at the right of initiative, there’s also no improvement from the council side and the same for the right of inquiry. but we should really safeguard our democracy and so i’m happy that at least on this side, when we now look at the rights of mobile citizens, of those citizens that move from one member state to the next, we do see some improvement. and i do want to thank the shadows for the good cooperation in trying to strengthen their rights. what have we achieved in this report? we propose to the council to allow for immediate registration so that whenever you come to a new country, you don’t leave your rights as a citizen of the european union at the borders, but you can actually take them with you and exercise them easily. we want to make it more accessible to vote. so that means that we want to make information available in all languages. we want to make it easier for vulnerable and marginalised groups to vote. we want to make it easier for even people with disabilities, older persons, homeless people to cast their vote. it’s also important that we take note of what works well in different member states. and so we also recommend to update electoral laws when it comes to postal voting, advance physical voting, proxy voting, mobile polling stations, and also electronic and online voting to make use of modern technologies. we do believe that it should be possible for everyone without derogation to stand as a candidate, as an eu citizen in the different member states. and it’s now, i think, imperative that we stand together and try to put pressure on the national leaders to actually implement these rights. because if you look at it, from the 11 million eu citizens who live in different countries right now, only a very marginal part actually stands as candidates. there’s a low voters turnout as well but it’s really striking that in the 2019 elections only over 1 % of the candidates were actually coming from a different member state. we can do so much more. we can be a real transnational, pan-european democracy. but for that, dear colleagues, we really need to make sure that our strong results that we got in our negotiations are also implemented by the council and that we do get a treaty change and that we do get an update of our electoral law in general.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. commissioner jourová has just said: we have a window of time, a small window of time before the european elections, where we can still act and make sure that the 11 million eu citizens we have in europe who live in another country love to work, that they really participate in the european elections. and yes, theoretically, they can. it has been an important step forward, but we still have so many obstacles, whether it is the language barriers that have been used here or sometimes bureaucratic procedures, which make it difficult for someone who works there but is not familiar with the bureaucracies to actually exercise his rights. and that is why it is right that we make a new push to strengthen democracy for eu citizens, because the fundamental right to vote also means, in practice, that it signals: here i am at home, here i want to participate in deciding who represents my interests in europe, in the european parliament. and that is why there is still a strong need for action here.
rapporteur. – madam president, thank you, colleagues, thank you also, commissioner, for the positive words. just one quick word upfront to our colleagues from the far right. i think you’ve still not really understood history because nations were created to overcome smaller units called kingdoms and dukedoms, and back then being a nationalist was being for progress. and i think you really misunderstood the concept of progress. when i started thinking about the theory of democracy, basically when i started building the movement, i heard very often that people don’t really care about the theory of democracy or voting. and i do think that’s absolutely wrong. i think people care very much if they exercise their freedom to move across borders and then are deprived of the democratic rights. i think people care a lot if they’re trying to vote or stand as a candidate and they can’t do that because the voting booth is not accessible. i think people care very much if their vote is unjustly stolen because of unjustified thresholds. i think they care very much if candidates don’t have the chances to present themselves. so, colleagues, democracy is fragile and i think we should really use every opportunity to create trust in democracy, to improve our democracies, and ensure that we strengthen it with all our power. and so i’m very happy that we take this step here now, also as a step towards better democracy, against autocracy and for our common european values.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear colleagues, what we are looking at at the moment, is a criminal network that misused the organisational shell of an ngo for its corruption activities. so let’s be very clear: this is a corruption scandal and it’s not an ngo scandal. so rather than attacking ngos, not just in this debate today, and some of these ngos are actually our biggest allies when it comes to fighting corruption, we should fix our own problems. as so often, if you point with one finger to the others, there are at least the pointing back to you. we need this ethics body that president von der leyen promised three years ago. we need a culture in which whistleblowers feel safe enough to finally speak up. we need more resources for olaf, and we need to apply the same rules for everybody, regardless of big names, regardless of good connection when it comes to access, for example, to this parliament and this parliament’s resources, because frankly said that was the biggest problem with fight impunity. the voters want us to clean up this corruption mess. they don’t want us to engage in cheap party politics nor in scapegoating, and this debate feels a bit like this.
i have to say, madam president, ngos are always portrayed positively in the media, but this has little to do with reality. the corruption scandal in this house was made possible by ngos which, by the way, were financially supported by the eu. this has allowed mafia structures to be established. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. the fact that ngos do not generally act in the service of society, but predominantly spread left-wing ideology and enrich themselves at taxpayer expense is evidenced by numerous examples: in the mediterranean, ngos act as criminal smugglers to enforce their ideology of open borders. the commission is even supporting and courting them for this, even though surveys clearly show that the population is opposed to uncontrolled illegal mass immigration. the so-called climate stickers are terrorizing the working population in germany, blocking emergency services. penalties cannot impress them because they receive generous support from the heirs of american oil billionaires. even the german government supports climate extremists, even though the majority of the population opposes this. and the eu commission is no better; this is not only shown by the current corruption case. the eu's migration pact explicitly highlighted the influence of asylum-friendly ngos. at the same time, thousands of critical comments from european citizens were not taken into account. how is it that unelected ngos have more influence than the population, even though the majority of citizens reject the ideology of ngos? what does that have to do with democracy? the state-funded support of ngos should be generally abolished, because left-wing governments in particular tend to support only ngos that are in their favour. so the left-wing green ngos get the subsidies that the conservative and right-wing ngos are denied. and foreign funding must also be banned to protect citizens from the ideology of ngos, which they are mostly opposed to.
i have to say, madam president, thank you for allowing us to have this debate today. i think that first of all we can thank the ngos. we have already had a discussion today about the terrible situation in northern syria, in turkey. yes, where would we be if we were just deciding on the money here and there were no people doing this hard work, who are also so flexible, who go in part with a lot of volunteer work into these cruel situations and try to save as many people as possible? on the one hand, i think we have to be grateful and say, if we decided on money alone, how weak would we be? we need people to do this on the ground, whether it's in ukraine, whether it's in northern syria, whether it's in other areas of the world where without ngos we couldn't do the work that's so important at all. on the other hand, it is also true that transparency in eu funding is very, very important. and i would like us to talk about the commission's funding in general, not just about the ngos. i think we need to look at how we can use this debate in such a way that we have as much transparency as possible on the one hand, but on the other hand we also keep questioning the bureaucratic obstacles. we have a situation right now where, for example, some ngos in northern syria are not able to do well because there are obstacles, where you have to ask yourself again: so more transparency, more demands are not always perfect. but i think we also have to say on the other side, it's nice that we're all on the transparency front. we can agree on that, and we want to know: where do ngos want to influence? who pays the money for the ngos? what's the money being spent on? but i would also like to see that if these questions are considered so important in the context of eu funding, that it is also considered important when, for example, members of parliament, who are also funded by ngo money, say: what is the money actually spent on in the ngo, who actually pays the incomes, exactly how many, and where are ngos trying to gain influence over members of parliament? it would be important for me to be consistent.
in writing. – in 2018, the european court of auditors (eca) released a report about the lack of financial transparency of ngos. in this report, the eca remarks that the eu delegates 1.7% of its budget to ngos, including 6.8% of the european development fund. that is a total amount of 11.3 billion euros over the 2014-17 budget that is attributed to ngos. according to the eca, the lack of a european legal framework for ngos hampers an effective oversight of the use of the funds. the report states that ‘the european commission does not have sufficiently detailed information on how the money is spent’, and asks for the establishment of an eu-wide definition of ngos to improve transparency and oversight. the ecj has consistently annulled any attempt by member states to improve transparency of ngos, as a violation of the free movement of capital guaranteed by article 63(1) tfeu. yet, increased transparency requirements for citizens and undertakings are systematically upheld. despite reports from fatf, europol, eurojust, moneyval, and various reports from national competent authorities, clearly showing that ngos are often used as fronts for terrorist financing, the eu won’t make a move on ngos. this appalling policy of ngocracy must end now.
madam president, it has been two months, two months since bags of cash were confiscated. since then, multiple of our colleagues, people who we work with, people who make laws or who have made laws for all europeans have been jailed. every household across the european union knows about this. but there is a second scandal. and the second scandal is that we haven't done anything since then. nothing has happened. what have we done? we have written resolutions. we have a new task forces. we have working groups for transparency, working groups for the rules of procedure. but we haven't tangibly changed a thing. this is, for me, a second scandal. we need to act now and we need to get back the trust now. we need to win back trust now by implementing the changes we all know. further protection for whistle-blowers. cooling-off periods for meps, stringent transparency on conflict of interests and financial declarations, biting sanctions. but also transparency on every meeting that every one of us has, no matter the capacity, with lobby groups and interest groups. this is simple. let's win back trust now, let's win back trust for the european parliament.
blue-card speech. – mr engerer, i very much agree with your idea of having transparency in all meetings that all meps have. i was wondering what you think about the transparency on staff meetings. so for assistants, but also for the administration.
i have to say, madam president, thank you for having the debate. i am very much in favour of looking at what rules are effective and then looking at how we can tighten those rules. but i also think we should realise that the constantly introducing new rules will not help us if we do not enforce them. i would add that we may have to look at some of the rules in more detail. we are not concerned with whether the colleague gave the other colleague a chocolate for christmas. at some point, you yourself lose sight of what is causing problems and what is not. we were just talking about ngo transparency. so when colleagues say that ngos must be included in the register of transparency, they are right. but when the same colleagues - i just looked at them again - have not recorded their meetings with lobbyists for a year, i wonder if that contributes to the integrity of this house. i also think we have to realize that there's not much you can do about really criminal energy, except equip law enforcement well. i also think that - as we are talking about the eu institutions in general - it is not helpful if, for example, the council simply does not publish which member state is voting and how. as a citizen, i want to know how my government votes. and i think we also need to look beyond that and see how all the eu institutions can help us to build trust in the eu and then, as the european parliament, to win back trust.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, iris will give europe a seat at the table on the new space age. we saw this constellation as an opportunity to prepare the european space industry for its new challenges. and iris will not only provide a secure internet connection, but will also establish a competitive space industry, ensuring europe’s independent access to space. the significance of this can be seen every day in ukraine. the space sector requires investment just as much as it requires a change of policy that we are about to make. we want to see creative minds competing to create the smartest services, superb satellites and the most revolutionary rockets the world has ever seen. the space-based internet provided by iris will eliminate any coverage gaps and bring internet access even to rural and the remotest areas all over europe. this will drive the european economy. but this internet must also be affordable to all citizens. so, colleagues, why did you not support the green amendment that would have ensured that this internet connection would have cost not more than 10 euros per month? however, my colleagues, i must also praise you very much because not only have you adopted, but even embraced my proposals for sustainability criteria, which shows that you truly have a revolution in space in mind. these sustainability criteria are not only essential to continue engaging in space, but they are the first step for an international and for european space law and even lead towards a revision of international space legislation as a whole. in this sense, iris2 truly is revolutionary.
i have to say, madam president, i have read the draft legislative report. and sometimes you lose sight of the big picture when you look at the articles and the details - and i think it's great that the negotiations have been so intense and that a large majority in the european parliament will be in favour of them - sometimes you lose sight of the big picture. and i think that in these space issues, space itself is quite big, it should not be lost, that we have always associated with it, for example, also with those who have explored space before us, also great political ideas. when john f. kennedy gave his speech in 1962 and said, "we choose to go to the moon", he didn't say, "we're going to try to go to the moon in the next decade, maybe". no, he said, "we've decided to go to the moon". and actually, i also think that the big idea that i've heard in the speeches that i've just heard is that we've decided that we're going to be involved in this political arena, that we're going to be involved in space, and that we're going to try to put our own accents on that as well. i just wanted to let you know.
madam president, colleagues, commissioner, i just wanted to also chime in here one second, because as a former negotiator of the european space programme, it obviously makes me happy to see that we are taking the successive steps to actually make this european moonshot a reality. we all know that we can try to save old industries, curb state aid and really try to preserve what’s already there, but i think what’s much more fascinating is to build on the innovative capacity of the european union. we have amazing start—ups in the space industry, and i’m very happy that you also mentioned the downstream commercialisation. if we make data available, if we make the internet available, what kind of opportunities, possibilities do we have for new bright minds across europe to actually make use of that and make us competitive by new ideas, by new frontiers, that we can obviously best see in space?
madam president, so i asked an artificial intelligence to tell me how to regulate artificial intelligence in shakespearean english and here is what it said, ‘good people all, lend me thine ears. a tale of import i bringeth here, of something great that cometh nigh, an age of ai that dost defy. it hath the power, and speed as well, but also doth bring a weighty tale to tell. we cannot stand idle and let it be, but must regulate it, lest it harm thee. regulation we need of this device, to guide its course and set the right prize. it must not bring bias to the fore, nor infringe upon our rights, that’s more. transparency must be its guiding light, and accountability with all its might. and not just some, but all shall gain. equality and fairness shall not be in vain. so let us act with heart so true and regulate ai as we ought to do. it is not a hindrance, but a path made clear, to make progress sustainable and bring good cheer.’ thank you very much. i think it’s very insightful into how ai works.
i have to say, madam president, a spectre is haunting europe, the spectre of political reason. 13 eu governments resist mass immigration and call for a fortified eu external border so far dismissed as a fixed idea by so-called right-wing extremists. 13 member states - that's half the eu now agreeing to a core demand of our id group. first, this means that the debate is not just about european citizens, but also about half of eu governments opposing disastrous immigration. secondly, every vote for parties like the afd, the rassemblement national, vlaams belang, fpö and lega counts, because we already influence politics inside and outside governments. it is high time that the council finally buried the leyland migration pact, protected our external borders and created a clear legal framework that encourages pushbacks and remigration.
on behalf of the id group. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. it's very simple: there is no such thing as zero-emission transportation, even the electric car propagandists among us know this. the emissions from electric cars are only being shifted, for example, to coal-fired power stations, which will increasingly have to be used in the future not only for wind and/or hail, or which will be released in the production of traction batteries. a single battery can move over 1 000 tonnes of waste and release up to 40 tonnes of co2 before the electric car has even driven a single kilometre, which is why the green socialist united front gentlemen here in the european parliament are well fed by the taxpayer telling citizens that walking and cycling are healthy. millions of jobs are also being moved to third countries. but the arguments have been exchanged. today, it's about voting color. and don't expect it to go unnoticed by the citizens and voters as it always does. in particular, dear german colleagues from the cdu, csu and fdp: you can vote with the green-painted wealth-destroyers and economic-destroyers again, as you so often do, or you can vote with us for openness to technology, for individual mobility, for the citizen and against the obvious green nonsense. we'll find out this afternoon.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank mr timmermans, the first vice-president of the commission, and all those who have made it possible for us to vote on this result today. we are finally deciding to end the climate-damaging combustion engine. it's good for the climate, and it's good for the economy. we 're trying to make it clear . no new fuel will be allowed from 2035, and the car industry and workers can and are already adjusting to this change. the world is on the brink of a climate-friendly e-mobility. let us finally enter this competition: let us build the longest-range batteries, the most advanced cars in europe and thus secure the jobs and the automobile location of europe for the future. in the transport sector, we have always failed to meet the climate targets. and this is also a result of the policies of the conservatives over the last 20 years. and they are trying again now to do nothing about climate change in the transport sector, and hopefully they will fail today. because 2035 is good for climate change, but it's actually way too late. and many car manufacturers are also getting out of the business much earlier. let me say something else about e-fuels. some who have spoken here, who wander around in the past. the adac, it's not really a green front organization, but it estimates that one wind turbine can power 160 electric cars, but only 52 electric fuel cars. e-fuels are inefficient. they'll always be more expensive than electric cars, and they have no future. and that's why we're very clear that this is excluded in this law, even though some others say otherwise. with the burner off, it's clear: the industry is moving towards e-mobility that's the guarantee that it will stay. the success story of european industry is not that we build combustion engines, but that everyone works every day to make products better. innovation, precision, reliability and engineering are what make us who we are, and with them we secure europe's automotive future. anything else would be deindustrialization policy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. today we celebrate one of the key successes of the european green deal: the momentum is coming. for years now, emissions from transport have been rising, and in some cases are falling. but with the combustion engine phase-out for cars in 2035, an important step has been taken and the transition to e-mobility is certain. and we finally dare to signal to the industry the clarity of technology. i am also negotiating at high speed with the council for a rapid expansion of e-charging stations throughout europe. yet trucks account for almost a third of all co2 emissions and still block our roads. it is therefore high time that the burning of fuel in freight transport was phased out and that the railways were introduced. we call for a combustion-off for all trucks by 2035, 2040 at the latest. otherwise - and we know this - we simply cannot achieve our climate targets. thank you so much for making this move today. let's have a party!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we all have the goal of reaching the paris climate targets. and of course, the transport sector has to contribute to this and decarbonize as well. i think that's where innovation and creativity come in. so we've always fought to be open to this transformation. the incinerator can also be driven with alternative fuels in a climate-neutral way. the burner is not per se climate damaging, but it is the question of how it is fuelled. and so we have asked the commission to come up with a new proposal on how the incinerator can be used in the future with only climate-neutral alternative fuels. but i'm afraid that proposal is going to have to wait. there is no rational reason to ban the incinerator per se. that is why i will not support this proposal, because those who want to ban it are afraid of only one thing: innovation and competition. and that's exactly what's going to take us forward on decarbonization.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are talking today about the eu's accession to the istanbul convention; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of women against violence. this is an important issue because it's getting worse and worse: violence, murder, rape, gang rape, genital mutilation -- it's getting worse and worse. and we're going to talk about it. we are right to talk about the victims. but we also need to talk about the perpetrators. who are the men doing this? and most of all, where do they come from? and now some countries don't want to join. and you wonder why? because everyone wants to protect women. poland, hungary, slovenia, bulgaria, lithuania and latvia do not want to participate because they believe, quite rightly, that it is not really about protecting women, but that it is again about gender ideologies. and this ideology is fundamentally to be rejected, because to define gender not biologically, but ideologically - how a person feels or what he likes to wish for himself - i don't think anything of it. early sexual development is also frowned upon in many countries, and i am not. and marriage for all - many countries do not hold that. it is also stated otherwise in the constitution, and in the german basic law, by the way, but nobody is interested in that. and the bible defines it very clearly, but nobody really cares about it here in europe anymore. so, if you want to protect women, you have to stop mass migration, and you have to deport criminals. and i don't hold with ideology, i hold with biology, and i stand by the bible.
mr president, commissioner dalli, ladies and gentlemen, today in the european union, one in three women is a victim of gender-based or sexual violence. so, ladies and gentlemen, what are we waiting for to ratify the istanbul convention? the ratification process has been stalled since 2017 as six member states have still not complied. however, the latest judgment of the court of justice of the european union confirms that a qualified majority of the member states is sufficient to proceed with the ratification of the convention. this could help to break the deadlock. with my group, renew europe, with ramona strugariu, who spoke earlier, and with sylvie brunet and samira rafaela, we want the european union to be a reference point at international level for respect for women's rights and protection against violence. as we all know, there is a need to act quickly in view of the increase in violence during covid-19, which has not stopped since. i therefore call on the council to ratify this istanbul convention as soon as possible. the citizens of europe and the women of the world are watching us. let's live up to their expectations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the istanbul convention is of immense importance because every single person - whether mostly women or in some cases men - who is abused by a partner in the home is one victim too many. and because every child who is a victim of this domestic violence or a witness to this abuse is one too many. unimaginable suffering, lifelong physical and emotional damage result from this domestic violence. with the convention, we are setting standards for the all-important prevention, protection of victims and prosecution of crimes. the eu signed the istanbul convention seven years ago. how is it that it has not yet been ratified by all the member states? the council has already taken a decision on the matter. because otherwise i would suggest that you look the next woman who is raped or beaten in her home in the eye and explain to her that she is not adequately protected as a victim and that she is not adequately helped because you have uncertainties in the council about the legal basis of ratification.
mr president, dear colleagues here in the room, i just checked the numbers. when it comes to women with disabilities and how they are affected by gender—based violence, we are talking about 26.1% of women with disabilities living in the european union. and the numbers are not really clear because we don’t have the numbers and that is a problem. when you listen to women with disabilities about their sexual lives, you have women, they tell you: ‘yeah, he in my institution or in my family, he came to me in my bed and we had something like sex together.’ and in the end it came out: ‘he raped me.’ they don’t have a name for it. they are not educated and they don’t know or they don’t have the info and the empowerment of ‘what happened to me, that was violence’. women and girls with disabilities are more affected than we know. here i would like to see that come to an end in our political fight for women’s rights and for girls’ rights.
mr president, madam commissioner, in these times of crisis, women and girls are particularly exposed to many dangers. they face vulnerable situations, sometimes even in their own homes. one in three women has been the victim of violence and abuse in an intimate relationship with a close partner. but the risk does not stop there. many women are victims of online harassment, hate messages and rape threats, especially if they belong to an ethnic or religious minority. most of them prefer to withdraw from the media space, the public space and all social networks. financial dependence is often a key element for women who experience violence. empowering women in technology could be one of the solutions to this problem. access to modern means of communication could influence the situation of women who flee, for example, their homes - in other words, a kind of digital literacy should be developed for women. we therefore need to ensure gender equality in science and, currently, especially digital education, which could benefit them. my question to the council is therefore: how can you ensure that the vulnerability of women fleeing their countries is taken into account as one of the eu's priorities, especially when it comes to women of african descent or living with a disability? what measures are being taken to bridge the digital divide and combat discrimination? is the cross-sectional perspective a priority of the european union with regard to gender equality?
mr president, it’s great to see that we women take the room, even if we are running out of time, because it’s so necessary and important, because ‘women who don’t ask for anything are taken at their word: they don’t get anything.’ who said it? you can write an email. it was an important woman. one of the priority themes of the un commission on the status of woman is gender equality in a digital age. but when we ask ourselves how to empower women in the digital world, we first need to make sure that the internet is a safe place and accessible for us. online harassment, hate speech, trolling, disinformation, image—based sexual abuse is a daily reality for women and girls, and it prevents them from fully participating in politics and civic action. a recent study showed how disinformation and online abuse hinder women of colour to run as political candidates. so searches for prominent women and politics on instagram and tiktok ahead of the 2020 mid—terms produced abusive hashtags. as european parliament, we need to be strong and act across national lines on this topic, also at a global level, because women who don’t ask for anything are taken at their word: they don’t get anything!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, you said earlier, in response to a question from a colleague, that bosnia and herzegovina needs europe, and i very much agree with you. bosnia and herzegovina also needs the eu commission as the guardian of the treaties, to support it along the way, but also to speak clearly when it goes off track. i would therefore like to ask you about the electoral reform of the high representative christian schmidt. the process of changing the rules of the game on the day of the elections has caused great concern in bosnian society and also a great loss of confidence in the international community, in particular in the institution of the high representative. and since the eu also finances the high representative by 54%, this raises the question of how we should behave. i would like to know from you: how do you assess the amendment to the electoral law, particularly in view of the need to eliminate discrimination against minorities in electoral law and to open the way for bosnia and herzegovina to join the eu?
something has been lost in translation, so i will try to do it in english now because there is the question i was asking about the reform proposed by the high representative christian schmidt on 2 october, which is a white flag, which is also now in front of the constitutional court. and i think it’s a pity and it’s a shame that the high representative is proposing an electoral reform that needs to be put in front of the court in the first place. so this is a problematic thing. and i was asking you how you react as the guardian of the treaties.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. it is good that this parliament has been pushing for an independent ethics authority since 2021 and that this is also supported by a large majority here in the house. i am glad that the signal is not going unheard any longer, but that we are actually getting signals now that a proposal is being put forward. why is this so necessary? if we look again at the current state of the rules, we can see that we as a parliament have our own transparency requirements, our own code of conduct and our own ethical rules. the commission has its own procedures and bodies for ethics rules, including for example for former commissioners, and other institutions - we have heard - have different rules. to put it very clearly again: these rules, which usually only work internally, where former colleagues are often involved in decision-making, cannot really do that. and if we look at what's happening in other countries, if we look at canada, for example, we have an independent conflict of interest and ethics commissioner with the appropriate staff. in the united states, we have had an independent ethics board since 2008. why would you do that? because there were cases of corruption. three congressmen went to jail at the time, and it was trump who actually tried to weaken the rules here before his term, but thank god he didn't succeed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and i would also remind you that it was not only parliament that was pushing this, but the european ombudsman and the european court of auditors. they pointed out that we - or the institutions - had failed to develop really effective strategies, especially to prevent conflicts of interest from ever occurring in the first place. and they also pointed out to us and criticized us that there is no common ethical framework for the eu institutions with very clear procedures. we also need to monitor and enforce ethical rules, because the best rules are useless if they are not enforced and sanctioned accordingly. so i'm very happy, as they say in football, after a little bit of a warm-up period, that it's coming to this. and i would like to check again, mrs jourová. i heard you say you were going to present something soon. that is what the commission president told us in december. i would like to know more specifically when exactly the commission will be presenting a proposal for an interinstitutional agreement. i think that would be the right signal to make sure.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. when this parliament rejected two commissioners in 2019 because of conflicts of interest, we proposed the creation of an independent ethics authority. four years later, they're still not there. when commissioners like günther oettinger took on dozens of lobbying jobs in the cooling-off period, we again called for the establishment of an ethics committee here in parliament, but it still does not exist. and now, as parliament is rocked by the biggest corruption scandal in its history, many here are asking: why is there still no independent ethics committee? i made a proposal to this parliament two years ago. we voted in favour of the report by a large majority here in the house a year and a half ago, and nothing has really happened since then. the violations continue. every unannounced gift, every unannounced luxury trip, further destroys citizens' confidence in european democracy. and it is a sad fact that the rules of conduct are not or not sufficiently enforced in the eu institutions. but when violations go unpunished, then impunity becomes a culture. so it is not surprising that many do not follow the rules. and what happens when there are violations of ursula von der leyen's rules? what happens if there are breaches of the rules by the president of the parliament? should they then sanction themselves, punish themselves for their own rule violations? this system of self-control can't work. and if eu politicians are monitoring themselves and each other, it is no wonder that in 25 of the violations we have had in this house over the last decade, not a single sanction has been imposed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. now, an independent ethics committee is of course no guarantee that no one will ever take suitcases full of money. but a proper application of the existing rules would have revealed much earlier that panzeris' organization "fight impunity" is funded by morocco and qatar. former commissioner avramopoulos should not have received €60,000 from fight impunity. fight impunity should never have testified in the european parliament's committee because they were not on the lobby register. in all of this, independent monitoring and enforcement of the rules would have revealed much earlier what networks there are here in the european parliament. that is why, mrs jourová, an independent ethics committee was the central promise of ursula von der leyen. you have it in your mission letter. the resolution has been in this house for 17 months. can you tell us today when exactly we will start negotiations? can you assure us that demanding that this be true of all institutions is not just an excuse for us to end up doing nothing? and can you guarantee that we will have this body fully operational before the european elections so that the next batch of commissioners and members of parliament can be properly controlled?
(verts/ale). – mr president, the current ethics framework, the code of conduct for members and its advisory committee were created in the aftermath of the cash—for— amendments scandal of 2011. now, these rules are being revised because of the biggest corruption scandal in the european parliament’s history. the eu needs an independent eu ethics body, but we should not just sit and wait for the commission’s proposal and its further destiny in the institutions. we can already start the work in the european parliament. the parliament needs to redefine conflict of interest beyond financial interests. it needs sanctions with teeth and it needs strong scrutiny. all this is now lacking. as a member of the advisory committee on the code of conduct, i believe that with new strengthened powers, the advisory committee can be the starting point for the future european parliament’s ethics body. what it needs is first, it should not anymore be dependent on the decisions by the president. transparency should apply both to internal reforms in progress as well as transparency to the future work of the advisory committee. second, the advisory committee should be given powers to monitor, investigate and ensure compliance with ethics rules, also on its own initiative. this is also recommended by ms emily o’reilly, the european ombudsman, who is constantly watching how this parliament manages its work and its ethics. so colleagues, we can start today. we don’t have to wait. we are, of course, eager for the promise that the commissioner, vice-president jourová, has now given to us. but let’s see if it really happens. we need to act now. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card speech)
blue-card speech. – daniel freund mentioned that we had within the last 10 years 25 cases and you mentioned in your speech that you are a member of this committee which is in charge. could you perhaps elaborate a little bit? what’s the reason that the enforcement mechanism is not functioning in the moment and why this committee did not or is not allowed to put sanctions on colleagues who infringed the internal rules?
blue-card speech. – i think you said something which is very right, and i absolutely agree. and that is why i’m wondering why we are talking about an ethics body. you said that we don’t want to moralise public life, but that is why i don’t understand. why are we talking about an ethics body which has to do with moral standards? i agree with most things which have been said, even if i think the scandal wouldn’t have been prevented with a body like that because they were intentionally breaking criminal law and they took the risk to go to jail. but why do we call it ethics body?
mr. president, corruption is killing people. and that's not a slogan, that's the reality. corruption costs us enormously: €1 trillion a year in the union, yes, €1 trillion, you heard right. corruption makes us weaker and more vulnerable to the attacks of our enemies. corruption leads to tragedy. what happened in turkey and syria is not just a natural disaster, but the result of corruption in construction, in administration, in politics. do you think we're guarded in the union? the eva kaili case is the latest evidence that it's not. the time for talk is long past. we need facts urgently. i've been asking for an integrity agency since december. i don't want another institution that looks like we're doing something. the integrity agency must be real and cooperate with the eppo. proven corrupt people must be excluded from any public office. he has to give back all the wealth he made from public office and he absolutely knows what will happen to everyone. they must not have the nerve to touch the money of the european union or our money, our countries.
mr president, i have already mentioned that we have one problem in this debate. we talk the whole debate about ‘ethics’. but this is not the case. this is not our problem. we have a problem with the rule of law and the enforcement of the rule of law. for that reason, we have to have a clear distinction between criminal actions, breaches of institutional rules. that is what we are talking about here: breaches of institutional rules and legal but unethical behaviour. the qatargate case was a case where four members were charged with committing criminal acts and, of course, an ethics body would not have prevented that because they intentionally violated criminal law. what we need to do first is our institutional rules need to be enforced. and we have to ask our colleagues in this committee, why don’t you enforce the rules we already have and why don’t you put sanctions on those members who infringe our own rules? this is at stake here, and this is important.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i am appalled at the weakness of the commission and council's presentation of the matter. i do not know who prepared your speaking points, ladies and gentlemen, but they do not reflect the reality of tunisia at the moment. in tunisia there is a president called saied, who has eroded democracy, abolished parliament, rescheduled elections, then later, in which not everyone was free to participate, in which most parties did not participate, with a voter turnout of 11.4%. and you are saying that we should move on to the agenda, that we should acknowledge this, ladies and gentlemen? you can't be serious, asking us to do this. we must do the opposite, ladies and gentlemen. because what is happening in tunisia right now is that next to the coup d'état of democratic institutions, the next thing to happen is the judiciary. and we have - as the honourable member has already said - 57 judges who have been removed from office, and now it is the turn of the press. it must be said very clearly, colleagues, at this moment: the european parliament stands by the tunisian people. we are fighting with you for democracy, we are fighting with you for the rule of law and we are fighting with you for freedom of the press. today, the director of a radio station, noureddine boutar, has been arrested. this arrest is unacceptable: a firm and strong reaction from the european union against this tunisian regime is needed.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already done so. are we witnessing the beginning of the end of green terror? the new eu rules on long-term investment funds could be interpreted in this way. the position of the european parliament was clear and was adopted by a large majority against the votes of my group, the id group. parliament wanted to channel long-term investment into the green economy as much as possible. this is laying the foundations for green asset bubbles and threatening the stability of financial markets in the eu. we have always rejected this and we continue to oppose the misallocation of resources to green fantasy projects which threaten our competitiveness in europe. although we were isolated by our position in the european parliament, the member states, including the french presidency of the council at the time, and the european commission, surprisingly, joined the position of the alternative for germany and the id group: long-term investment funds were not a suitable vehicle for financing leyens green deal covertly and to the detriment of investors. the political agreement now reached by the council and the commission has given the european parliament a green light. this is a small but hopefully a landmark victory for political reason and for all those political forces which reject green totalitarianism and do not want to condemn our citizens to a life in a kind of green gdr. the agreement is also a crushing defeat for the greens and their friends on the political left and in the heart of this parliament. it seems that the political balance is shifting. in times of record inflation, rampant public and rising private debt with zero growth, support for green adventures is waning. and adventure is what it is! what did the german green leader habeck say a year ago? he has no literally goat for a government that doesn't want to take big risks. and maybe it's going well. then we could all be a little proud of ourselves. this is the policy of the gatekeepers and 21 hysterical german greens in this parliament - unfortunately, there is none here. let's hope that the others - i said yes germans - let's hope that the others will soon wake up from this mass psychosis. then we will see more green defeats.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. repowereu is providing €20 billion of eu funds to help eu countries become more independent from russian energy imports. however, the european court of auditors criticises the misuse of funds to green the economy. the idea was to provide emergency aid for citizens and energy-intensive businesses. instead, countries with high fossil fuel consumption are favoured. the biggest victim of the divestment is germany, which is particularly dependent on russian gas. in addition, funds intended for german farmers, the east german economy or schools in north rhine-westphalia can now flow into the pockets of wind barons and solar giants. this is not a step towards energy self-sufficiency. we become more dependent on helios and aiolos, the sun and wind gods. that is not in the interests of the citizens. i therefore vote against this proposal.
madam president, hr / vp borrell, president of the commission, dear colleagues, a year ago, i stood here warning putin that the attack on ukraine would be the end of russia as we know it, that the imperial overstretch would doom russian hopes of regional domination. the war that putin aimed to last three days has been now waging for a year. a dying empire is desperately trying to destroy the ukrainian state and identity but all this is in vain because the brave people of ukraine are fighting not to conquer but to defend, not for domination but for survival. the unimaginable price ukrainians are paying for freedom keeps us all free, because ukraine is defending us and every democracy, because the freedom that some take for granted is never free, it is paid for by the sacrifice of brave men and women. we do not need to be convinced: ukraine is europe. and we will all continue supporting the bravery for as long as it takes and with all we have.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. for a year now, the war has been raging in ukraine, which means that for a year now, people in ukraine have been dying. a year of war is also a year of brutal power struggles between nato and russia on the backs of the people of ukraine and the people of the world. yesterday mr stoltenberg said that this war had been foreseeable since 2014. then you have to ask, why wasn't it prevented by all means? yes, russia launched the attack on ukraine and should be condemned. but what has nato been doing since then, except for upgrading its weapons in real and verbal terms? stop it, please! why did you remain silent when britain and the united states torpedoed the peace talks in turkey last year? solidarity with the people under attack has nothing to do with what you're doing. be truly in solidarity with the people of ukraine and stop putting your geopolitical interests above the lives of the people!
madam president, dear colleagues, the eu green deal is a success story, and so successful that other continents are following suit. finally, the global race for climate technology and net—zero industry is on. and one way to react to this race is to attempt to solve today’s problems with outdated solutions from the past, like some in this house who seriously want to pause the green deal and to massively deregulate. and this is like putting on the bedroom shoes of your grandfather and trying to do a 100—metre sprint. the contrary is true: we need to accelerate our green transition to be at the forefront of this race. the future of the eu industry in our internal market is powered by renewables. it’s emission—free, it’s energy efficient. clear rules for reducing, recycling and circular business models will not only protect our strategic autonomy, help mitigating the climate crisis, but also bring our companies to the forefront of this global competition. we must use subsidies strategically and focus on key green sectors like batteries, solar panels, wind turbines, heat pumps and electrolysers. to protect the internal market we also have to ensure european financing of net—zero industries with fresh money. and one of the biggest untapped instruments is public procurement: 14% of our gdp. if we allow procurement authorities to give preference to sustainable goods, we will create a huge market for our green industries. the source of our long—term competitiveness lies in our ability to transform: let us seize it.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the situation of the rule of law in greece has been deteriorating in recent times, and i found the report by the commissioner really alarming. i mean, her having to remind a government to secure physical safety of journalists. this should really silence any critics about the critics, you know. and the most obvious issue you see it is media freedom. in the 2022 world press freedom index by reporters without borders, greece marked the 108th country. and of course, the last country in europe. and the most disturbing event probably was the murder of the investigative journalist giorgos karaivaz in april 2021. in almost two years, that has been close to no progress in the investigations. and in the last months, it turned out that at least 13 greek journalists have been targeted by the spyware predator. one of them covered the introduction of laws by the mitsotakis government, impeding the prosecution of money laundering and other financial wrongdoing. now you have to know that predator and pegasus are not just spyware. it is as if someone had your mobile phone in their hands. they can manipulate everything you do on your phone. they can listen to everything you do. they can switch on the camera whenever they want to. this is a very serious breach of privacy rights. and within the pegasus inquiry committee, we were shocked to learn about the large scale of political use of this spyware in greece, besides the use against investigative journalists. also the opposition leader nikos androulakis, member of this parliament, and other politicians were spied upon. and all of this, the use of this wide-ranging spying software without ex ante judicial authorisation, ex post oversight and meaningful legal remedy is a clear breach of our union's fundamental rights. but it is not this alone. moreover, we discovered close ties between the government and the company intelexa that is selling this spy software predator. it is a script that could be written in any textbook on corruption. until last summer, the nephew of the prime minister, mitsotakis, was his secretary-general/head of cabinet in his office. he was responsible for government contacts with the national intelligence service. moreover, two friends of this nephew, bitzios and lavranos, happened to be key figures in the supply for communications surveillance material and both benefited from lucrative government contracts. the nephew had to resign, as well as the director of the intelligence service. now, elections have been called in greece. this makes it even more urgent to end the illegal spying on journalists, as well as on opposition politicians or politicians in general. greece is the birthplace of democracy. the current situation is a disgrace for this beautiful country. this mess needs to be cleaned up and it needs to be cleaned up now.
madam president, madam commissioner, the greek prime minister enacted a law which grants him direct supervision over the greek secret service, which has since spied on its own ministers, a former prime minister who is now an opposition leader, a member of the european parliament, journalists and the head of the greek military. the greek government refuses to give any reasons for the surveillance. under a new law, public officials will even be liable to criminal prosecution if they carry out audits about who’s under surveillance and why. greece’s watergate scandal makes a mockery of the rule of law. the european commission, however, is turning a blind eye. it prefers instead to bully eu-critical governments for practices allegedly politicising the judiciary but which in reality are commonplace in germany. the commission should open article 7 proceedings against greece, as a matter of urgency.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. of course, the events in greece are of concern, the spying on the press and journalists. but let's look at the bigger picture. today, international media outlets are reporting under the title story killers that a secret company is rigging elections in various countries, that it is openly suggesting that it is using spy software to manipulate elections. this is the picture we have internationally. we've been working very hard on the pegasus committee on spy software that can not only spy on our smartphones, but can also use the cameras, listen and much more, even sending your own messages seems to be possible in some cases. and then we see that this is apparently being used in europe and also worldwide to attack elections. so it's not just about our privacy -- that would be worth protecting -- but it's also about our democracy at its core. and then i hear this debate, and i really have to ask, ladies and gentlemen: are you not a little ashamed of this debate, how purely party politics is being done here again? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. how many more elections do we have to rig? how many situations must there be before we realise that this is not about party politics, but about our european democracy? i wonder about that, and that should have been the debate in this house today.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. our responsibility in this house is not to be populist, but the challenge now is to agree on a balanced migration package, in line with the roadmap. the eu has been incapable of acting on this for years, partly because the council has been blocked and blocked. but the recent debates in the council also raise doubts as to whether the council understands that only a balanced package can win a majority in this house. i am not surprised that the id group or the ecr group are starting to make a fuss here and are taking trump as an example; he is raving that he will build the best wall, the biggest, the strongest, the most insurmountable. but the fact that the epp is increasingly cozying up to the right and post-fascists and adopting this trump rhetoric is negligent. because to stir up fears about migration and try to make political capital out of it is not civic, it is simply repulsive. and i see that the id has already offered mr. weber membership. why are we against walls as s&d? because walls and fences don't help. and also the history of the united states, and if you look at the walls of the united states, walls don't stop refugees, they just increase the number of deaths. so, to spend eu money that could be spent elsewhere on this is populist, and above all, it doesn't solve the challenges we have with migration. the only way to solve them is to have a balanced package.
i have to say, madam president, i read the council document and it immediately occurred to me that deterrence and isolation have been creating the chaos they claim to be fighting for years. i think we should just stop - and i noticed this in the document - hiding behind walls the responsibility for the future of our asylum system. you won't be able to deport all the people in the end. eight out of ten refugees who have arrived just in the last year are from ukraine. why are we only talking about closure, not how we can make them part of society faster? but i also believe that we have to be careful that we don't hide the responsibility for the current situation we have behind a wall of lies. it is always said that we have open borders. we do not have open borders. on the contrary, we have thousands of dead at the borders every year and tens of thousands more being smuggled illegally. we pretend that we cannot register and monitor people at the external borders. but the opposite is true. we are even sending frontex away, for example to greece, because they have observed too many human rights violations. i think if we don't start respecting our own laws, we don't have to discuss new ones. i think that we should be careful, above all, in all the details, that we do not leave the europe that we see in asylum policy to the next generation in such a way that we have to be ashamed of our policies in our descendants.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. why are we not moving forward, citizens ask themselves in migration policy. and you're right to ask yourself that question. since 2015/16, since the great migration crisis, member states have blocked any legislative progress on this issue. and now the pressure is particularly high because of a large number of additional refugees from ukraine; we feel it at the municipal level. and we need answers, and the public expects answers. and the council is working now, addressing these topical issues. but i think sometimes we forget the long-term goal. of course, we have to address short-term problems. of course we also need to improve deportation and for that we need agreements with third countries. but what we really need is finally a common european asylum system. what we finally need is an answer to the question of how solidarity between the member states can be organised in europe. what we finally need are faster asylum procedures, and what we finally need is easier and better access to the european labour market so that people do not end up in the asylum system in the first place. that is what we need and i expect the council to finally move forward.
we now come to the spontaneous verbal communications. i have five applications, but two of them have already been discussed in the debate. so i'm going to consider three. spontaneous speech
madam president, migration is a fact. it is not a threat to our security or our identity, and certainly walls are not the answer. the response must be european in its scope, in its values, but also in its legislative law, in accordance with the principles of binding solidarity and shared responsibility. this parliament has put into effect this legislative right on migration and asylum. if we are negotiating a new pact, it is because there have been breaches by the laws of the member states, by the governments of the member states, and a lack of solidarity and shared responsibility. but we still have a chance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament will do its job. that is why we have taken on board the road map, the timetable before the end of this mandate for these five regulations to be adopted. it is simply essential that the council does its part. when there's a will, there must be a way.
madam president, i am a member of the development committee here in the european parliament, and i want to recall article 208 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which states that the primary objective of our development cooperation policy is the eradication of poverty. the council conclusions make reference to the use of ndici—global europe funding for migration purposes. it is possible that it is a secondary objective of development cooperation. it is possible. but what was astonishing about these council conclusions is that it doesn’t make that other argument. it’s fine to talk about returns, it’s fine to talk about safe countries of origin, but there’s nothing about illegal pushbacks, there’s nothing about the horrible conditions in libyan detention centres, there’s nothing about restoring search and rescue, and there’s nothing about condemning fortress europe and the building of walls. it’s fine to have these points that vindicate the far right, but you also have to have the other narrative, which is about a humanitarian european migration policy.
member of the commission. – madam president, colleagues, thank you for this debate. i really appreciate the sense of urgency in the house and the approach of members from whatever side that we need a common pact on migration and asylum. perhaps the last speaker in catch-the-eye stole a line of mine, but i do think we need to realise that we’re talking about human beings. they could be people like you and i, and i think that is important for us to say in this debate. but we are letting down human beings who need protection; people who come here and who should have their status recognised quickly. this is not happening and that has to be addressed. human trafficking must be tackled. reducing irregular arrivals and increasing returns where that is appropriate is also important. the european council has agreed a two-track approach. so, the operational measures that i have mentioned, but more importantly the legislative action to underpin a european common approach to asylum and migration. this is the only sustainable solution, and i know there is a commitment to reach agreement by the end of this term, but i really would wish for speed in that work. we are ready to assist the co-legislators. we need to agree on a sustainable, efficient and humane common migration and asylum policy. therefore, this debate, with the many different views, should focus all of our attention on doing what we can to reach agreement so that we once and for all have a common approach on european migration and asylum.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i say to the commissioner, thank you for your remarks and comments and for the continuous debate on such an important matter and, as i hear, the need for a common european response. as i stated in my opening speech, the council has made concrete progress in the past months. we remain committed to our common goal of reaching an agreement on all legislative files in the migration pact before the end of this term, and we trust that the european parliament will do the same. let me also say that the issue of protecting the eu’s external border is not new; in fact, it has featured in council conclusions for several years. but in order to reach a sustainable compromise on migration policy, we need to balance both elements: strong protection of our external borders and common rules for migration and asylum. during the european council meeting last week, the leaders stressed that the commission should continue to fund measures to contribute to the control of the eu external borders, for example, border management, pilot projects, reinforcement of border protection capabilities and infrastructure. the commission will take forward the operational action as agreed, including work with relevant member states and agencies to identify pilot projects. finally, we are all aware of the negotiations on the pact will be extremely difficult and sensitive and that this will require time. but the joint roadmap agreed between the rotating presidency of the council and the european parliament sets out a clear goal: an agreement on all legislative proposals by the end of this legislative term. this requires joint efforts. we will do our best to make this happen. however, the european parliament must also do its part and adopt its negotiating mandates on all legislative files contained in the pact. but i am looking forward to the negotiation to do this together with you. thank you again for the debate and for your attention.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr rasmus andresen, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the european central bank annual report 2022 (2022/2037 (ini)) (a9-0022/2023).
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, president lagarde, it is good to see you here in the european parliament. the russian aggression against ukraine, disrupted supply chains and the ongoing climate crisis are threats to our economy and to price stability. with an unstable economic outlook, we cannot be sure that price stability and an economically stable environment for all citizens will be reached. energy and food prices are still far too high, and our dependence on fossil fuels remains far too strong. while profits of the biggest corporations are skyrocketing, a majority of citizens are suffering from real wage losses. the real wage growth declined in the first half of 2022 to —2.3%. in germany, my country, the wage loss went to —3.9%. at the same time, we could observe a higher contribution of profits to inflation, for example, from energy companies like exxonmobil, shell and others. we need to have a science—based analysis. we therefore call on the ecb in the report to begin to report also on profits contribution to inflation, the same as you are already doing with wages. we are calling on the ecb to take a step—by—step approach. the high inflation is a big concern for the european parliament and we agree on that the ecb has the tools to bring demand driven inflation down. by accepting the primary mandate, we also need to be very clear: this current price explosion is different. the ecb has limited tools to address it. we are facing exceptional supply shocks in the energy markets. the ecb cannot bring this inflation down at short—term level, but also needs to focus on the medium—term perspective. our high levels of dependence on russian imports and skyrocketing prices for fossil fuels are an important reminder how a climate-harming policy is also directly affecting price stability. green monetary policy is not a nice—to—have but necessary to secure price stability and a prosperous economic outlook. this is why we dedicated an entire section in the report to the ecb’s policies to actions against climate change. we are welcoming the ecb climate roadmap and stress test you put forward last year. we discussed it in the committee more than once, but we also think that we need to do more and we need to include climate— and environment—related risks through climate stress tests and also other tools. we are inviting you, president, also in the next months to discuss this further with the european parliament. climate change is affecting price stability, and ignoring this fact will lead to big problems in the future. from a green perspective, important steps, first steps have been taken also in the report we could agree on in the committee, but we still need to develop tools so that needed green investments will not be harmed by a tightening of monetary policy. i guess this will also be one of our major priorities for the next debates in our committee when it comes to central banking and to monetary policy. for the first time, the report also includes a chapter with recommendation for secondary objectives. for too long a time, the secondary objectives have been politically ignored, and let me state this in no uncertain terms: the ecb secondary mandate is legally binding and laid down in the treaties. so we are calling the ecb to explain in a designated chapter of its report how its monetary policy is affecting the general economic policies of the union, including impacts on sustainable growth and employment or inequality. dear colleagues, the ecb is accountable to the european parliament, and i really think we have a strong mandate and important work by calling the ecb to be more transparent and to explain much more on the monetary decision-making. so this report is a chance to go in the next steps in the dialogue together with president lagarde and the ecb. i’m really looking forward to do this after hopefully a strong vote tomorrow and the debate here tonight. so once again, thanks for the president for attending the meeting, and i’m really looking forward to all of your contributions.
president of the european central bank. – madam president, commissioner mcguinness, honourable members of the european parliament, i’m very pleased at this point in time during the day to be in front of you and to share this moment and to participate in today’s important debate, as has just been indicated by the rapporteur. the ecb was granted a democratic mandate to ensure price stability in the euro area. in other words, we safeguard one of the fundamental conditions for stable economic growth. to achieve this mandate, the ecb was also granted a high level of independence, and as you acknowledge in the draft resolution we are discussing today, the ecb’s ability to take all necessary measures free from any political interference is essential to deliver on its mandate. this is particularly the case at the moment, given the present circumstances. high inflation continues to have a large impact on all areas of our economy and on people’s everyday lives, especially low—income households, as you also noted. this is why the governing council started normalisation of its monetary policy back in december 2021 and has raised ecb interest rates by 300 basis points since july 2022. it has recently – at its february meeting a few days ago – emphasised its determination to stay the course in raising interest rates significantly at a steady pace and in keeping them at levels that are sufficiently restrictive to ensure a timely return of inflation to our 2% medium—term target. but independence comes also with a great deal of responsibility. the choices that we make as central bankers have a significant influence on society. so being accountable for our decisions is the necessary counterweight to our independence. this means that we need to explain our policies and the analysis that underpins them to ensure that people understand how and why our decisions are taken. but it also means that we must be attentive to the concerns of the public and carefully evaluate whether and how we can respond to these concerns within our mandate. after all, reinforcing trust in our institution also supports our monetary policy – for example by anchoring inflation expectations. today’s debate on your draft resolution is crucial in both these aspects. so i’m here today to explain our policy, but also to listen to your views as elected representatives of the european citizens and to further reflect on how the ecb can act for the benefit of all europeans within its mandate. let me start by briefly outlining our assessment of the euro area economy as was discussed by the governing council earlier this month. euro area growth slowed, but didn’t stall, in the fourth quarter of 2020. the outcome was better than was initially expected as the adverse economic effects from russia’s unjustified war were partly buffered by improving supply conditions and fiscal support related to the energy crisis. while confidence is rising and energy prices have fallen, we expect activity to remain weak in the near term. according to eurostat’s flash estimate – and this number, by the way, is calculated using an estimate for german inflation at this point in time – inflation was 8.5% in january. it is likely to be revised slightly upwards when taking into account the german inflation numbers, which have now been published. the decrease compared with december was mainly due to a sharp drop in energy prices. at the same time, the prior surge of energy prices and other input costs is still feeding through to consumer prices. overall, price pressures remain strong and underlying inflation is still high. if, for instance, you exclude energy and food, inflation remains at 5.2% in january, the same as in december. looking at the labour market, wages are growing faster, supported by robust employment dynamics, with the main theme in wage negotiations becoming how wages can to some extent catch up with high inflation. even though most measures of longer—term inflation expectations currently stand at around 2%, these measures warrant constant and continued monitoring. the risks to the growth outlook are now balanced or, rather, more balanced than they were in december. russia’s war against ukraine and its people continues to be a significant downside risk. but a faster resolution of the energy shock would support growth. the risks to the inflation outlook have also become more balanced, especially in the near term. so against this economic backdrop that i have summarised very briefly for you, what is our monetary policy? well, at our latest meeting on 2 february, a few days ago, we decided to raise the key ecb interest rates by 50 basis points, and we expect to raise them further. so in view of the underlying inflation pressures, we intend to raise interest rates by another 50 basis points at our next meeting, in march. we will then evaluate the subsequent path of our monetary policy. keeping interest rates at restrictive levels will, over time, reduce inflation by dampening demand and will also guard against the risk of a persistent upward shift in inflation expectations. our future policy rate decisions will continue to be data dependent and will follow a meeting by meeting approach. at our february meeting, we also decided on the modalities for reducing the size of the eurosystem balance sheet and the asset purchase program that i will call the app for simplification purposes. as we communicated in december, the app portfolio will decline at a measured and predictable pace, with the decline amounting to eur 15 billion per month on average from the beginning of march 2023 until the end of june 2023. it will then subsequently be determined over time. in the interest of simplicity and neutrality, the parameters for reducing the app portfolio will be closely in line with what we have done previously. this will preserve consistency with our monetary policy stance, which is being set primarily by our interest rates. for the eurosystem’s corporate bond purchases, reinvestments will be tilted more strongly towards issues with a better climate performance, supporting the gradual decarbonisation of our corporate bond holdings, in line with the goals of the paris agreement, without prejudice to our price stability objective. let me now turn to other important matters you have raised in your draft resolution – namely the expansion of the euro area and the work we must do to complete our economic and monetary union. on 1 january, we welcomed croatia to the euro area, expanding our club from 19 to 20 countries. croatia’s accession is an impressive achievement not only for croatia itself, but also for the euro. it shows that the euro is an attractive currency and once again reminds us that in europe we are just stronger together. adopting the euro will bring tangible benefits to croatia’s 4 million citizens, building on the broader positive impact the euro has had over the last two decades. as an anchor of stability, the euro has advanced european integration and strengthened the single market’s role in driving growth. this in turn has elevated the eu’s standing as the world’s largest trading bloc and enhanced our autonomy on the global stage. the euro has also become a symbol, and a binding symbol, and an integral part of our shared european identity, as its popularity shows. support for the euro and for economic and monetary union has now reached an all time high at 80%. but with rising geopolitical tensions in the global economy, a stable euro will become even more important in ensuring that europe continues to thrive. for that to happen, we need to collectively double down on the work that remains to complete our economic and monetary union. on that, each and every european policymaker needs to contribute. let me mention briefly, by way of conclusion, the three areas where progress can be made in the next 12 months before the eu elections in 2024 – which i know is already keeping many of you busy, but there is work to be done before that. let me mention those three areas. number one, euro area financial integration. number two, eu economic governance. number three, the digital euro. big projects. if we look first at strengthening the euro area financial integration, the ecb is playing its part, notably by ensuring european banking supervision that is effective and consistent. we promote financial integration through our central bank services, for example by supporting eu debt securities to fund the nextgenerationeu programme. but the future of eu capital markets hinges on the broader regulatory environment, which is in your hands. deeper, more integrated eu capital markets are essential for enhancing risk sharing and mobilising the private financing needed, especially for the green and digital transition. i know that work is underway, that the commission is playing its part and the econ committee is also active in that respect. but more needs to be done. it is critically important if we want capital to flow and to feed the ambitions that you have and that we legitimately have in relation to our green transition and digital mutation. now, by the same token, we must not overlook the crucial work remaining for the completion of the banking union – an issue highlighted in your draft resolution and on which this parliament has been vocal in pushing for progress. second, the reform of the eu economic governance framework. the ecb has highlighted – and has gone public in that respect – the importance of a simpler and more predictable framework, stronger national ownership and sustained implementation. i really encourage policymakers, including this parliament in particular, to rapidly reach a viable and broadly—shared agreement that strengthens the foundations of our economic and monetary union. third, the digital euro. an appropriate regulatory framework needs to be laid down. the digital euro project is a truly european initiative which is moving ahead at a steady pace. in the autumn, the ecb’s investigation phase will come to an end and the governing council may well decide on the next steps. but let me be clear, that does not mean that we will then issue the digital euro. that would only happen at a later stage, based on a dedicated decision, and only after parliament and the council of the eu have adopted the legislative act. as eu policymakers, all the eu policymakers should continue playing their part, and i’m really counting on you, as the european parliament, to swiftly start working on the legislative proposal, which the european commission has been working hard on and intends to present in a few months. so let me conclude at this point. we are committed to bringing inflation back to our 2% medium—term target in line with our mandate, and we will take the necessary measures to do so. as thomas jefferson once wrote: ‘the price of freedom is eternal vigilance’. in a democratic society, central bank independence can only be legitimate if it is founded on a clear mandate and balanced with accountability, to ensure that the central bank follows and respects its mandate. this also means that forceful efforts to ensure price stability need to be accompanied by equally forceful democratic scrutiny. in this spirit, we will continue our ongoing dialogue with you as the representatives of the eu citizens, as also advocated in your draft resolution. the ecb stands ready to agree on a formalisation in writing of the accountability practices between the ecb and the european parliament. the ecb has made a proposal to the european parliament and looks forward to finalising an agreement between our two institutions. at this point of my conclusion, i would like to recognise the president of the econ committee. ms irene tinagli, without whom progress would not have taken place. the entire econ committee has been a great partner in the work that we do together, but without her it wouldn’t have moved. so thank you, and thank you to you all for your attention. i’m now looking forward to listening and, if more explanation is needed, of course i’ll come back at the end of this debate.
thank you very much, madam president, also for your patience to wait for several hours on this exceptional day – six hours. thank you very much also to commissioner mcguinness, who has the floor now.
member of the commission. – madam president, as they say, ‘what doesn’t kill you makes you stronger’. i have to say, it’s my unexpected pleasure to be taking part in this debate and to recognise madam presidents around me. this is an important debate because we do recognise the independence of the ecb, but there is also a democratic accountability piece, and i think you outlined that very well in your contribution. my thanks to the rapporteur, mr andreson, for your work and indeed your colleagues on the committee. and i think it’s also fair to say thank you to the chair of the econ committee, irene tinagli, who is a very good collaborator. my appreciation to all your colleagues. croatia joining the euro, the 20th member. a huge achievement for croatia, but a european milestone also. the commission shares the report’s deep concerns about russia’s invasion of ukraine and its consequences. the energy crisis led to a slowdown of economic activity, but our economies are proving to be a little bit more resilient than we might have expected. this is also evidenced by the recent commission forecasts. we, as a commission, respect the ecb’s independence in the conduct of monetary policy. we fully acknowledge that the ecb has taken decisive actions to tame inflationary pressures and ensure that inflation expectations remain well anchored, and the ecb’s decision to bring inflation down to close to the target of 2%, avoiding a wage price spiral. the draft report touches on the coordination of monetary, fiscal and structural policies, which is a topical issue. as monetary policy tightens, ensuring a consistent policy mix remains critical. expansive monetary and fiscal policies played a huge stabilisation role and reinforced each other during the economic downturn caused by the pandemic crisis. now that our economies are being challenged by strong and persistent inflationary pressures, fiscal policy should avoid fuelling inflationary pressures. a further expansionary stance is not warranted. as the ongoing tightening of monetary policy reduces the available fiscal space, we should have a prudent fiscal policy. and, therefore, the euro area member states should coordinate their fiscal policies to preserve debt sustainability and raise potential growth in a sustainable manner which would facilitate the task of monetary policy, bringing inflation back to 2%. the commission has strongly advocated a better targeting of the fiscal measures to cushion the impact of high energy prices on vulnerable households and companies. as energy prices have declined substantially, this becomes more relevant. with the general escape clause being deactivated as of next year, it will be important to make swift progress with the discussions on the possible revision of the eu fiscal framework. a credible framework will contribute to safeguarding fiscal sustainability and promoting sustainable growth through investment and reforms. the commission put forward orientations for a reform last year. we already had good discussions with the european parliament and are also discussing this with member states. on the basis of these discussions, the commission will consider tabling legislative proposals. your report stresses the importance of addressing climate change. we welcome the ecb’s efforts to incorporate climate change considerations in its monetary policy framework within its price stability mandate. this complements the actions taken by the commission and member states to address climate change and promote green investments, including, for instance, through the recovery and resilience facility. the implementation of the rrf and repowereu is all the more important with the new green industrial plan. policy objectives enshrined in the repowereu regulation explicitly include aims that are directly relevant to the industrial transition to climate neutrality, including industrial decarbonisation; the development of renewable and fossil-free hydrogen; green skills; and the support to develop value chains and technologies linked to the green transition. i have to say, president lagarde, i welcome very much your strong statement on capital markets union. we cannot say it frequently enough. we had an excellent debate here yesterday evening on eltif reforms, and there is a shared desire to move this project forward. so, we really need to keep up the pressure and indeed also on banking union. i look forward to the debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, colleagues, what can be better than spending six hours in this beautiful city of strasbourg? my colleague françois-xavier bellamy knows that i will fight to keep the seat of the parliament in strasbourg. i have two remarks on this report where i perhaps disagree: one on proportionality and the other on climate change. in paragraph 30, we stressed that where the ecb faces a choice between different sets of policies that are equally conducive to price stability, it will choose those that best support the general economic policies of the eu. no, it’s not about economic policies of the eu. when we talk about proportionality, it is not a question of whether the ecb acts proportionally in relation to the economic policies of the eu. however, it will exceed its mandate if the effects of its measures disproportionately affect the economic policies of the member states, because economic policies lie in the competence of the member states. we had this dispute involving the german constitutional court, and then it went up to the commission and back to the government. i would like to thank you for the cooperative and constructive engagement from the ecb in solving this problem. secondly, climate change: commissioner mcguinness mentioned that in paragraph 36 of the report, it notes that price stability and a stable macroeconomic environment are needed to encourage green investment and would help, among other things, to create the right conditions for the implementation of the paris agreement, and invites the ecb to assess to what extent climate change affects its ability to maintain price stability. the last sentence is right, but with the first i have problems. climate change will have implications for central bank balance sheets and policy objectives – that is true. when we say the ecb should help to create the right conditions for the implementation of the paris agreement, no, definitely not. impacts of climate change and policy transitions have consequences for the primary objective of price stability, but of course the ecb must not help to create the right conditions for the implementation of the paris agreement. it has to fulfil its task of price stability and thereby take into account climate change implications which might influence its policy objectives. that is something totally different, but obviously hard to understand.
i have to say, madam president, the european parliament has set out clear expectations in its 2022 annual report on the european central bank. we know that interest rate increases are an important instrument of monetary policy, but they cannot lower energy prices or have a decisive effect on inflation in the short term. and that is precisely why the ecb must in future put more emphasis on its secondary mandate, for a socially just and green european economic policy. it is irresponsible that the section of the ecb annual report 2022 on the ecb's climate policy has been watered down in this way by the epp group. and one wonders what problem the epp has with climate protection, especially in relation to the preservation of prosperity in general, and how it actually wants to justify this to the people and industry in europe. the ecb also knows that monetary stability and the fight against climate change go hand in hand, and that is why we need the introduction of differentiated interest rates for green investment by the ecb to drive the competitive transformation of the economy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the ecb blames the war in ukraine and global causes such as rising energy, fertiliser and transport costs for the record food price inflation. in 2022, food price inflation in the euro area was 15.5% and in germany even 19.2%. in comparison, in the usa it was 12.4%, in japan 6.4% and in switzerland and israel only 4% each. strangely, if higher energy, fertilizer and transportation costs are driving prices worldwide, why have food prices in the euro area risen almost four times as fast and in germany almost five times as fast as in the high-alpine country of switzerland, which has little agricultural land, or the semi-desert state of israel? so, there are fairy tales being told here, because the main reasons for the record inflation are the ecb monetary policy because those who increase the money supply by 70% within a few years cannot avoid inflation in the long run and secondly the useless eu climate policy useless because the eu's influence on the world climate is asymptotically zero with a share of not even 8 or 9% of global emissions and thirdly the russia sanctions, which harm us more than russia. year by year, the eurozone is falling economically behind the rest of the world and even the non-eurozone. and the eu itself is falling behind globally; we are becoming second class. and that is why we should invest our money in sectors of the future and not waste it on green fantasies.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, madam president, europe is facing a situation of great economic and financial uncertainty. the conflict in ukraine has led to a spike in energy and commodity prices. according to eurostat, euro area inflation rose by 9.2% year on year. after raising interest rates by 50 basis points in july last year, the ecb decided to continue with constant increases and quantitative easing. these measures will have a negative impact, by removing liquidity from financial markets and making corporate mortgage payments increasingly difficult to sustain, with a consequent decline in employment. the idea of keeping inflation at 2% at all costs is an arbitrary and not necessarily acceptable objective, the effects of which will be negative for the european economy and in particular for the most indebted states. most people will no longer have access to credit and businesses will no longer have incentives to invest. the ecb's measures to contain inflation are completely reckless and do not take account of the real causes that led to inflation. we don't need rate hikes and quantitative tightening. we need to relax relations with russia if we are to remedy the economic shock that has been created. unfortunately, we will only be able to evaluate the ecb's questionable actions in 2024, when the european economies will be in recession.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, president lagarde, as you say, confidence is a driving force in the economy, but the trend of rising interest rates is likely to disrupt confidence, which is the very engine of the economy. the increase in the ecb's interest rates in march and the one announced by the ecb for march are cause for concern. the slight economic recovery in europe, in the uncertain economic environment we are experiencing, is likely to be halted by the solutions that the ecb is implementing. so this road could slow down the economy and reduce liquidity in markets and investment for growth. data from the major reference associations show that interest rates on loans and mortgages have broken the 3% threshold. the socioeconomic context, already heavily stressed by war and high energy prices, must be considered in the light of the new interest rate hike which the ecb intends to implement for march. the ecb's strategy could therefore have a negative impact on the economic outlook for consumers, households and businesses in the coming months and could have a negative impact on the whole european economic system.
member of the commission. – madam president, colleagues, this has been a really important debate. i think sometimes there is the impression that financial matters, fiscal policy and monetary policy belong to experts. but everything that we do in this area impacts people, and i think the president of the ecb has already reflected that. i mean, many of you have expressed concerns about citizens, particularly vulnerable citizens, and that’s why the commission has said we need to target support to those most in need. indeed, the same goes for business as well: those that are vulnerable need support. in relation to the comments around greening of the financial system, more investments in climate, there are many different views in this house – that’s the beauty of it. but the truth is that climate change will impact asset values and therefore we do need to integrate this huge issue into our financial system. last point is in relation to the digital euro. i just want to inform the house here, as i have with the econ colleagues previously, that the commission is now preparing a regulation based on article 133 tfeu to establish the digital euro and regulate its main aspects, but of course leaving most of the technical design choices to the ecb. indeed the final decision will be taken by the ecb, and i think, president lagarde, you were very clear that this is an investigation that’s been carried out. one of the things that we will deal with in the regulation is an accompanying proposal on legal tender status of euro cash. one of the things i’m concerned about is that there is already a feeling that a digital euro will remove access to cash, and this is not what we have envisaged. there are concerns around privacy. so this is really an issue which this parliament will have to have a fundamental role in. i have to say that i had no questions addressed to me, which is a privilege and a joy, but i now yield the floor to the president of the ecb, who i think had a few questions.
president of the european central bank. – madam president, i wish to thank all the members of this parliament for addressing questions to me and for explaining their concerns, or the perspectives from which they are coming from. i would like on this occasion to thank mr andresen and his colleagues for the work that they’ve done and for the seriousness with which they did their work in coming to the ecb, visiting us and really going deeply into some of the issues that he has commented upon. what i would like to do is focus my response on three key points which have been debated by many of you – and i apologise to those who had specific questions, but i think in the time that is imparted to me, i think i will not do justice to their curiosity if i focus on the 20 different members who have asked questions. so let me address three particular points that i think are on the mind of many. one, let me just go back a little bit to inflation and what our mission is and what our mandate will deliver. let me then say a few things about climate change because clearly, as commissioner mcguinness has indicated, there are multiple views – it’s the beauty of this parliament – but i would like to address specifically what we are doing, which in no way undermines the focus, the concern that we have for our primary mandate, which is price stability. i’ll come back to the links between the two. then i would like to have the benefit of this wonderful tribune to be able to make a few comments on the relationship between fiscal policy and monetary policy and the impact that it can have on inflation and, as a result, the monetary policy decisions that we make. allow me to get back to numbers and not use either fantasy numbers or to borrow from outside europe, and the euro area in particular. our headline inflation, which includes all components including energy and food was, in january, 8.5% – likely to be revised a little bit upward, as i have indicated, once the german numbers are included by eurostat. that is way too high. there is no question about that. i think that, if anything, we all agree upon the fact that inflation is way too high, inflation is hurting and inflation is particularly hurting the most exposed, the most vulnerable and the most underprivileged. that is, i think, something that brings us together on this particular issue. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that inflation is not rising at the moment and, if anything, headline inflation is declining. it was at 10.1% in november, 9.2% in december, and it is now probably a little bit north of 8.5%. that is headline inflation. what is, on the other hand, not declining – because it is stable and has remained stable from december to january, having increased a little bit from november and december – is what we call core inflation, which is all components taken into account to measure the increase of prices, except energy and food. that level of inflation is currently 5.2%. i think it’s particularly notable that we have had an increase in what we call ‘non—energy industrial goods inflation’ – and that goes to the point made by some that inflation is currently essentially attributable to energy. it is not only attributable to energy. energy played a significant part, is continuing to play its part, and indirect energy costs are also fuelling what i have called the ‘non—energy industrial goods’, as it does with services, which have slightly begun to decline a little bit, moving from 4.4% to 4.2%. but it remains to be seen whether that is going to be continued. it’s pretty obvious that a further weakening of demand would also contribute to lower price pressures than currently anticipated, especially over the medium term. i know mr fernandez had some really interesting, important questions about the actual determination of ‘medium term’. i think that he would understand if i say that when inflation is particularly high and way too high, the medium term is probably a little bit closer than it would be if inflation was at a much more reasonable level. i think i’ll leave it there because the medium term is something that obviously is going to depend on the instrument as well as the distance from which we are to target. now what we are seeing in the economy is price pressures that remain strong. but what has changed since our previous monetary policy meeting and the review that we have taken most recently, in february, is that risks to the inflation outlook have become more balanced, especially in the near term. and there are multiple factors for that. it’s the decline of the high energy prices that continue to pass through to the rest of the economy – and we hope that this will move at as fast a path as it has passed through when energy prices were going up, but that remains to be seen. we have not really witnessed that yet. fiscal energy, compensatory measures, temporarily dampened inflation, but – and i’ll come to that in a second – could also temporarily upward the pressure in the medium term as those measures expire. i’ll come back to that. the risk of a stronger pass—through of high inflation to wages cannot be ruled out. at this point in time, we are not seeing any obvious sign of an emerging self-sustained wage price spiral but that could obviously happen and would come and fuel inflation. so we are monitoring very carefully these numbers. we are trying to be as detailed and sectorial as possible to really understand where this is heading, but it clearly could have an upward impact. as a result of that situation, as i have indicated, our monetary policy is determined to return inflation to 2% in the medium term, and we will do so and we will take the measures that are required in order to return inflation to 2%. this is the best service that we can provide to the economy so that economic actors understand what is the proposal in terms of prices, investors know under what terms they invest, borrowers know under what expected interest rates they borrow. this is actually the primary objective of the ecb, and we will deliver upon it. let me now say just a few words about another topic that has been on the mind of a few – and i will not touch on the special green rates, which is obviously an interesting topic, but not one that i can just address and resolve in this particular moment. what i would like to do is to clarify for you, particularly for those that are concerned about us not focusing our attention on price stability and the fight against inflation. this is our fight, this is our focus, and this is where we spend our energy but, as you know, within our mandate, we have also taken decisive steps to integrate climate change considerations into our monetary policy framework, financial stability monitoring and banking supervision. it is very clear to us that the ecb and any central bank is not in the driving seat for those measures. you are the drivers of this bus. executive authorities are the drivers of this bus, not the european central bank, not any central bank, but as part of our primary mandate, which is price stability, we have to take into account the risks posed by climate change, and under our secondary objectives – as long as it is without prejudice to the primary objective – we should certainly look into what can be achieved in order to respond to what you have determined as critically important economic policies going forward. it is specifically indicated in the treaty, as far as the secondary mandate of the ecb is concerned. so what have we done? we have adjusted our monetary policy corporate bond holdings, and since october 2022 we have started to tilt the reinvestment towards issuers with better climate performance. that has led us to a reduction in app reinvestment flows, and from march onwards the programme that we have to only partially reinvest is going to increase this tilting approach. by the end of 2024 we will limit the share of assets issued by non-financial companies with a high carbon footprint in the collateral pool that we have. by 2026, we will introduce climate—related disclosure requirements based on the csrd. that’s on the central banking side of the ecb. if you look at the supervision side of the ecb, we are working – and started the work back in 2020 with the banking sector to alert them to the process that was underway – on climate stress testing to assess the impact of climate risks on the eu economy, credit institutions and the european balance sheets. some of you have expressed a concern and would like to continue to be informed of the progress of our climate action plan. so i am committed to continue to inform the european parliament and the public about the progress that we make, within our mandate, based on the primary objective, based on the secondary objective, to the extent that it does not prejudice the first. we will continue doing that, i am pleased to report that thanks to the energy of all members at the ecb, we are on schedule under the action plan and we are delivering like – as some of you said – no other central bank is delivering at the moment. now a few final words on the good coordination between fiscal policy and monetary policy. this matters enormously, and as you know we have repeatedly asked that the fiscal measures that have been decided at the national level be targeted, temporary and tailored. you’ve heard those triple t’s ad nauseum. why is it? it’s because of the target of fiscal policy, which is precisely to address those that are most exposed, most vulnerable, and that take the hardest hit, particularly as a result of high energy prices. when we say that it should be temporary, it’s in order to align with the variation in the prices of energy. when we say that it should be targeted, it should be directed to those people most exposed. when we say that it should be tailored, it should be tailored in such a way that it actually continues to incentivise people to save energy. now, regrettably, of the many measures that have been taken – and this is a result of an exercise that we have conducted for the first time in the summer, but that we will deepen for our march monetary policy meeting – only a very small proportion of the measures that have been decided by fiscal authorities actually satisfy the triple t criteria. the bruegel institute has most recently also issued its assessment, and i think they assessed that only 25% of the measures are targeted, temporary and tailored. this is critically important, because while those measures at the moment are likely to dampen inflation without consideration, unfortunately, for many of them, for those who are most exposed, when they are withdrawn, when they are retired, then of course the retirement of those measures will actually have an inflationary impact on prices and that is likely to take place in 2024 and 2025, which is the medium term that we are concerned about when we determine if and when and how we going to reach target. so our exhortation to members of government, in the euro area in particular, is to really stick to the temporary, targeted and tailored principles in order to make sure that their policies do not counteract with our monetary policy and does not lead us to having to tighten even more in order to reduce inflation and reach our target. i thank you very much for your attention.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i think that the debate here today has given a very good insight into the controversy surrounding the discussions we had in the circle of the shadow rapporteurs on the wording of my report. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their commitment and for their willingness to compromise at the end, so that we can hopefully vote on this report tomorrow with a good and stable majority on all the controversial issues. i want to return to a debate in particular, because it seems to me to be almost more controversial than monetary policy and that is, in fact, the question: how do we really feel about climate change? and do we need a green monetary policy or do we not? i think we can all agree very quickly here in the house that we are concerned about inflation, about the price increases which have hit people on very low incomes very, very hard in all the member states in recent weeks. but in the analysis of what can be done about it, and what are also, in my view, obvious links with the field of energy prices, with the field of fossil dependence, which many of our member states still have on fossil energy, but in this case also on russian fossil energy, we seem to be somewhat different. and i am also very grateful to president lagarde for having made it clear on several occasions last year that there is a correlation and that price stability is no longer possible without a greener monetary policy. the fact that we are now seeing a price explosion for fossil fuels should make this obvious to everyone, but it seems to me that we will have to discuss this very intensely in parliament in the coming weeks and months. because there are - and i would also like to disagree with you, president lagarde - there are central banks that do more than the good things you have already started. the bank of japan is an example of a very specific approach to green differentiated interest rates. and i think we should go down that road and have a discussion about that in the next few weeks. i am looking forward to the vote tomorrow and would ask you all to vote in favour of the report at the end.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, the covid-19 pandemic, the russian invasion of ukraine and the energy crisis have shown how the eu is vulnerable to disorder and disruption to supply chains. among other things, these crises have made evident that the eu’s access to critical raw materials is highly relevant to functioning, sustainable and resilient supply chains. therefore, the council welcomes the commission’s announcement of a new regulatory initiative on critical raw materials. the eu needs to keep control of areas related to its essential needs, including the access to critical raw materials. for example, lithium and rare earth elements will soon be more important to our economy than oil and gas. the green and digital transformation of the eu’s economy and our transition toward carbon neutrality can only be achieved if we master net-zero technologies. we must be able to make these technologies available on the required scale. but developing and manufacturing green technologies requires sufficient access to relevant critical raw materials. it is therefore important that we take the foundation for our net-zero future more into our own hands and ensure the supply of our companies with the required critical raw materials. currently, the sources for many of these strategic raw materials lie outside our continent, with a high concentration of supplies in a limited number of third countries. for this reason, we need to develop more strategic partnership with third countries and avoid the risk of becoming too dependent on individual supply countries. we need to reinforce our international engagement and look very thoroughly into possibility for alliances with partners worldwide. to accomplish this, we have at our disposal a variety of elements to promote the eu’s position as a leader in net-zero technologies, such as our network for free trade agreements, sustainable investment facilitation agreements, or the green investment under the global gateway. as europeans, we should not only facilitate the extraction, processing and recycling in third countries, but at the same time we should ensure high social and environment standards. and we need to maintain a sustainable level playing field, both in europe and globally. but what is perhaps even more important, there is also an untapped potential here in europe to lower the eu’s dependence and to extract strategic, critical raw materials. the discovery of rare earth materials in kiruna, in sweden, that was announced during the college of commissioners recently, is the largest known deposit in europe and is one of the great examples of this. furthermore, circularity must be at the core of our own new strategy. this includes strengthening waste rules, increased materials efficiency and use of european sustainability and technical standards. all these measures will not only provide the eu economy with the required security of supply, but it will also boost new quality jobs and growth.
member of the commission. – madam president, colleagues, this is a debate about one of the most important and structural challenges that our industry faces. investing in refining, processing and recycling of raw materials here in europe, as well as working with our trade partners to build resilient supply chains, is one of the essential elements of what president von der leyen addressed as the greatest industrial transformation of our times. critical raw materials are of paramount importance for the deployment of the technologies that enable the green and digital transitions and strengthen our resilience. but it is true to say that the eu remains heavily dependent on concentrated supply sources from a few third countries. china provides over 90% of the eu’s magnesium supply and 98% of rare earth supply. turkey provides 98% of borate and south africa 71% of platinum group metals. we need, therefore, to combine an increase of domestic production where we can, including through recycling, with the diversification of sources of supply through reinforced international engagement, in full respect of highest environmental, social and governance standards. to meet these challenges, we’re preparing a european critical raw materials act, which will rest on four pillars. first, the act intends to define the critical raw materials that can be considered as particularly strategic to rally a collective effort and give a much-needed signal to private investors on priority needs. second, the act intends to strengthen the eu’s critical raw materials value chain, from mining to refining to processing, recycling and ensuring, as asked by this chamber, the high social and environmental standards. to this end, we intend to support the emergence of strategic projects which would contribute to increasing the eu’s capacity and would in turn benefit from more transparent approval procedures, streamline permitting, and better access to investment opportunities. we want to promote such strategic projects here in europe, but also in third countries to reinforce partnerships and collaborations. third, we intend to promote circularity in the critical raw material value chain, including by removing critical raw materials from extractive waste. this is really important for permanent magnets. and fourth, it’s essential to set up a governance system that facilitates collaboration among raw materials agencies and increase risk preparedness. such an ambitious plan requires ambitious resources. we need a massive, unprecedented investment push. besides the support of strategic projects, we’re working closely with the business sector through the european raw materials alliance to help project promoters get access to private finance. and we are advancing on state aid rules to help to accelerate the green and digital transitions, in particular when it comes to the temporary crisis and transition framework while maintaining a level playing field. but the european union cannot extract, process, recycle and refine all of the critical raw materials it needs. today and for the foreseeable future, we will continue to rely on imports, but we need to diversify our supply sources. we need to enhance our partnerships with third countries to secure and boost trade flows, using the eu’s vast framework of trade and investment agreements and extending our bilateral strategic partnerships, focusing on raw material value chains. in doing so, we need to help third countries to move up and develop local value chains in a sustainable way so as to ensure that partnerships become win-win and help to strengthen economic and political bonds. these challenges being global, we need a global response. as announced by president von der leyen, the eu will establish a critical raw materials club to work together with like-minded raw materials consumers and resource-rich countries, using the global gateway framework to its full effect. the eu needs to continue developing more strategic partnerships with reliable partners to diversify our supply sources, but also to consider how to make more sustainable and resilient our relationships with all our major trading partners in this sector. and, to this end, the act will be accompanied by a communication further detailing the eu integrated approach to ensure a secure and sustainable sourcing of critical raw materials with a specific focus on the external dimension. on sustainability in particular, we need to ensure that the sourcing and investment in critical raw materials promote labour rights and environmental protection. honourable members, when we talk about the green and digital transition, about technological sovereignty, we first need to talk about the supply of critical raw materials – its security, affordability and sustainability. and that’s why i believe that the upcoming package is of huge importance to the european union. i very much look forward to this debate and indeed there has been a link between all of the debates that i have participated in this evening, so it shows that things are circular and in the issue of critical raw materials, we are at a critical juncture.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. why do we need an eu raw materials law? can we not continue to rely on our companies to supply the raw materials or on our trade relations to provide a sufficient framework for this? why a new legal act at european level? because times have changed. first, our access to raw materials is no longer secure, and our deeply entrenched dependence on individual supplier countries and individual companies has become too risky. we see it for example in the fact that we had to exempt nickel and titanium from the russian sanctions, that ukraine is temporarily excluded as a strategic raw material partner, that export bans are imposed. but we see it most clearly in the fact that our biggest competitor china has already secured the entire value chain of critical raw materials, from mining to processing to use in products, through state-owned enterprises and dumping. secondly, we have set ambitious targets for the digital and renewable transformation of our economy, our industry, our mobility and our energy production. this is expected to lead to a sharp increase in demand for critical raw materials and already to production delays. therefore, better safeguarding our raw materials supply is fundamental to europe's competitiveness and technological leadership. we must act as a european union. two things are particularly important in the new european raw materials law: firstly, we must finally seriously exploit our own raw material potential. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and secondly, eu legislation must not contradict or overlap. this means, for example, that we must ensure that the collection, recycling and reuse of critical raw materials is enshrined in the relevant directives and regulations, and that new duties of care do not restrict our supply of raw materials. eu legislation must also follow priorities. and that priority is to put our european economy on a firm footing in terms of raw material supplies.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. raw materials are essential for the transition to a climate-neutral society. we need raw materials for the green transformation, for future technologies. and it is clear that we in europe must reduce our dependence on raw materials in general, and especially on china, for strategic autonomy. we know that commodity supply chains are fragile, and security of supply is important. and building up eu raw materials capacity is central to europe's competitive green industry. and yet it must be said clearly: there is a big question mark in classifying mining as sustainable per se, and we have to face that. mining in eu protected areas such as natura 2000 sites cannot be the right european solution. we need a green raw materials strategy with high environmental, social and human rights standards. raw materials partnerships such as the raw materials club can diversify procurement and work towards a global balance of legislation. and we need long-term solutions. we need to push recycling and recycling rates with a circular economy in focus. substitution and efficiency are important on this path. that is why we must rely on research and development for new european technologies. we now expect the eu's raw materials law to be an active european raw materials policy, which calls for a green european industrial policy that is competitive. let's move!
the commission has already done so. we have just heard from commissioner mcguinness that china supplies 98% of our rare earths, turkey 98% of our borate, south africa 71% of our platinum. these are 2020 figures, but we've known for a long time that we have a lot of dependencies on critical raw materials, a lot of dependencies on individual countries, and that these are often the countries that we are still in systemic competition with. but since that realization, too little action has taken place. we need more trade with more countries in the world so that we are not dependent on individual autocrats. the raw materials partnership with canada, for example, is a good start. i also see a lot of potential in the trade and technology council with india, and, minister roswall, i am very grateful that you have mentioned the rare earth discoveries in kiruna, because we also have to be willing to literally look at our own doorstep and use our own resources in the eu. because critical raw materials are critical because they're not easily replaceable, and they're so critical to modern technology. they are critical for a sustainable economy, for jobs and for prosperity in europe in the future. and they are therefore equally critical of the european union's independence from dictators and autocrats and therefore also critical of our european values.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation of human rights defenders in eswatini, in particular the murder of thulani maseko (2023/2551 ((rsp)).
madam president, eswatini is the last absolute monarchy in the world, with king mswati iii at its head. in january 2021, a protest movement emerged, calling for democratic reform. this demonstration was violently suppressed. dozens of people were killed. mswati iii had promised to start a national dialogue with the help of the southern african development community, but his promise has remained unfulfilled: repression continues and the situation is deteriorating. mswati iii is cynical in accusing pro-democracy activists of being "criminals" who dare to complain that civilians have been killed by mercenaries, when according to him, it is the civilians who are the basis of criminal actions, with their protests. on january 21st, three weeks ago, thulani maseko was murdered. he was shot in his home, in front of his wife and kids. he was eswatini's best known human rights lawyer. many pro-democracy activists were his clients. her killer is most likely a mercenary hired by the monarchy, and who worked for a private security company known for its apartheid crimes. this type of security company should have their license revoked. since the judicial system is not independent, we need an independent, impartial and effective investigation into the murder of the lawyer, whom we condemn. this inquiry should therefore be led by the african commission on human and peoples' rights and the united nations, in order to shed light on the attacks on pro-democracy activists. we demand the release of mthandeni dube, mduduzi bacede mabuza and all other political prisoners. we urge the authorities in eswatini to respect, promote and protect human rights.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 16 february 2023.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on violence against opposition activists in equatorial guinea, in particular the case of julio obama mefuman (2023/2552 ((rsp)).
madam president, julio obama mefuman died in prison in malabo, equatorial guinea, while serving a 60-year sentence. his only crime was being a member of the opposition. he was a european citizen: by virtue of his dual nationality, he was spanish. he was kidnapped, then thrown in prison and tortured. in his country, the government brutally represses civil society groups and censors journalists. the judiciary is under presidential control. the situation of the opposition is disastrous. amnesty international reports that security forces are practicing torture and other violence with impunity. the people of guinea deserve better than this. the average age of the population is 22. it is therefore a human capital that deserves a future worthy of its potential. along with julio obama, three opposition activists were also kidnapped, feliciano efa mangue, martín obiang ondo and bienvenido ndong ondo, who were also abducted in sudan and subjected to all kinds of torture. we call on the european union to sanction these arbitrary detentions.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 16 february 2023.
the next item is the debate on five motions for resolutions on the recent deterioration in the inhuman conditions of detention of alexei navalny and other political prisoners in russia (2023/2553 ((rsp)).
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. what else is there to say on this subject? the inhuman face of the putin system is reflected in the persecution of alexei navalny. i remember this man when he was still free. tall, always smiling, a passionate jogger who knew how to make jokes and charm people, even in the hospital room at the charité where i visited him after his coma. now i see the man on the screens of the russian judicial authorities: a thin man with eye rings and saggy cheeks, kept in a cage. and i say to myself, i recognize you again, alexei, because i recognize your spirit of life, your desire for freedom, your love for your wife and your family. and i recognize your devotion to your people, who have just been morally totally misled and violated, your belief that it's worth fighting for their freedom and their soul. this parliament, this continent, is thinking of you, alexei, as well as others: ilya yashin, vladimir kara-mursa, alexei gorinov. we're asking for the obvious: freedom, a doctor, family visits, talks with lawyers. we demand because we know that this dark time, this war of aggression against the proud people of ukraine will soon be over. what's the point? then, dear friends, in the russian camps, your hour will strike too - the hour of freedom, the hour of justice.
this lies in the eye of everybody, but at the end she tried to get back on track so i think we can be a little bit flexible. to judge, it’s about all who are listening; and to decide what she’s saying is upon her.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 16 february 2023.
the next item on the agenda is the explanations of vote.
this item is closed.
the next meeting will take place tomorrow, thursday, february 16, 2023. we start at 8:30, so not 9:00, but 8:30. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the minutes of this sitting will be submitted to parliament for approval tomorrow at the beginning of the afternoon session.
the sitting is closed. i wish you all a good night. (the sitting was closed at 10.53 p.m.)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the belarusian dictator lukashenko is as brutal as putin. both from yesterday, one with nuclear weapons and one without. no one is surprised that lukashenko is allowing russian troops to use belarus as a staging ground against ukraine. why should he have more mercy for ukraine than for his own people? he has been terrorizing and torturing his own civilian population in his own country for over 27 years. to secure his power and survival, lukashenko has already ceded everything to russia - the army, the economy and the country's independence. that's the price a dictator pays for keeping himself in power. but the people of belarus can hardly be more different than the representatives of the regime ales bjaljazki, andrzej poczobut, maryja kalesnikawa, svetlana alexijevich, raman bandarenka and many thousands of other freedom-loving belarusians faced the regime in peaceful street protests. they are the champions of another belarus, who have laid the foundations for a democratic re-start. every evil empire will eventually fall. every dictator reaps what he sows. lukashenko and putin are no exception. her own people will judge. belarus and ukraine share a dark history. for this reason, both seek a bright future free from tyranny and violence. shut up belarus! i'm going to the slav ukrajini.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. after all, it has obviously been understood that the availability of fertilisers is somehow linked to food security, which still does not stop the commission from continuing to say that agriculture is bad for the climate. farmers are not even allowed to use carbon sequestration as a new business model in a regulation instead of food production, for which they are then rewarded in a results-oriented way by voguing food companies and authorities. unfortunately, mr lins, much of this nonsense is also contained in the resolution we are voting on today. the debate is about the petty agricultural reserve of eur 450 million, while at the same time a generous eur 7.7 billion is being distributed to third countries - african, caribbean and pacific countries, among others - and talk of green energy for the fertiliser industry. what has not worked for the rest of the economy, we can try with the fertilizer manufacturers. and please, please, explain to me this sentence in your commission communication: fertilisers from russia can be imported into the eu. yeah, but not gas? i'm confused and just on the side: inflationary energy prices and thus fertilizer prices are simply the consequences of your blinded, ideologically dangerous climate policy. and you want to save the world?
the debate is closed. the debate was closed by a motion for a resolution. the vote will take place today, thursday, february 16, 2023. the meeting will be suspended for a few minutes. it will be resumed at 12 noon with the vote. (the sitting was suspended at 11.36 a.m.)
we're recording this. as far as i am aware, the conference of presidents has already dealt with this incident and will inform you of the further course of action.
the next item on the agenda is the vote.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate. (the sitting was suspended at 1.01 p.m.)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. thank you to everyone else who's here. i have two and a half minutes now, which is a rare amount of time. so when you're talking here on a thursday afternoon, you can talk for a really long time, and you can almost figure out what to do with all that time. but back to the point. i would like to start by saying that volunteering has many facets. i think the reason we're talking here today is primarily in terms of the volunteer fire department. but when we think about how we can promote more civic engagement in europe and how we can better support those who are involved, we have to realise that there are many people involved in sport, humanitarian aid, churches and volunteer firefighters, and there are many more things to tell. in many eu countries, these eu countries are really dependent on voluntary commitment. this is partly the case - and we have now seen this in the matzak ruling of 2018 - so that mps are also worried: is it not the case that the maximum working hours are exceeded, that you limit voluntary commitment. but i would say, well, actually, this voluntary commitment has to remain voluntary. that only counts as working time, because apparently you have to respond within eight minutes of being on the volunteer fire department. i was in the volunteer fire department in germany, but it's different there. you just try to get enough people in the pool so that there's always enough time to respond to emergency calls. and if that's not the case, then the professional fire brigade will come, which in case of doubt will take a little longer. i think that it would not be difficult to discuss this in detail now - and that is two and a half minutes. that is why i think the voluntary initiative is very important. and i think there are a few other ideas that you can go into, for example, in the area of volunteer firefighting. it is not easy for many, even smaller, organisations that want to get involved in forest fires internationally to get registered - here is where you can work. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a civil protection mechanism, the setting up of a voluntary service, and the facilitation of access to small organisations. but it is also the case that we could think: can we not set up a european volunteer fire brigade, so that there are many different units in different member states? and in the event of disaster, it would be helpful if you had the possibility of having trained people come to greece from germany, for example, who are already familiar with the equipment and who would then have to do extra shifts. you don't have to ship a big piece of equipment, you can just bring people who volunteer to go there. and having more european networking here would certainly help.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think we can agree today - and this is very often the case on thursday afternoons - that the presentation is very good and that the initiatives that are in place are also in principle correct. but some colleagues have already mentioned this: we can never maintain a voluntary attitude if we force it into the crusted bed of working time regulations - that will not work. and we're going to completely destroy that voluntariness if we start to kill the actual thing -- the initiative and the commitment -- with rules. i would just like to give you a few examples to show that this is not possible, it is not appropriate. the fire brigade is by nature operating in areas where it is constantly breaking the rules: it runs red lights, it goes to what is its workplace, areas where the fine dust pollution is so immense that the trade union would go up the walls, etc. so the fire department is deliberately breaking and must break rules in order to do their job. that's why rules can hurt. we've seen this with nursing services. now, in the lockdown, there were so many regulations made, and the nursing services were not able to do their job properly. and then people ended up dying alone in nursing homes, and we go to disaster relief in syria, for example. we also talked about turkey, and that worked to some extent. but there are sanctions in syria. and what happens? sanctions are inhibiting voluntary action, they are inhibiting the work commitment of many people. you can't work, and you shouldn't be. we must not destroy and destroy this good initiative - voluntary action - by making rules. and young people in particular, they need this enthusiasm, they need the fire with which we reach people. i would therefore like to end by quoting again very briefly what saint-exupéry said: if you want to build a ship, do not start by gathering wood, cutting boards and distributing the work, but awaken in the hearts of men the longing for the great and beautiful sea. that's what this is about. i would ask you, commissioner, to ensure that this willingness is not lost.
in writing. the commission has already made a number of proposals. if you really want to promote and support volunteering and volunteering, you cannot apply rules to these activities that are not designed for them and that only harm them. the aim is to encourage volunteering and not to discourage it. the working time directive was not designed for voluntary work. voluntary service is a non-profit-making service and cannot be equated with work. such activity must be regarded as a purely private leisure activity and not as an employed activity. the question of whether the working time directive should apply to volunteer firefighters has caused a great deal of excitement in germany for more than 10 years, and rightly so. germany has a very extensive network, which is based mainly on voluntary work. every small community has a volunteer fire department. application of the directive to volunteer firefighters means that most volunteer firefighters are no longer able to work because they cannot meet the requirements of the directive. the directive's occupational safety system is not applicable to the specific situation of firefighters. it is also a matter of values. volunteer firefighters volunteer their lives for other people, in service to the community. i will always oppose initiatives which undermine these values.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, while we support having a debate on this topic, the commission has indicated that they are willing to look into changing the rules, so i think it would be good for us, as parliament, to also take a position in writing – in a resolution – to indicate how we want to see those rules changed beyond just having the debate. so i would invite colleagues that we in march ii, not this week, but that, with a bit of debate, we also approve a resolution on this topic.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the cheapest energy is the one we do not use. never has this been more true than in modern times, when far too many people have had to choose between warm homes and warm meals because of russia's war of aggression and the associated energy crisis that has multiplied their heating bills. so it's not just our climate goals that require rapid action. it is also about reducing our dependence on fossil fuel imports and protecting our citizens from high costs. yes, that will require investment. for germany, the reconstruction credit institution expects 254 billion euros - that's a lot of money. but may i remind you that 200 billion euros were allocated last year to the german gas price brake alone? money that does not add to the value of houses, jobs or the quality of housing, but that goes to countries where no one would want to live in this room! that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we need these guidelines for better energy performance in buildings. i ask for your consent tomorrow at the vote.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the proposal on energy efficiency in buildings proves that there is no escape from the ideas of the brussels world-improvers. so now the home, the last refuge from gender and climate mania, must believe in it. the eu is to make it compulsory for all new buildings to have photovoltaic systems by 2028 and for all homes by 2032. public buildings are expected to be zero-emission as early as 2027. 15% of parking spaces are to be reserved for bicycles, one charging station for battery carriages is to be built for every five parking spaces. in the next ten years, 16 million homes in germany alone will need to be fitted with new facade insulation, roofs, windows and heating systems. long live the emission-free living in the thermos mold and fire safety problems included! the whole thing is to be accompanied by government enforcement and subsidies of eur 150 billion. the amount of the aid is eur 330 per inhabitant. that should at least cover an insulated toilet window.
in writing. in order to enable the eu to achieve its climate-totalitarian goals, forced remediation is now being introduced. the eu is increasingly interfering with the freedoms of choice and fundamental rights of citizens. this policy is essentially antisocial and shows how far the commission and parliament are from reality. we live in times of rising housing prices, expanding energy costs, skills shortages and inflation. recently, the emissions trading system has been extended to buildings. this energy efficiency directive will make housing even more expensive and will overburden many homeowners and households. if these plans are to be implemented, 58% of german residential properties would have to be renovated by 2033 to achieve an energy class of at least d. by the way, 46 percent of the owners in germany do not know what energy class their building has. for a single-family house with 160 square metres of living space, the cost of the 'house & grund' is estimated at eur 93 950. our citizens are being ripped off by both national and eu political elites. although in germany a total of eur 496 billion was invested in energy-efficient building renovation from 2010 to 2018, this has had little impact. instead of making life increasingly more expensive for our citizens, policymakers should address the real challenges, such as the harmful effects of illegal immigration, rising crime and the enormous need for care.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. 2030 always sounds a long way off. but it's only seven years. only seven years until we have to reduce our emissions by at least 55% in all sectors, as we have committed ourselves to do, both legally and internationally. and these are not numbers that we have somehow rolled, but rather hard planetary boundaries that we are negotiating here. we are the generation of politicians who cannot speak abstractly of these distant goals. we must be concrete and we must involve all sectors of the economy. we will be judged by how well we have made this decision. and it is good that we have done so well in the dossiers to be voted on this week. i would like to thank ville in particular for the good cooperation he has shown with us on the lulucf regulation. it is the only way to achieve our climate target of 57%. and together with the repowereu package for energy independence from russia, there is even up to 60%. so we've really shown here that with collaboration and diligence, we can actually exceed our own climate goals. but i am not just concerned with these numbers and these abstract goals, i am concerned with this how. i am fighting for an eu where neither place of residence nor wallet can decide whether you can live sustainably. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have to say, given the challenges and negotiations that are still ahead of us - when i think of the pesticide regulation, when i think of the nature recovery directive or the vote on the incinerator phase-out - i am a little worried that we are losing that spirit of negotiation. the constant talk of a climate policy open to technology is, above all, about one thing: the adherence to a fossil economic model promoted by massive subsidies. the fight against the burning of fossil fuels and other eu climate change instruments is precisely protecting these fossil interests, not the interests of consumers. you're not going to shape the future with these window-shopping debates. you're scaring people about the future, and you're stealing from responsibility. they want to let the market regulate, which has such an impressive track record of doing something about the climate crisis. they do not support the interests of the majority of citizens, but are drawn to the interests of those who have built a profitable business model out of the exploitation of people and the planet at the expense of everyone. the 'fit for 55' package is a huge step towards climate neutrality by 2050. it shows what is possible when we have the political will. if we want to ensure that all people in europe have a secure, climate-neutral future, we must not block now, but roll up our sleeves and ensure that future-oriented technologies and social participation are available to all people. (the president declared the common position adopted as amended)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the green deal is the central piece of legislation of this election cycle. we have made a promise to our voters, to our children, to the next generation, to contain the climate crisis, to meet the climate goals and the paris agreement. that's how we'll be measured. but there are also attempts in this house, and particularly from the conservatives, to undermine key elements of the green deal. if they vote against the fuel-free, the climate-friendly transport, they vote against the climate targets. if they vote against home renovation, they vote against climate targets. when it comes to swearing, you don't run away free to follow the motto: wash my fur, but don't wet me. the industry is particularly keen to see clear guidelines on the incinerator. we can cling to the past, but the united states and china are completely overtaking us in industrial policy. the air conditioning industry, the solar cells, the wind turbines, the green steel and yes, above all the electric cars - these are the secure jobs of tomorrow. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. so don't screw this up. we need to take advantage of the boom in the climate industry. i say to the german government that you are behaving like an elephant in a china shop. this is a threat to the way we make laws here in europe. they voted to burn the place down. stand by your conduct. otherwise there is no stopping other countries. then everyone here will always try to squeeze something out for themselves at the very end.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european external action service should therefore be given more powers. this means, first of all, more money and fewer rights for the member states, although the eac's record so far is indeed a poor one. the ead has failed utterly on the question of the fate of our continent, mass migration. although most of the illegal migrants are from africa, only four african countries have been negotiated return agreements, and they are not even legally binding. this is a total diplomatic failure. of course, the partner countries are completely ignoring the agreement. speaking of total diplomatic failure, the eu's foreign policy is all about peace. i can't see any of that in the war in ukraine, nothing at all, quite the opposite. the present report will not improve these problems but will create more overpaid welfare posts with incompetent ideologues. the report must therefore be rejected in its entirety.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. how does this house feel about democracy? i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. on the other hand, when political opposition is systematically suppressed in a member state, there is great silence, if not secret cheering. at the afd party congress in hesse, the license plates of all participants were documented and published on the internet on the left-wing platform indymedia. the information was then used to damage more than a dozen vehicles of party members in a hotel parking lot on the following night. at the afd party congress in baden-württemberg, left-wing protesters escalated to the point that 53 police officers were injured. the political struggle in germany has long since reached a new dimension. the opposition is not dealt with by argument but by force. there is open political persecution. the afd now accounts for 50% of all violent attacks on political parties. if you defend democracy only where it suits you and not wherever it is necessary, you are not a democrat.
draft opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. there is no data economy without data protection. we need to be clear that nothing about the internet of things and nothing about this particular regulation changes or diminishes the already existing standards of the gdpr. personal data remains personal data and the rules for handling it remain. the fundamental right to the protection of personal data requires and sets high standards, and we in the libe committee have successfully and resolutely defended them here. our fundamental right to privacy is not just about defence, it's about empowering our citizens to access our own data and do with it what we, as citizens, want to do with it. with the data act, we are going even further than the data protection regulation by also giving a right to access data directly on the internet of things to the devices we use. that is not an obstacle to regulation. this is the basis for innovation and economic growth, because it fosters consumer confidence. this is about something. the value of the data economy is immense. the commission has also said that. what is important to me is that this is not just about promoting business and innovation, this is about the eu's ability to position itself as a global player and standard-setter in the global technology market. this is a geostrategic imperative. the confidence of the citizens is also important.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear commissioner breton, dear pilar, dear colleagues, more and more devices – windmills, ships, aeroplanes, paper-cutting machines – are connected to the internet. it’s the internet of things, after all. but who can have access to the non-personal data that these devices produce and who is allowed to share it with others? that is what the data act is about: deciding who should have access to what kind of data coming out of connected devices. that’s why i think this law is actually right up there with gdpr and the digital services act when it comes to the importance for the european digital economy. i think overall we have risen to the occasion, and here i want to explicitly thank pilar and all the other colleagues for the very good cooperation that actually helped us improve the commission’s proposal. let me give you two examples of where i think we definitely improved the proposal. first, we put the user, the owner of the connected device, back into the centre. they can decide who they want to engage in contracts with and who they want to share the data with. second, we created incentives for both the user and the data holder to share data on data markets. and that’s really the core. we need liquid data markets so that new cool startups can come use this data, connect it and build new ideas and applications. however, there’s one point where i don’t think we got the balance correct, and that is what kind of data can be shared. here, we gave a million excuses to the data holder to not share data. trade secret protection, security settings, non-compete provisions, complex algorithms; we made the list so long that the data act is in the risk of becoming a data suppression act, allowing data holders to basically not share data. that’s short-sighted protectionist policy. we need to make sure that in the next step, when we negotiate with the council, we have the maximum amount of data to be shared with the user who is actually producing the data with its use. so let’s fight for that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. data is not the new oil, fortunately. data is the new soil from which innovation can grow, and it is this innovation that must be encouraged. by setting out clear rules on who can use what non-personal data and how that data can interact. but one principle must be clear: whoever generates the data decides how it is used. it cannot be that the data from the use of a smart refrigerator automatically belongs only to the manufacturer. because for innovative applications and business models, we need access to start-ups and research. in the cloud sector, i very much regret that the internal market committee has frustrated the commission's ambitious drive to break into the market dominated today by two dominant digital groups, in order to give european providers a real chance and to offer our small and medium-sized enterprises more choice. we are cementing here a dependence from which we in europe are actually trying to free ourselves. the proposal is weak - unfortunately - as is the whole of digital policy in terms of climate protection. the increasing volumes of data will require large amounts of power and resources. that's why it's so important that we think together about the green deal and digital legislation, that they go hand in hand. because we need smart digitization to save the planet. i hope that we can still take advantage of the opportunities that are now emerging in the field of ecodesign and artificial intelligence to do that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to sincerely thank you, mr president, for your contribution and the continuous work you are doing to provide ukraine with the necessary, necessary and timely support. you visited and met with the president of ukraine on the eve of this war, and you persistently convinced the leaders of other countries that it was necessary to support ukraine by organizing financial, military and other support. thank you very much for that. but we would also like to see you more active in your policy towards solving internal problems, including lithuania's, such as huge inflation, rising food and energy prices, bank interest rates, when it becomes difficult for individual families to survive. the income of the country's farmers, the management of the milk crisis and the possible consequences of this crisis for the future of lithuanian agriculture are of concern. i am concerned that the country's regional policy has not yet lived up to expectations, as the income gap between those living in the country's regions and the capital is still quite large. this is also, of course, a european problem. i understand that the war in ukraine has exacerbated these problems. but stating this is not the answer. it would be wrong to hesitate and not take action to improve the lives of the people of europe.
madam president! mr. president, i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! that was a big speech. i very much regret that so few, about 60 members, less than 10% of the parliament, listened to it, because it is worth listening to the voice of lithuania, the baltic countries, from our region. i'm sorry, but that's the reality of it. i'm glad to see you again, because the president is in poland for our national holiday. it was a symbolic visit, an important political message. i was wondering what you'd say today, mr. president. and i foresaw everything you said. i anticipated it because i knew you were going to talk about ukraine. thank you for that. that you'll talk about history and you'll want to show lithuania as a country that's part of this european mainstream. i remember, moreover, how the seimas, the lithuanian parliament, was the first and the only one to vote by acclamation for the adoption of the european constitution, which was subsequently rejected in referendums by the netherlands and france. but i think that sometimes it's worth discussing and arguing when it comes to europe, because out of such a dispute come decisions that can be good for the european union in the long run. finally, i believe that you will support the polish minority in lithuania, because pluralism, because the protection of minorities is something that is absolutely fundamental in the european union.
madam president, here we are again faced with a speech which, pointing to war without pointing to solutions to end it, seeks the scapegoat for all evils. and yet the concrete problems facing the people - aggravated by the policies of sanctions, sectoral liberalisation, concentration of production, precariousness and low wages promoted by the european union - remain unsolved. where are the measures to reverse the increase in poverty and stop the undue concentration of wealth? where are the measures to contain the loss of purchasing power and the brutal increase in the cost of living? what measures are being taken to put an end to the exploitation and speculation of the large economic and financial groups and their obscene profits? what initiatives to invest in public services and to defend universal and solidarity-based social security? what proposals are there to put an end to the assault on labour rights, the increase in exploitation, precariousness and the deregulation of working time? the people want peace, they want what they're being denied. in portugal, as in all of europe, the mobilization of the population and of workers is intensifying. the number of actions demanding the right to a decent life, to work with rights, to wage increases is increasing. the end of speculation and exploitation, the intervention in markets, the fixing of maximum prices. for the right to health, education, housing. for peace. this is the voice you need to hear.
the commission has already done so. you said, and i quote, the aim is to destroy what is precious and valuable to us in europe through violence and lies. that's the way it is. the brutal russian war of aggression against ukraine has brought us two lessons for european unity. firstly, the countries of europe are dependent on each other for their defence. nato and a european defence union are more important than ever. secondly, we are also interdependent in our energy supply. germany it has already begun it would have been wise in recent years to follow the urgent appeals from estonia, latvia and above all lithuania and from polish colleagues in energy policy. we used to say in germany that the future of the baltic states lay in europe. today, as a german member of parliament, i can say the same thing about defence, energy and above all, mr president, about the clear orientation you have presented here. i can say that the future of europe lies in the baltic. you said, and i quote again, the spirit of the baltic way must guide europe. i agree with you on that too. i did indeed. but sometimes when we talk about the future of europe, there are concerns that further steps towards european integration could curtail the say of small states. i think the baltic way is telling us: the opposite is true. the european union must be able to take decisions in common, and this can save us from national isolation. that's why this cruel war of aggression must be a wake-up call. you said it yourself: we are at a historic crossroads. when we talk about europe's defence capability, we must no longer depend on who is elected to the white house by chance. we are faced with important steps which we can only take together as a european response: defence, energy, the environment, the environment, the environment. you have mentioned many other examples and subjects. jean-claude juncker once said: 'we have two types of states in europe, small states and states that know they are small. and mr cañas said that with the right policy, europe can become a very big country from a small country. we in the european parliament have done it. a small member state can become a very big one. one year later, i am still proud that we elected roberta metsola from a small country as our president. you can see this symbolically: from a small country you can go up and do something very big.
i have to say, madam president, we had a rather mixed picture here yesterday on the building efficiency directive and i therefore have a request under rule 59. we have seen the chaos that is spreading in the council right now over the abolition of the internal combustion engine. we are already seeing opposition from two member states to the building efficiency directive, and we are also seeing considerable opposition here in the house across the political groups to the coercive nature of the measures. i therefore ask that this proposal be referred back to committee.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the recent economic forecast by the european commission should be a wake-up call to us all. four member states are now officially in recession. the four largest net per capita contributors to the eu budget are germany, austria, sweden and denmark. the eu, unlike the us, has not recovered from the coronavirus crisis, partly because it is more affected by rising energy and food prices than anyone else because of its foolish climate policy. germany is particularly affected, where growth is collapsing and wages and pensions are not compensating for the galloping inflation. the ecb, however, ignores its mandate and accepts inflation. germany now pays over 40% of the total eu budget in net terms. what do the germans get for it? the highest inflation in over 70 years, economic stagnation and the escalation of the ukraine conflict, which did not create stagflation but fuels it. fifty years ago, lebanon was the pearl of the middle east. then the country took in millions of unqualified refugees. inflation has risen, and gross national product per capita is lower today than it was in 1970. germany is well on its way to becoming the lebanon of central europe. the european union is a great example of this. maybe you'll find your new tax colony there.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it seems very difficult for some to imagine that the economy is not in a vacuum, but rather is affected by social and environmental crises. a good example of this is the delayed energy transition. people are suffering from the high inflation that is driving up prices all over europe. but inflation is above all a fossil crisis. when dictators and autocrats turn their taps, fossil energy becomes scarce and expensive, while renewables were cheaper than ever. the good news is that with the green deal, we have the tools to break free from this dependence. we must make visible the impact of ambitious environmental and climate policies on european economic policy. the aim of our economy must not be the growth of gross domestic product but the social well-being within planetary boundaries. this is the reality that the european semester 2023 must finally be measured against.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the eu wants to introduce a european minimum income. this is surprising, because each member state has its own legislation on this. in germany it was hartz iv. hartz iv was introduced to help the longterm unemployed to re-enter the labour market. it didn't work very well: in 2022, just 1.6% of hartz iv recipients made it. this is also exciting, because in 2022 there was a great need for workers, for example at german airports. it's sad that not a single hartz iv recipient has managed to put a suitcase on a conveyor belt. another interesting fact is that 5.5 million people in germany are in hartz iv, 2.5 million of them foreigners. the number has increased by 45% since 2016. another interesting fact is that 66% of syrians in germany are receiving hartz iv. and now there's something new: now there's citizen money. so there's a chip on it. i think this is a slap in the face to the many people who work in the low-wage sector, and there are many, many millions of them in germany. if we want to fight poverty, we have to help these people; we have to support these people, and we have to give the citizen fundraisers the opportunity to work, to do charitable work, to feel appreciated. no one is allowed to rest in the social hammock.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not people who eat only dry noodles at the end of the month, children who go to school hungry, pensioners who look for bottles in garbage cans, workers who can no longer make ends meet despite working - these are no longer the fates of individuals. even before the price explosion, one in five eu citizens was at risk of poverty. how many are there now, commissioner? how many people are made to feel that they are personally to blame and have failed? how many people are there? the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat poverty. poverty is not an isolated fate. it has a system, and the rich eu is allowing itself far too much poverty. it is therefore right and timely that we should be discussing minimum safeguards in the eu. but we need not just a recommendation, commissioner, but a binding directive. we must ensure that we have basic social protection systems in all member states that guarantee a life of dignity, that guarantee the minimum of existence, that enable participation for all, that provide access to education, retraining and further training, and that create good jobs that protect against poverty. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. ladies and gentlemen, the divide between rich and poor is not a god-given one. the cause is systematic. yes, it is profit maximisation, and past policy decisions have exacerbated this situation. so let's put a stop to this. i would like to ask the commissioner to propose a directive within this parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, madam minister, i would like to thank you for your work. it is right that we should put this resolution to the vote here. but i would like to remind you again what this is all about. we are not talking about whether we need social systems or not, as some people are already questioning, but about the adequacy of these systems and their accessibility. we see here that there are huge problems in europe. i honestly sometimes wonder - i don't know how the commissioner is doing - whether it is a curse or a blessing to have been active in european social policy for so long. i have seen many presidencies, many resolutions, many omc processes, many voluntary commitments - none of them work. i therefore cannot imagine electing a new eu commission president who does not put the introduction of a minimum income directive at the top of the agenda. i will always honour this directive as the fintan-farrell directive wherever he is now. it is simply time and overdue to take action on the directive.
we are talking about energy security, and we see that with the current legislation, the electricity market design and the red, it will be in place in two years, and that leads to investors basically now waiting for two years for the more beneficial setting. so now, we need to bridge these two years. there is the idea of a renewable energy booster, a european-wide tender of 120 gigawatt – 60 gigawatt solar, 60 gigawatt wind – and it could also help to bridge the gap between the 40% renewable target from the council in the renewable energy trilogue, and the 45% of you and of us the parliament. so what do you say about such a renewable booster? i think it would be a great idea also to europeanise the electricity market. do you agree that we should have something like this?
thank you, high representative, for being with us here today. the topic of the debate is indeed a transatlantic approach in a multilateral world. and one area where we can witness at least a multitude of actors at the moment is the middle east. over the weekend, china brokered a deal with saudi and iran, while we still have no special envoys, the eu. the us president declared the jcpoa as dead while you are still trying to negotiate it, some eu member states and the us export arms to saudi arabia or the uae, while others have embargoes in place, and many gulf countries are trying to be friends with the eu, with the us and russia at the same time. so i am wondering if there is still such a thing as a transatlantic alliance, or at least a transatlantic approach to the region, and if yes, what it looks like along these very concrete examples.
i’ll take the chance of a follow-up question specifically on the jcpoa and the fact that we see nuclear enrichment now in iran. are there any consultations between the eu and the us on how either the jcpoa or an alternative plan to deal with this is being pursued?
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission is not the european union and israel share a deep friendship. but friendship also means addressing worrying developments - and i am worried. i am concerned about the new spiral of violence in the palestinian territories. i am concerned about the planned judicial reform of the new israeli government, which could lead to the end of the separation of powers and the independence of the judiciary. the demonstrations in israel and the statement by president herzog also show that israel is a vibrant, defensive democracy, striving for better solutions. we as the european parliament, as democratic partners, should offer ourselves as trustworthy partners and support each other. i think that being in dialogue with each other, speaking openly, especially as friends, is more constructive than the usual blame game between the two sides. i am counting on courageous politicians in government and in opposition who are able both to create a social consensus in israel and to overcome the violence in the palestinian territories later on - as a continuation of the abraham accords.
mr president, since weeks, thousands of israelis have been demonstrating against the judicial reforms. the new netanyahu government plan is not a judicial reform: it’s a revolution. a revolution in a very bad, dangerous direction. and what’s the plan? it seeks full power of the appointment of the nine-member committee that selects the judges of the supreme court. it wants to give the knesset the ability to override court decisions by a simple majority, give ministers authority to appoint legal advisers in the ministry as opposed to the attorney general doing so. human rights are in danger. women’s rights are in danger. rights of minorities will be in danger. i am very worried about the rights of the citizens in israel and the neighbour states it has consequences for. we are consequently on the side of the democrats in israel. we are solidary with the demonstrators on the streets in israel. we are the partners of israel and not of a crude group of old grey, conservative fascist men.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, all masks are finally off. the government of georgia is determined to sabotage the country’s european path. thankfully, the people of georgia are not taking it. there is no way back to the russian swamp. there’s no way back to the curtailed freedoms and autocracy. there’s only one way forward: to georgia’s european future. the people of georgia are so unlike their government. everyone took to the streets to make their voices heard in tbilisi, in brussels and especially in moscow. those in the streets of tbilisi, batumi or kutaisi spoke on behalf of over 80% of georgians. you cannot wash away the european identity with water cannons. burning the eu flag will not burn europe from the georgian hearts. violence is futile against those who fight for freedom. the constitution of georgia is sacred, and its article 78 demands the government ensures the full integration of georgia into the eu and into nato. yet the government has put the interests of one oligarch and the kremlin above this constitution. when those in power betray their people, those people will demonstrate their power. it is time to take a cue from georgians and fight for the european future. the people of georgia deserve to be in the eu, even if their current government does not.
mr president, as a person born in the western part of the european union, i only know a close european union. and i must say i am so humbled and inspired when i see people taking to the streets fighting for their country to take the european path. but it is their government letting them down over and over again, it is the ruling party breaking commitments on uniting the country, backing out of international agreements and not doing the slightest bit to work for the reforms to make their way into the eu candidate. their free media is suppressed. the political opposition is being oppressed. former president saakashvili is being left to die in prison. an opposition leader has been detained and beaten in prison last week, and the russia-inspired foreign agents law is just the latest tip of the russia-inspired anti-democratic iceberg. it would massively limit ngos. it would limit civil society. it is only thanks to those brave people taking to the streets that this law is off the table for now. so our message today must be very clear: to the government of georgia, the international world is watching your actions very closely. and to the people of georgia, this house stands by you in solidarity when you stand up for your freedom, for your european future. we are with you.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the kremlin’s playbook is as rigged as it is predictable. if you cannot win the hearts and minds of the people in a neighbouring country, threaten them with a war. if blackmail fails, destabilise the country from within. the ploy disclosed by the moldavian government has putin’s fingerprints all over it. it is an old kgb trick to take advantage of social hardships of the people. send in groups of trained titushkies and orchestrate an overthrow of a democratic government. because there’s nothing putin is afraid of more than a democratic, pro-western government next door. high energy prices have hit the people of moldova hard and that discontent is more than relatable. this is why the eu stands with them and their government in words and in deeds. the multi-million euro support that the eu provided must be followed by credible steps, including abolishing roaming tariffs and accelerating the membership path, so that the people of moldova can benefit from all freedoms that other europeans enjoy as soon as possible.
on behalf of the id group. – mr president, brexit proved that article 50 is more than a dead letter and that, whatever the difficulties, it is possible to leave the eu. the windsor agreement too is good news to eurosceptics. it shows that playing hardball with the eu may yield dividends. the windsor framework limits the jurisdiction of the european court of justice, it creates the unique situation where northern ireland is partially in and partially outside the single market, certain eu rules on vat and excise duties will still apply, but subject to exceptions governed by uk fiscal rules, while eu state aid rules are scaled back and won’t apply to uk subsidies to northern irish farmers. if belfast can have tailor—made exceptions to eu rules, why not eu member states? more importantly, the northern irish assembly will be able to veto new eu rules on customs, goods and agriculture from applying in northern ireland. if belfast acquires the right to veto new eu regulation, why not full eu member states? the windsor agreement proves that à la carte association with the eu is possible. countries may suit themselves but also reap the benefits of free trade and wider cooperation. all such sensible arrangements require is for the eu and the french and german governments to abandon their inflexible obsession with the uniform application of eu law and their misguided vision of an eu empire, and instead to accept that the eu should return to what it should have always been: a confederation of independent states which acknowledge their common, as well as divergent, interests. in 2015, when i was still an academic in britain, i chose to support brexit. i thought britain broadly had a good deal within the eu, but i was also convinced that the eu, led by merkel, would press ahead with ever closer union and further down the road to economic perdition. exactly that has happened. the eu has become the stagflation zone of the developed world. sadly, in britain, the situation seems just as dismal. eu enthusiasts blame brexit. i disagree. in fact, after brexit, the uk government continued to follow eu policies. it deliberately exaggerated the health risks of the corona crisis. it fell prey to climate hysteria. it failed to curb both mass migration and the woke culture, which stifles rational thinking. the uk government has made mistakes, but outside the eu these can be corrected. the windsor agreement and recent attempts to reform uk asylum law are a good start.
madam president, the announcement of the windsor framework was a relief, and i can only join the colleagues who congratulated mr šefčovič. thank you very much for the past years of your very patient negotiations. i think all of us remember the last two years of political attacks against the protocol by those who negotiated and signed it on the uk side, and we lost so much time and trust. what is now on the table, i think, is really an acceptable deal. people in northern ireland will be able to get their english bread or frozen sausages with minimum overhead for traders. northern irish manufacturers will be able to get machine parts or ingredients from great britain and sell finished products everywhere in the uk, but also in our internal market. of course, simplifications require protections. and i also say this as chair of the internal market committee. the eu access to customs data and our ability to suspend some of the simplifications in case they disfunction is crucial for protecting our single market. in that sense, the new arrangements are clear improvements compared to the current situations where little or no control happened at the entry doors of our single market.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 15 march 2023. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr andrey kovatchev, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on eu-armenia relations (2021/2230 (ini)) (a9-0036/2023).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, armenia is a remarkable european country surrounded by foes, geographically isolated, and struggling with an armed conflict, losing lives every day, and still its democracy is thriving. however, armenia’s bright future will be built on the shaky ground of its tragic past and a difficult present. as an eye-for-an-eye leaves everyone behind, there is no other option for the nagorno-karabakh conflict but a peaceful solution. we cannot abandon the armenians of nagorno-karabakh who are under constant threat of ethnic cleansing. atrocities of the past can never justify atrocity in the future. armenians and azerbaijanis need to relearn how to live peacefully, and the eu is here to help to rebuild bridges and trust. armenians understand perfectly that the russian led csto only serves russia and nobody else. it isn’t in putin’s interest to see a peaceful caucasus. all he wants is a military excuse to keep his boots on the ground in armenia and azerbaijan. if peace is in the caucasus is what putin is afraid of, then it is peace he should get. thank you very much to our rapporteur and all the shadows who had contributed to this report.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 15 march 2023. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
the next item is the report by mrs željana zovko, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on relations between the eu and azerbaijan (2021/2231 (ini)) (a9-0377 2023) on the situation in azerbaijan.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 15 march 2023.
the next item on the agenda is the explanations of vote.
the explanations of vote are closed.
the next meeting will be held tomorrow, wednesday, march 15, 2023, at 9:00 a.m. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the minutes of this sitting will be submitted to parliament for approval tomorrow after the vote.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in fact, you can see it again here: the american inflation reduction act was a wake-up call for europe. i listened very carefully to what mrs von der leyen said. she pointed out the similarities between what the united states is doing and what europe is doing. but she missed a crucial point. the united states has indeed succeeded in introducing into its legislation something like the justice40 principle, a strong social component in a time of great uncertainty. if we compare the two approaches, we see that the question of good working conditions in collective agreements is also included in the american guidelines for support services and that we have nothing. this dimension doesn't exist. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we also need sustainable social concepts. this really needs some work.
the commission has already done so. we want to be competitive and stay competitive? but if we keep going on like this, it's gonna be hard. the chip law, the law on critical raw materials, the data law - yes, these are steps in the right direction to strengthen our sovereignty and competitiveness, but if our smes are strangled, if they can no longer breathe, the best legislative proposals will do nothing. the small and mediumsized enterprises are the backbone of our economy. to keep this up, we need to break down the financial and innovation barriers. so it is about innovation and planning certainty and not about bringing out more and more subsidies and more and more bans. the bureaucracy must be cut down massively. i am grateful when it is said that the commission wants to abolish 25%. the level of the new bureaucracy is only rising by the day. if you could just take out twice as much as you're rebuilding, we might be at 50%. because bureaucracy costs time and money, time and money that cannot be invested in innovation. it's a good idea to wing it instead of load it. i am grateful to charles michel for this triad: investment, innovation, trade. please add: smes and cutting red tape this must be the european five. we are creating competitiveness, but more importantly, we are creating prosperity for the people of this country.
i have to say, madam president, the council meeting focused, as it has for months, on the crisis, the war, russia's inhuman attack on ukraine. we saw demonstrations in germany a few weeks ago, we saw it here in this room, people who, partly by negligence, partly by deliberate action, show their lack of empathy towards ukraine and their willingness to sympathize with putin. many of these people, including those in this chamber, accuse us of boycotting peace efforts. i recommend that they read the council conclusions. it says explicitly that we, as the eu, support peace efforts, that we support the peace plan of selensky. it even says we're ready for a peace summit. what doesn't suit them is something else. it is clear to all of us that we do not want to achieve peace at the expense of the victims of aggression, but for the victims of aggression. that's what's important to us. the will of this house to support ukraine remains unbroken. we are not talking about peace efforts, but about supporting efforts and being willing to support. that's the most important thing about this summit.
madam president, the global net—zero race is on, and for the eu to lead it, we need to speed up the green deal. clear and predictable rules as well as adequate financing are key to boost the transition of our industry. and two things i find crucial in this debate: we also need to create a market for our green products. and that is why i very much welcome the commission’s proposal on green procurement in the net—zero industry act. public procurement is 14% of our gdp, and we must use this huge leverage to support our companies who want to embark on the green transition. and secondly, as a lot of people mentioned today, we need to protect our main asset, the single market. and flexibilities on national subsidies require more european money, fresh money to prevent a subsidy race within the eu, to allow a truly common european approach. so i urge, especially also the member states, the council, to embrace parliament’s proposal on a sovereignty fund.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i was in athens last week, and so i would like to start with a quote from pericles, who said, "it is not a matter of predicting the future, but of being prepared for the future". so the question is, are we prepared for it? i think that on the one hand you can say that commissioner schmit has presented it: we have taken a lot of good steps recently: nextgenerationeu, fit for 55 a lot has been said here. but nevertheless, the impression crept in here - and this morning's debate showed this - that the wake-up call from the united states, which we have before us with the inflation reduction act, has not yet been understood here in europe to the full. i therefore agree with many who say: 'indeed, what europe needs to do now is to invest, invest, invest!' but not just in green technologies, but in people. the commissioner said it: skills. there is one group in which i think, in a labour market where we are looking for people with a lot of power, we should invest a lot more, and that is women. we have a lot of catching up to do. for this great change we have before us, we must take the people with us. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of the internet in the workplace. i think it is time, ladies and gentlemen, that we finally develop a different, sustainable concept of european competitiveness, which is not just cutting red tape, but also looking at good jobs - which is what the united states is doing - and that we combine the ecological and social aspects. i agree with mr séjourné and mr renew who say that improving future prospects really means daring to do more in europe, but in the sense that we are actually taking everyone along and not just the elites who will then benefit. then it will work.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it's getting crazy. last month we decided to phase out the internal combustion engine, which means the loss of 600 000 well-paid jobs in germany alone. yesterday we decided to force energy-efficient renovation of buildings, which makes housing unaffordable, older buildings virtually worthless and expropriation, i.e. forced mortgages, possible. today we are talking about more europe and more jobs. we are building the competitive economy of tomorrow for the benefit of all. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the institute of the german economy expects a loss of 330 000 jobs by the end of the year. this is the reality. this is the result of the green deal, this is the result of the climate socialist planned economy that is being operated here. i would like to remind you once again very clearly that at no time and in no country in history has socialist planned economy led to prosperity and freedom, but always only to poverty and lack of freedom. we have to stop that. that's why we have to get the green deal done. we need a common sense policy and a policy for the people.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to add my support to what mr karas said. we must not allow ourselves to lose sight of future technologies, but we must really take europe forward. but above all, this applies to high technology, and we must invest in research and investment in this area. but what i have noticed in all these debates is that when we talk about jobs, it is above all about the workers and not just about the creation of jobs. that means we need jobs in the sense of workers. i think that we must above all ensure that more and more companies are also taking responsibility for their employees, so that these companies also make decisions in the interests of their employees and not just in the interests of higher dividend payments. i think that can be done by building a structure where everyone in the company can really be involved. then we also have a future in sight that can make it so that the employees, the workers, really benefit from their jobs, get higher wages, shorter working hours and not just work for higher dividends. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is crucial for a more european approach to industrial and economic development.
on behalf of the id group. – madam president, madam commissioner, the failure of silicon valley bank is the largest bank failure since the financial crisis. the contagion risk remains non-trivial. two points. first, svb was a leading tech start-ups financier. if its failure were to crush the tech bubble, we should also have to worry about dozens of billions of ngu money which was funnelled into digitalization. ngu money was created out of thin air and may well vanish into it. second, svb’s chief administrative officer, joseph gentile, was the cfo of lehman brothers until its collapse in 2008. he also worked for arthur andersen, an accounting firm that went bankrupt in 2002. now, will this house ever address the problem, the impunity of these banksters? or, in view of mr gentile’s dismal record of achievement, is he now being considered as the next ex-pat president of the european commission?
i have to say, madam president, we are about to witness the biggest u.s. bank failure since 2008. the failure of silicon valley bank has caused a lot of turmoil in european markets, as evidenced by the recent losses in credit suisse's share price today. moody's has even rated the outlook for the u.s. banking system as negative. it seems that many have forgotten the lessons of the 2008 financial crisis. because this crisis is largely homemade. it is also a direct result of donald trump's deregulation policies. in the pursuit of ever-increasing profits, effective laws for small and medium-sized banks have been repealed. but we have no reason to point the finger at the united states. the banks are also under increasing pressure in our country. we have too many loopholes in some laws. for example, during the negotiations on the banking package, the conservatives and liberals in this house also made sure that exceptions for small and mediumsized banks were included in the decisions. we need effective regulation and we need more accountability from the banks. they must be prepared to take risks to avoid misconduct. the banks not the taxpayers are responsible!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. by signing the un charter, all countries undertake, in article 2 (4), to refrain from violence in international relations. article 51 reinforces the right of states to self-defence. the situation is perfectly clear to me. we support ukraine in its right to self-defence. the green group is still a little difficult to persuade, but it is still important to strengthen ukraine militarily. because we have the right to live in peace, and the right to defend ourselves when our lives and this peace are attacked. every tank, every drone, every cartridge that we provide to ukraine saves countless ukrainian lives. any support, whether financial or military, is an investment in european security. if ukraine falls, other countries will fall with it. the world as we knew it before 2022 is gone. putin chose war over peace, confrontation over cooperation, imperialism over a rules-based order. in this new world, where the stronger side is always right, we cannot afford the luxury of being unarmed and unable to protect our allies. i'm going to the slava ukrajini.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. 384 days and not a single eu diplomatic action to end the war in ukraine. instead, the eu has massively exploited the insecurity of the population here to transform the so-called eu diplomacy into a military union, to push aside the social barriers to militarism and the previous taboos against arms deliveries in war zones. for many, war means death, suffering, devastation, for a few, war is the party to let the cork pop in the days of the boss. most obviously for the defense industry. since russia invaded ukraine, rheinmetall's stock has risen in the dax. their value has doubled. now rheinmetall is even planning a tank factory in the ukraine. they are talking about expanding the eu's defence industry too. but the people of the eu want peace! for only peace can bring security to mankind. they are calling for social justice, not war cries. it's no coincidence that erich maria remarque's novel, in the west, received the oscar. people in europe have learned from their history. what did you learn?
i would like to conclude with these passionate words, and i would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that the rules of procedure require mutual respect in debate, and i would like to remind all members of this. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
member of the commission. – madam president, i think we should reflect on the fact that we are very privileged in this house, that we can have different views and nobody stops us having those opinions. that is not the case elsewhere and indeed in russia. so to close this debate, i have listened very carefully to all of the comments, including those who ask questions about the alternatives. we all want peace. i think there is nobody who does not want peace in this room. but, of course, we are concerned about helping ukraine in what is an illegal invasion of their sovereign territory. just to repeat the point that i made in my opening remarks: we fully support the three—track proposals presented to member states and we would hope for the support of this house in that regard.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, commissioner, honourable members, thank you very much for the debate. i think it’s very good that we have the possibility to talk about ukraine and the ways to speed up the delivery and production of weapons and ammunition. eu support for ukraine in all the relevant domains and for as long as necessary is, and will remain, a clear priority for the council and indeed for the swedish presidency. on the particular issue of military support and delivery of ammunition, we will spare no effort in the coming days, working with member states, the high representative and the commission to deliver swift results. together with our partners, we must continue to increase the pressure on russia through sanctions and to make sure that the sanctions already in place are implemented and followed properly. in dialogue with the partners and in line with eu and international law, we continue our efforts to explore our options to use frozen and immobilized russian assets for the reconstruction of ukraine. those responsible for war crimes and other more serious crimes will be held to account. we will continue supporting the investigation by the international criminal court. there can be no impunity for the crimes committed under russian occupation. we also need to work to ensure accountability for the crime of aggression. the agreement to establish an international centre for the prosecution of the crime of aggression against ukraine is important in this regard. the eu will continue to strengthen our political, financial and humanitarian, legal and military support for ukraine. it is of utmost importance that the reconstruction of ukraine can begin as soon as possible, and here the eu has a crucial role to play, together with our international partners. the eu and its member states have stood by ukraine from day one. so has this parliament. every day, as we witness brutal acts by the russian war machine, we are reminded of the fact that ukraine is not only fighting for their freedom, their land and their right to self-determination; they are also fighting for our shared european values. this is why we say that we will continue to stand by ukraine for as long as it takes.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. members who ask for the floor for a personal remark - and this was obviously the signal she gave me, not another spontaneous vote - will have the right to speak at the end of the debate on this item on the agenda, which is now being discussed, but only in person. i am not referring to the subject of the debate, but to this personal remark made to you by other speakers.
i have to say, madam president, mr bütikofer just said that he had to call me the fifth column of russia, putin's, because i stand up for peace and against militarism. i would like to point out to you, mr bütikofer, that i am one of the politicians in this parliament who have never spoken out against any regime. of course i criticize the putin regime for the invasion of ukraine. but i don't want you in this parliament to use this raid to convert the eu into a military union. i don't want to be the one to say anything when you're using this attack and the suffering of the people of ukraine for your own geopolitical interests. i will not be silent about mr putin, i will not be silent about mr erdogan, i will not be silent about any regime! i am not going to speak about the policy of the united states, which you call a 'premium partner'. how many wars has the united states fought, mr. bütikofer, that are illegal? how many times have you condemned that?
the debate is now closed with this personal remark.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on deaths at sea a joint eu response to save lives and ensure safe and legal migration routes (2023/2590 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, before we start, allow me to say that i am deeply saddened by the recent terrible shipwreck off the coast of italy that claimed the lives of over 70 people, including several children. i wish to extend my deep-felt condolences to the families and friends of those who lost their lives in this tragic event. sadly, this was not an isolated event. over the past years, thousands and thousands of people, many of them young children, have lost their lives in attempts to reach europe. this tragedy serves as a stark reminder that saving lives at sea is not only a legal obligation, but also a humanitarian and moral imperative. these tragedies also serve a brutal reminder of the need to take political action. moving forward on the migration pact and increased external action is imperative. fighting trafficking and smuggling is a priority. a joint european response is necessary. this is a broad agreement at the council that we need to adopt effective and lasting solutions to address the immediate and ongoing challenges on all routes, including the central mediterranean route. in this regard, the european council recognises ‘the specificities of maritime borders, including as regards safeguarding lives.’ it also underlines the need for reinforced cooperation regarding search and rescue activities. let me now say a few words on some of the main lines of action that the eu is pursuing. we welcome the relaunch of the european contact group on search and rescue by the european commission. several member states are engaged in discussions to set up an enhanced cooperation framework for search and rescue amongst source actors, including international humanitarian and maritime organisations. we also need to move forward with the work to partnership with third countries along the routes, increasing capacities in border and asylum management. providing financial support and technical and material assistance is ongoing in many partner countries. this work will continue and will step up where it is feasible. in this context, it is important to recall that the effective protection of the schengen external borders is not contrary to respect for the values and fundamental rights in the eu. indeed, our frontline member states have not only the right but also the duty to protect the european borders. this is a common responsibility and we manage, despite the considerable difficulties and challenges that we are faced with. naturally, in carrying out these duties, the schengen borders codes must be applied in accordance with the european and international law. honourable members, safe and legal migration is also a central part of a comprehensive approach to migration. with almost three million third-country nationals migrating to the eu every year, the opportunities clearly exist. these legal pathways have the potential to benefit migrants, countries of origin, as well as countries of destination. legal pathways also contribute towards reducing irregular departures and consequently saving lives at sea. when it comes to those most vulnerable, our member states have shown that they are committed to stepping up their efforts, in particular by way of resettlement. since 2015, successful eu-sponsored resettlement schemes and humanitarian admissions programmes have helped more than 130 000 people in need of international protection to find shelter in our member states. i should also mention the steps forward taken by both co-legislators towards an agreement on the union resettlement framework regulation. as a result, we will finally be able to move from ad hoc resettlement schemes to a stable framework with greater sustainability and predictability for the protection for those who need. honourable members, the eu needs a comprehensive migration policy that protects our borders, provides protection to those in need and prevents the loss of migrants’ lives. i outlined today a number of areas on which we are working. it is the combination of these different strands of action that will ultimately bring about results.
member of the commission. – imagine you’re a woman and all you want is a better life for your child. you think your only choice is to go on a very dangerous journey. imagine how high the waves, how small the boat, how crowded, how ice cold the wind, the pouring rain. imagine the fear, imagine the terror that you might not be saved. and all because you have not found a legal way of coming to the european union. since this parliament put this debate on the agenda, yet another tragedy at sea: 30 people missing, presumed drowned. behind the numbers, there are people, human beings, like shahida raza. she was 27 years old, from pakistan. she was such a woman. all she wanted was to care for her disabled son, hasan. she could not come legally, she thought. she’s one of their more than 80 people, as far as we know, who died in the waters off calabria on 26 february. the price of her life: eur 8 000 – the smugglers fee, blood money. the shipwreck apparently happened when the smugglers steered the vessel onto shallow ground. the smugglers abandoned ship, leaving their passengers to their fate. this tragedy must be a call to action. our first priority: save lives. our alternative: safe and legal pathways. our mission: fight the smugglers who ruthlessly endanger people’s lives. we must work relentlessly to bring them to justice, be always one step ahead. fighting smuggling is central to our action plan on the central mediterranean. we must step up the fight as team europe with member states. we are building partnerships to fight smuggling, supporting joint investigations between member states and north african partners. i will soon travel to tunisia – where, as you know, the situation is of concern – to boost our joint fight against smugglers and strengthen our comprehensive migration partnership. and we must do more to prevent irregular departures, stop people getting into smugglers boats and risking their lives at sea. but we need migration but in a regular way: safe ways, legal pathways. we must work as team europe with countries of origin, transit and destination to manage migration jointly with our partners along the routes, including the central mediterranean. to save lives, we also need to work better together. coordination is at the heart of the new european integrated border management strategy that the commission adopted yesterday, based on your valuable input from this house. and we relaunched the european contact group on search and rescue. i welcome the active participation of member states who are now working to improve situational awareness and cooperation at sea. but we need also to give people alternatives to smugglers, boats and trucks. legal migration for those who want to work. our societies and economies need skilled labour. healthcare alone lacks 2 million professionals today. so we are setting up an ambitious new talent pool to help people enter into the eu safely and legally. and we are working on the talent partnership so people can learn and work in key sectors in member states. and we will provide legal pathways for refugees, safe journeys to safe homes, resettlement and humanitarian corridors for 50 000 people in the next two years, supported by at least half a billion euro. we are linking community sponsorship of refugees to work by supporting companies with a targeted funding call to employ refugees now living in camps and in limbo. we have already successfully adopted the new blue card and i encourage the co-legislators to make progress and adopt the two legislative proposals on the single permit directive and the long-term residence directive. in the letter from president von der leyen to the leaders, she outlined the key operational actions on migration we are taking already now. she will update the council on progress next week. all of these policies and operations are important but will only be truly effective as part of the european migration policy. i am encouraged by the jha council last week, when ministers from across the eu committed to adopt the whole pact on migration and asylum during this mandate. i am encouraged by the swedish presidency committed to start trilogues already in june on the central pieces on solidarity and responsibility, including the special category for the search and rescue cases on relocation. and, of course, by the progress this house is making by adopting the mandates on the key pact files, i hope already this month. so let these tragedies at sea remind us: migration challenges need a european response to save lives, to manage migration, to fight smugglers, to open safe and legal pathways. i am fully aware that you, in this house, already know this. we need to work together to find solutions and to agree on the pact.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, every death at sea is an unspeakable tragedy. men, women and children losing their lives in the mediterranean is truly heartbreaking. and yes, we need, as this debate title suggests, a common eu response. and it starts by breaking the lucrative business model that smugglers have built at the expense of vulnerable people. we need to fight against these ruthless criminals who put hundreds of people on far too small, unseaworthy vessels in the most difficult of conditions at sea. thank god, luckily, most people are saved like the 1300 people last weekend. but for some, like the more than 70 people that perished off the coast of calabria, help tragically came too late. we need a fundamental change of policy. no matter how many search and rescue operations are deployed at sea, if hundreds of thousands of people continue to embark on this dangerous journey, help will never be able to reach all of them on time. arrivals by sea in italy have increased three times compared to last year. it means the risk of accidents has also tripled. so we need a common but also a holistic approach. no oversimplification of complex challenges by focusing on one solution only. most asylum seekers arriving in europe are not in need of international protection and they will most likely continue to risk their lives to come here irregularly, regardless of the legal pathways we put in place for those who need it. at least until we change the automatism that paying a smuggler equals entry to the territory of the european union. changing that needs to be the core of the policy europe finally adopts because there is no silver bullet: fighting smugglers, creating pathways, code of conduct for search and rescue, strengthening external borders, discouraging illegal migration, improving cooperation with third countries, increasing returns – these are all intertwined. they’re all part of the same puzzle. and we need to complete this whole puzzle. we need to adopt the migration pact in full if we want to make debates like the one today a thing of the past.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, eight years after the humanitarian crisis of 2015, the european union is still unable to find a solution to the most divisive common challenge of our time. the tragedy of the calabrian shipwreck due to the inhumane omission of the meloni government and the illegal deportations, robberies and ill-treatment of migrants by the greek authorities are the latest episodes of a shameful failure of maritime rescue in the european union. the italian and greek governments, and the commission, are obliged not only to investigate and explain the facts, but also to take measures to put an end to this situation and to these abuses. in the ten years between the tragedies of lampedusa and calabria, more than 26 000 people have lost their lives in the mediterranean. years of failed negotiations, paralysis and deadlock. now, instead of moving forward with the conclusion of a new pact on migration and asylum, the right prefers to debate whether to build walls on europe's external borders and who should finance them. if there's anything worse than material walls, it's the mental walls of the right. the walls represent a retreat of the idea of europe, of that reactionary and exclusive europe, of the most miserable and oppressive vision of the human being, of knowledge and of egoism. we really need to restore europe's dignity. the idea of walls is the false and magical solution of those ultra-nationalists interested in presenting foreigners as a threat that divides us. the million asylum applications by 2022 also shows that no wall will deter those fleeing war, famine or natural disasters. closing off legal avenues to protection will not kill the human survival instinct either. it will only increase migration and strengthen criminal gangs, enriched by exploiting the most desperate. the arrival of refugees and migrants is a phenomenon whose most effective and humanitarian management does not require false and ineffective measures, but a comprehensive approach based on solidarity and shared responsibility, such as that proposed by the new pact on migration and asylum; a new pact guaranteeing international protection for asylum seekers, promoting the integration of refugees and guaranteeing legal pathways for immigration, including education, employment and humanitarian visas. the conclusion of the pact is a test for the union not only with regard to a specific policy but for our very founding principles.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the commissioner for her words. i think that, as a parliament, we should endorse your line of action. you said, commissioner, ‘imagine you are one of those people’. i think this is where the problem begins: we have dehumanised those people. we cannot imagine anymore what it feels like because we have dehumanised them. it always strikes me how we are talking about an amount of migrants, rather than a number of migrants. a number of migrants is about individuals. let’s start and go back to our humanity and think of them as people. i entirely agree with my epp colleague who said there should be no oversimplification of complex problems. that is why i have a bit of difficulty understanding why the epp is always coming up with fake, simplified solutions like walls around europe. it doesn’t work. ok? it may work in an electoral campaign, but it doesn’t work at all in solving the problem. the renew group has written to the european council and called for swift action because we do think that the jha council now has to move. yes, we are working on the pact. it’s very difficult, but we hope we will get there. but that is not going to solve the problem today. the people who are getting on boats today need to be helped and that is why we need sufficient and adequate rescue capacity organised by the member states and the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think some people are right, i think so too. the smugglers, they're evil people who, for the wrong reasons, with criminal energy, send people on a dangerous path, and people die as a result. but the reason we are here today is not because the smugglers are sending people - this has been happening for decades - but because the rescue of people at sea is not being done, even though we could have done it. this is what happens on saturdays, for example, at two in the morning, three-thirty, people are calling out because they're going under, people are calling out and there's no one to send them help. no help is sent beyond 30 hours in international waters. the irini mission could have been there, the ngo boats could have been there, if they had not been blocked in italy. the cargo shipping could have been there and saved people, but no one gave them the mission to save them. i believe that if we take seriously what european values should be, if we take seriously that human dignity should be inviolable in the mediterranean, then we can no longer simply point the finger at the smugglers, after every accident, before the bodies are recovered, pretending that it is always the other people's fault, but we must finally begin to take the heart of the debate seriously enough to say: if someone is in distress at sea, we will send in lifeboats and rescue those people, no matter where they come from or why they are in distress at sea. the fact that this is not happening, ladies and gentlemen, is a european disgrace, a disgrace for which we should be ashamed. i hope we will not stop at the nice words, but that we will finally start to act. otherwise, we just have to assume that the next generation will think that we're really, really, really evil for what we're doing here.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen the left's brutality in the cutro tragedy, going so far as to accuse president meloni of having the blood of those who died on his hands. the fact is that they are killed by criminal organizations which every year traffic in hundreds of thousands of human beings who, in accordance with the leftist immigration propaganda, are persuaded to seek their fortunes in europe and are crammed into increasingly dilapidated boats by traffickers, who are aware that these boats could sink, but who are convinced that they can count on the help of ngos at sea whose mission is to promote the idea of no borders. dead because they were spotted too late by those whose job it is to guard our borders, but who do not have the means to do so, and also because they are hampered by the boycott campaign launched by the left, as the frontex case shows. so, as you can see, there is much to be said about the moral responsibility for these tragedies. but our duty now is to think of urgent solutions to uncontrolled migration flows, which are bound to cause many more deaths. the commission is finally starting to see the light of day and is announcing that it will accept our requests, such as the strengthening of frontex, the empowerment of flag states and more effective returns. and the place to welcome them is the reform of the dublin treaty, on which we will shortly begin voting in the libe committee. we therefore call on the left, if it really wants to put an end to these tragedies, to recognize the failure of its approach and to accept our call for greater external action at the borders, so that we do not simply redistribute migrants who survive at sea, but work first and foremost to dissuade them from risking their lives at sea.
for the left group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, the president! 26,000 people have drowned in the mediterranean since 2014. they have names, they have families, they were someone's loved ones. if we take that in, then we realize that the answer has to be more rescue, more life-saving at sea. besides, we have to celebrate the people who are actually out there saving lives. instead, we see governments accusing and persecuting solidarity organizations, non-governmental organizations. we can't have it like this. my question is: what is the commission going to do? what does the presidency intend to do? not tomorrow, not when the pact is adopted but now. because this is when people drown. the smuggling model thrives because people have no legal pathways to seek protection. as rapporteur for the resettlement programme at eu level, i am pleased that we have tackled this, but we are seeing far too few places. much greater commitment from the member states is needed, which is only part of the puzzle. the dangerous journeys continue because people are forced to leave their countries, such as afghanistan, iran, syria. our demands here today are concrete: closed militarised borders with epp walls are not the solution they increase mortality. we need life-saving operations at sea, preferably coordinated by the eu. we also need to support ngos and the life-saving efforts that are already being made. outsourcing migration work and control to third countries also increases mortality. it's a very dangerous road. open more legal pathways, create solutions that work to save lives, not to stop people from getting to europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the mediterranean, which is becoming more and more like a cemetery, the bodies of the shipwrecked men of cutro, italy, are still being recovered today. since 2015, 26,000 people have died. stricter penalties for smugglers and traffickers, although justified, are not enough on their own if the lack of legal and safe routes to the european union for those fleeing conflict and persecution is the only alternative to often lethal journeys. let me be clear: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of ships is not compromised. it must also be for the european union, because search, rescue and reception cannot fall disproportionately on the coastal and first-in countries. solidarity and responsibility are needed from all european countries. it is humanity that is at work, which the italian government has unfortunately failed to demonstrate, with an interior minister criticised for his statements without compassion and human sensitivity, and with a prime minister who, although she went to the site of the shipwreck, refused to greet the families of the victims. a government, let me tell you, inhuman.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the council presidency! it is self-evident: rescuing people in distress at sea is a national, international, european, moral obligation. but it also means that dangerous crossings are the consequence, not the cause. the causes are still on land, not at sea. it is therefore right that the presidency of the council should refocus on cooperation with countries of origin and transit: improving living conditions on the ground, preventing dangerous crossings and, above all, taking decisive action against the smugglers, the criminal networks and this very cynical but unfortunately profitable business model. it is not easy to bring together three institutions, 27 member states and most political families. we all know that in this house. but we are judged on whether we can contribute to solving the present situation, whether we can stop the swaying from emergency solution to emergency solution. the pact cannot be a magic wand, but it can create sustainable structures and procedures and restore confidence among member states. the balkan route of the past few weeks has shown that acting together as the european union has an effect. the pact has instruments for crisis, it has elements for effective return, for rescue at sea, for cooperation with third countries. it is accompanied, accompanied by proposals for legal means. it is based on effective border controls. it can have the best effect in the aggregate of its proposals. in 2021, i said in a similar speech, it's good that we're having this discussion again. this year, it's better to deliver. the increase in illegal border crossings and the increase in secondary migration call for more speed, more ambition and more europe. that is why i am also making an appeal to the house, and perhaps especially this week. in the past it was far too easy to criticise the council. we have to deliver now. because the only thing we don't have anymore is time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. of course, maritime rescue is a governmental task, and for far too long we have relied on non-governmental organizations to take over this task. in this respect, what is happening in the mediterranean is dramatic, and it is all the more dramatic if it happens in european waters - in italian waters, as in this case - as well. but, ladies and gentlemen, what we really need is not just a solution to the problem of sea rescue - where we obviously need a solution - but what we really need is the big throw, ladies and gentlemen. this month we will be voting here in the european parliament, in the home affairs committee, on the whole migration dossier and will finally find a position for ourselves as the european parliament. in order to be able to deliver, in order to give the citizens what they expect from us, namely, finally a solution to the migration and asylum question that is european, that provides european answers, ladies and gentlemen, the council, the member states must also take action. it is not possible for everyone to retreat to maximum positions, but everyone must be willing to compromise. we need a solution to the crisis, we need a solution to the aftermath of dublin and to solidarity within the european union. if we fail to find solutions here, proposals that we can then negotiate, and finally actually pass laws, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens will rightly say: you have not succeeded!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. once again, migrants have drowned in the mediterranean, and it is quite obvious to me that the eu is to blame for this. it is the european union which is not only fighting illegal mass immigration, but also encouraging it. it is she who supports the so-called private rescuers of the seas, instead of banning them, even though everyone knows that they provide auxiliary services to criminal traffickers. it is also the eu that is providing further incentives for migrants, and thus is attracting them to the mediterranean. reducing the death toll to zero would be easily possible by banning these private trawlers, temporarily introducing a state-run sea rescue service, returning all boats to them and returning migrants to their countries of origin and launching awareness campaigns there that the way to the eu is no longer worth it. if you want to reduce the death toll to zero, you go that way. all the others are just following their crude ideology of open borders and accepting that hundreds and thousands more people are dying, dying for no reason. this is your fault!
mr president, humanitarian aid is being criminalised. the italian government has passed a new law that restricts rescue activities. it requires rescue vessels to inform the authorities as soon as a vessel is rescued. ngos spend more time going to ports than rescuing people at sea. how long will we continue to watch these tragic scenes of corpses lying on our beaches, of children disappearing in the waves? thousands of lives shattered at the borders of europe. this situation requires concrete action by the european union, such as increasing the capacity of maritime authorities to patrol and destroy the role of smugglers. the introduction of humanitarian visas would allow asylum seekers to travel safely to the european union. europe must be in solidarity and save lives, in line with our values and human dignity.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank you very much for your transparency and, above all, for informing us that the rules have now changed, that only public authorities, international organisations or universities can pay for business trips for academic purposes. it is very surprising that commission officials are paid for their travel by the countries with which they are negotiating. of course, that's not possible! secondly, we do not need an ethics committee, nor do we need a disciplinary committee. what we need are clear rules, and those rules must of course be respected. the third point, and i have one more question, and i would like to join mrs daly in her request: we must consider whether the air transport agreement with qatar should be frozen. i would even demand we suspend it. because it is now the second case with the state of qatar, and i am already of the opinion that we must at least examine this. i would like to ask you specifically whether the commission has taken such steps or whether you are actually looking into whether this air transport agreement - particularly as it also concerns an airline which has established some very unfair competition - is not now being frozen, suspended or at least seriously discussed with the contractual partners whether they think that these are fair conditions?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, when it comes to criminal organisations, criminals have one goal in mind: profit. the same is true for corrupt oligarchs from russia or elsewhere hiding their wealth in the eu. so the most effective response is, to put it simply, to take away their stuff. and this is precisely what we will do. the commission introduced the directive on assets confiscations and we are working together now to make this proposal fit for reality, fit for times when a war at our doorsteps is being supported and financed by money that was never clean. we will enable member states to confiscate property linked to serious organised crimes and we cannot show any mercy in this. handing over the criminal assets to a family member is the oldest trick in the book and i am determined to close this loophole and it must be possible to confiscate unexplained wealth – also unexplained wealth connected to corrupt state structures, also outside of the eu and yes, to use it to compensate victims, also states that were damaged by this money and its wars. crime is not just about injustice, it is also about profits. let us work together to take away this motivation from criminals.
i have to say, madam president, the business model of organised crime makes excellent use of our internal market, it makes use of our freedoms, and that is why europe must also act in a coordinated way. clan crime, organized crime, disregards our rule of law; it exploits every opportunity, it exploits our freedoms. but the rule of law must be enforced consistently throughout europe, and europe is the solution: better investigations through cooperation between europol, but also a strengthening of eurojust, our judicial cooperation, because it is also about prosecutors being able to actually convict and put criminals behind bars. we must do more, and we must share more information. it's really hard to create more resources here, to actually create better information sharing. it's actually difficult. it's easier to just keep on doing more mass surveillance and passing new laws. but it is not new laws or surveillance that catch criminals, but better equipped police and more european cooperation. this is the way we should go if we are to fight organised crime in europe consistently.
i have to say, madam president, in some countries, particularly in southern and eastern europe, eu subsidies, including the corona fund, account for up to 20% of gdp. the 800 billion corona build-up fund has invited organized fraud in the supply and billing of defective protective masks, self-tests, vaccine doses and medical equipment, in green investments, illegal waste disposal and migrant smugglers. the european anti-fraud office (olaf), the court of auditors and europol have long warned of such fraud risks. however, the allocation of funds remains in the hands of the beneficiary national governments and is exempt from eu control mechanisms. we as members of parliament are not given much information - not even who the final beneficiaries of the funds are. the eu is buying political license with its lack of transparency and control. not unlike qatar, you know.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. these activists - i would call them fanatics - are not defending victims of human trafficking, women threatened with genital mutilation, victims of rape, victims of domestic violence, or abused children. on the contrary, as lobbyists for the abortion industry, they deny millions of unborn children the most basic of human rights: the right to life. and another thing: anyone who elevates abortion to a socially acceptable means of post-coital contraception is discouraging women from being responsible decision-makers in principle. this, ladies and gentlemen, is misogyny par excellence. you should be ashamed of yourself. and i am speaking to exactly 19 members of parliament out of 705. we should be ashamed of that, too.
madam president, the situation of sexual and reproductive rights defenders in poland is serious. yesterday, march 14, the activist justyna wydrzyńska appeared in court. she's accused of illegally helping a woman to have an abortion. justyna was sentenced to eight months of community service for illegal assistance in abortion by the polish court. human rights defenders are demanding the right to abortion and the right to own one's own body. yet they are victims of violence and stigma. they face all kinds of challenges. online and media harassment. such a climate makes their work and commitment very difficult. the european union has a moral obligation to stand up against such abuses. its deafening silence is contrary to the values of solidarity that we advocate. it is our duty to denounce such a sanction. as we said in new york, we must protect women who are fighting for their rights.
rapporteur. – madam president, ‘all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights.’ this is the first article of the universal declaration of human rights, and if we are serious about this article, human rights defenders are our closest allies. they do not fight with weapons. they use the power of words, of compassion, of persistence. they are not the enemy of the state but a force of good. this is why 25 years ago, the united nations adopted a groundbreaking declaration on human rights defenders recognising their important contribution to peace, to sustainable development and human rights, and requesting states to protect them and support them. the eu guidelines on the protection of human rights defenders are based on this declaration, and today we assess how eu institutions and member states implement these guidelines. why is it important? well, all around the world, human rights defenders are more and more under attack. they are threatened. they are persecuted. they are sometimes even murdered for doing things that we in here have the privilege to take for granted: to fight corruption, to protect local forests, or sometimes even to just dance in the streets. in 2020 alone, 358 human rights defenders were killed. each and every one of them is a voice that has been silenced, a person that dared to stand up, that dared to believe that change is possible so much that they were willing to give their life for it. ‘you are the only ones who still care.’ that is what a woman’s rights defender told me about a year ago in kabul, and by ‘you’, she meant the eu, and yes, she’s right. we still make human rights a priority. and at the same time, i was ashamed to hear this from her after we had failed so miserably in afghanistan. so how can we, the eu, better live up to our ambitions? and that here, my report, our report, has many concrete suggestions. maybe the main one: if we, eu and member states, act together, we can save lives and change structures. yet often enough we just don’t do that. so more consistency from country strategy to regular coordination of actions would be a big step forward. there is more, just a few short examples. we have to work on prevention and become more flexible in our funding. we need to extend our focus to the networks and family of defenders because often suppressive regimes often deliberately target the families to silence defenders. visas could be a key tool of support, yet rarely we make use of it, so defenders need easier access to visas. we have to speak more about the many different kinds in which you can defend human rights, about those who support women’s rights, about lgbti activists, about environmental defenders, as well as those who protect the rights of migrants and asylum seekers. they all deserve our protection. finally, we should be more proud about the support we offer, about the great work our delegations do in the field, because often those who need our support are not aware of the guidelines or of tools such as protectdefenders, and this needs to change. dear colleagues, too often we shrug our shoulders when we hear about the challenges human rights defenders face, as if the risks they take simply come with the job. but that’s not true. people being harassed, imprisoned, even killed only for defending human rights is something we should never accept. this is the line we need to hold. i’m confident that this report can guide us, the european union and member states, to become better allies to our allies on the ground.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, that is more than a year of work that’s coming to an end right now and it’s the first ever implementation report the human rights committee has done, so it’s also time for me just to say thank you because i wouldn’t have been able to get there alone. thank you to the eeas and the commission, which supported with a lot of insights, to the delegations in colombia and afghanistan that facilitated fieldwork, to the special representative eamon gilmore, but also to mary lawlor and michel forst, who supported in the project, to the global alliance of national human rights institutions, which protect defenders, to the many ngos working on that, and to my shadow rapporteurs. this file is really a good example of what we can achieve if we work together across party lines. thank you, janina ochojska, raphaël glucksmann, katalin cseh, miguel urbán crespo and assita kanko. it was a very good experience and i think 25 years after the adoption of the un resolution on the protection of human rights defenders is a good moment to review where we are, to improve our implementation, to bring a lot of political will behind it. and i count on all of you to make sure that the recommendations we make in this report will actually make it into a change of policy on the ground. then there is one last group of people i want to thank. i know no one more dedicated and courageous in fighting for justice and peaceful societies than human rights defenders. you all are crucial to making your communities, your countries, our world a better place. none of this is easy, so just from all of us, thank you for the work you do.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner, colleagues, we all agree that more transparency and international cooperation is needed from legal and also practical perspective. let’s not lose sight of a different view. international adoptions are complicated and expensive. they take a long time and the outcome is uncertain. so, for parents-to-be this is a nerve-wracking exercise and this is also not in the children’s best interest. there is, of course, the convention on protection of children and cooperation in respect of intercountry adoption from 1993, but many countries in and outside the eu have paused or banned international adoptions due to scandals, abuses and corruptions. this is the point that we want to make. we call on the eu, together with the hague conference on private international law, to take the lead and reinforce and modernise the legal framework on international adoptions and do it not just on paper. build a strong global network with expertise and capacity to facilitate international adoptions, always keeping the rights of the children and the best interest of the child as the binding guideline. this is our wish.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. criminals exploit poverty in developing countries to bring children into the eu as human commodities, often for the purpose of sexual exploitation or organ trafficking. adoption regulations must aim to find genuinely caring adoptive parents for these children, to close legal loopholes to prevent the disappearance of thousands of children in the eu. protecting children from paedophiles and sexual exploitation - that and only that can and must be their aim. but if it is an attempt to provide the rainbow mafia with a replenishment of children, then it would be the final proof of the abyss of evil in this house.
in writing. there is an alarming increase in international adoptions, with the adopted children turning out to be victims of human trafficking, mainly from sub-saharan african countries. several eu citizens who wanted to adopt children are currently being detained in africa on suspicion of child exploitation. you're looking at up to 20 years. international adoptions, particularly from african and certain asian countries, are increasingly associated with organised crime, including prostitution, paedophilia and organ trafficking. this makes children extremely vulnerable and would-be parents useful tools for criminals. international adoption is one of the many excesses of globalism. it is abusing the legitimate desire of european parents to have children in order to promote a europe of diversity. by facilitating international adoptions and thus skipping maternity leave, the eu is trying to convince women not to leave their jobs for the sake of their children in the hamster wheel of our competitive market economy. the demographics of europe are in an unprecedented crisis. we need a policy which supports european families in reproducing naturally. this requires tax incentives like in hungary, as well as improved social protection for pregnant european women and young european mothers. we need policies that promote natural reproduction, not politically motivated international adoptions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. after 15 years, i think it's good to have a we'll see how it goes. we hope nothing happens. when i entered the european parliament, i was not the first, but the only woman with a disability. now we are three women with disabilities in the whole parliament, six disabled people, six disabled members of parliament in the whole parliament of 705 members. why is that? because access to polling stations for the preparation of lists, to party organisations is not barrier-free, even if local party organisations still want it so much. the rooms are not barrier-free. i'm not talking about wheelchair justice. accessibility is often confused with wheelchair equality. accessibility is the full program! i hope that you will do so soon and then give the answer to my colleague mrs kuhnke who asked: 'what is the plan?' that's a plan, at least. barrier-free parliament that would be my vision. i hope we will finally get the anti-discrimination directive implemented.
mr president, as an elderly black woman living with a disability, which may not be visible at first sight, the disability of life, i know what it is to live with and suffer at all times not only discrimination, but also discrimination from people who are not expected to. that is why i have been hearing about this directive for years - i have been hearing about this directive for 15 years - why don't we put it into place? what is stopping it from being implemented? can one state, two states, three states block it all the time? and why should we here in parliament not try to react and say no, no to racism, no to discrimination? discrimination in all its forms, whether it be discrimination on grounds of age, disability or race. and it is a discrimination that we suffer not only in our schools, not only in the work and housing level, seeking housing, but also in our schools, in our administrations and sometimes also with the police as i myself experienced. that is why i hope that mrs dalli will succeed in implementing this directive this year. it is time, madam president, for this directive to be implemented within the european union so that we can build a world without discrimination. a world where all people, whatever their nature, can live and thrive here in europe.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, women and girls are the heart of the protests in iran. they are out in the streets waving their hijab. they are singing baraye azadi in the classrooms, they chase away militias and they even record videos dancing in the streets. but while those dancing in the streets on women’s day have been put in prison for two days, forced into confessions and forced into wearing a hijab, those poisoning schoolgirls with gas are still running free. and while the regime puts all its resources behind harassing and jailing girls, they only issue lukewarm calls for investigations after months of poisoning. but believe me, no one is falling for this regime propaganda anymore, which is why we call for an international investigation into the poisoning and for more sanctions against all those terrorising the people of iran. dear colleagues, no one will be able to silence the women of iran and i want us to stand with the girls, the women, the people of iran until they are all free. (the speaker used a slogan in a non-eu language)
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european parliament stands with the tunisian people. we stand with those who fight for democracy, who fight to prevent their country from going down this path towards dictatorship. because that is the way tunisia is at the moment. it's been on the move since president saied essentially abolished the constitution. there were questionable elections with 11% voter turnout, which shows what the tunisian people think of these elections, ladies and gentlemen! but it's getting more dramatic in tunisia. journalists can't do their jobs anymore. noureddine boutar, the head of the largest independent radio station, has been arrested. the judges who oppose the system are removed from office and, ladies and gentlemen, these are not signs of democracy, but signs of autocracy. we cannot accept that. we expect that constitutional order will be restored, that freedom of expression will be guaranteed, that people will be able to assemble, form associations, actively participate in civil society. we stand with these people and we fight for them here in the european parliament.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, colleagues, you’ve all been very clear, and i think we’re very much sharing a line here. it is very clear the hun sen regime has dismantled democracy in cambodia. the democratic opposition is in exile, if they’re lucky, or in prison. now, in the sham trial, kem sokha, the former opposition leader, has been sentenced to 27 years in house arrest, stripped of all political rights. the regime is not even trying to hide their intentions about manipulating the elections in july. kem sokha and other political prisoners must be released immediately and unconditionally, and the council must finally prepare to implement targeted sanctions against the autocratic leaders. the commission must make clear that the legitimacy of the cambodian government will depend on the legitimacy of these elections. if the independent electoral observers find evidence of unfair elections, it is more than overdue that the commission is finally fully withdrawing the epa preferences because the conflict of our time is autocracy versus democracy. we cannot forget this and we should not fool ourselves. the autocrats of the world are united in the fight against freedom and democracy, and that is why the eu must always, must always, always, always stand by those fighting for our democratic values.
the president received the council's position at first reading, including the reasons for adopting that position. the commission's views and comments were also received. the full title of this meeting will be published in the minutes. the three-month period for parliament to comment will therefore start tomorrow, 17 march 2023.
following the resignation of mr eric andrieu, and on a proposal from the committee on legal affairs, parliament shall, in accordance with its rules of procedure, declare its seat vacant with effect from 2 june 2023 and shall inform the national authorities concerned thereof.
the next item is the debate on the european citizens' initiative 'save bees and farmers! a bee-friendly agriculture for a healthy environment (2023/2550(rsp)).
i have to say, madam president, first of all, as mistress of this house, i'd like to ask you to correct mr. lebreton. he just used the term "green ayatollah". i mean, when we look at what is happening in iran, i just don't think that kind of language is appropriate in this house, and i think you really should say something about that as the lady of the house today. now, about our subject. bees are more than honey, they are our life support, and as social beings, they provide pollination, flowering fields and fields, fruit and, last but not least, our food. no bees means no agriculture and no food for us humans. it's that simple. unfortunately, with the death of bees, we are already losing two thirds of our apple crop. how much clearer does it have to get? pesticides are bee killers. they're damaging our environment. our supply cannot be secured by pesticides, that is a short-term fallacy. on the contrary, without pollinating insects, there is no food and no farmers. we're working on a reduction in pesticides. halving by 2035 must be the least we can achieve here. we have been given this task by the europeans.
i have noted the matter you have mentioned. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think the president has also mentioned this for discussion in the bureau, and we shall follow the same course.
i have to say, madam president, let's take a look at who or what the european citizens' initiative save bees and farmers alliance is. the alliance is backed by more than 140 internationally networked organisations and political lobby groups, including many with organic labels with a hard economic orientation and corresponding interests or extinction rebellion with a radical left-wing extremist orientation or the german environmental aid with an infamous past as a warning association or the ngo pan germany, whose pesticide database was circulated by the rapporteur of the sur. your foundation, mrs wiener, has listed some of the organisations of 'save bees and farmers' as partners and sponsors. or compact, an organic marketing online platform that was stripped of its charitable status because it focuses on political influence, not information. whoa, whoa, whoa. didn't we just say we'd be better at dealing with the lobbyist mess? and, without crop protection, the yield drops dramatically. the result is, among other things, expensive, soon scarce food. with emotional images, dead bees and supposedly evil farmers, signatures can always be generated. but they are not in the public's interest. in reality, consumers vote at the checkout with their wallet, and organic is just a shopkeeper. i would remind you that our task, ladies and gentlemen, is not to promote welfare but to ensure food security.
so, mr president, commissioner, we can vote in europe with the european citizens' initiative. the citizens' initiative is a special and necessary democratic instrument. in the netherlands, trust in politics is low. the government is responsible for a long series of scandals and for neglecting the real problems in our country, including the threat to biodiversity and the position of farmers and food security. this seventh successful european citizens' initiative is supported by one million europeans in 11 countries and calls for the preservation of bees, not forgetting farmers. it has my full support. it is a balanced initiative that concerns the well-being of bees, biodiversity, farmers and the health of all of us. this must be borne in mind from left to right. biodiversity is complex. it requires a careful approach and a thorough understanding. it will be a challenge for the commission to come up with an appropriate response. it's governing for the advanced in the public interest. long live the citizens' initiative!
the commission has already done so. with over a million signatures, citizens are calling for decisive action to stop the loss of pollinators. thank you. the eu commission also wants to tackle the causes of insect death. i'm good with it. bees and farmers save a promising headline at first glance. the second is to ban synthetic pesticides altogether. i'm not interested in alternatives. but farmers need alternatives to continue producing high-quality food in the future. the death of insects, ladies and gentlemen, concerns us all. think of urbanization, of bare gardens, of grazing land, of bright street lights, or even of the effects of weather. so we're looking at gardens, parks, or, more specifically, insect hotels. but the abandonment of land use means less yield and higher costs. we need solutions instead of bans, cooperation instead of confrontation. only by cultivating land will we be able to produce enough insects and pollinator food. flowering mixes such as the veitshöchheim hemp mixture or the pre-mix are well tested and suitable. this rich and perennial mix of wild plants recently won the european bee award. these are positive signs and examples. our farmers are not our enemies, they are our friends. agroecology is only going to work with them. that is why we are pulling together in the interests of our bees, but above all in the interests of our farmers. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question under the 'blue card' procedure.)
reply to a verbal message under the 'blue card' procedure. i think, mr president, that this is not something that can be done lightly. i come from bavaria, for example, where the beekeepers grow, especially the young beekeepers, where the bee colonies grow. so we have more support than ever because everybody knows we're all in the same boat. but i don't dare say that industrial agriculture is to blame. the question is: what is industrial agriculture? we agree that the use of pesticides must be reduced further. but with the plant, it's like with humans: when i'm sick, the doctor says, "you need medicine". and if we want to have a healthy harvest, healthy crops, then the plant needs medicine, in this case pesticides. so this is the basic condition for us to be able to harvest well in the future. in this sense, we can talk bilaterally. but your equation is too simple for me.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. sometimes i cannot explain what is happening here in the european parliament and in europe in general. if i went home or if i explained to the groups of visitors here in parliament that in europe hundreds of opposition politicians, journalists have been spied on with a software where everything could be listened to, that the deepest privacy has been invaded there, that it is known that these are facts, and if i explained then that we have a committee in the european parliament that is supposed to clarify this throughout europe and that has been working very intensively for a year, then people would say: yes, great, good that you are doing this, that you are going after this. if i were to tell you that not a single member state is really cooperating properly with this committee of inquiry and that the commission is looking the other way and not taking action, people would ask me: how is that going to work? why is this in europe? why can't you protect civil rights more consistently? why are the member states simply looking the other way and ignoring this? i can't explain it to anyone, and no one can understand it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. for years now, the civil rights, the fundamental freedoms of hundreds, thousands of citizens in the european union have been violated by spyware. journalists, lawyers, politicians, even us members of parliament in our work here, as well as civil servants of state institutions in the member states and, yes, even colleagues of yours in the commission, have been wiretapped. these are all serious interventions, and you'd think we'd all be working together to stop these interventions, these attacks on our basic rights and on our democratic institutions. instead, we've been walking into a wall of silence for the past six months. it is like a cartel of silence between the commission and the member states. so let me be very clear: when democracy is being destroyed - and this is happening through the use of spyware - no democratically legitimized institution can win, not parliament, not the governments of the member states, not even the commission. so we ask you once again to cooperate with us. if the member states continue to block, we expect very clear sanctions. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first, a quick recovery, because i just saw you walking to the desk on crutches. i refer to rule 32 (2) of the rules of procedure on the bureau's duty to provide information. is there a decision by the bureau to abolish german as the working language in parliament's internal and external communications? my concern is specifically about the work of the directorate-general for communication, which seems to have abandoned the use of german in the communication of plenary proceedings. this would have a significant impact on the largest communications market in the eu. german you know that is an official language in six member states. 130 million people speak german as their mother tongue or first foreign language. it is also an official language in luxembourg. i therefore ask you to ensure that german is retained as the working language in this house, especially in external communications.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. as wise king solomon of ancient israel noted in the bible, "the righteous one is caring for the soul of his domestic animal". back then, 3,000 years ago, it was easy. each man had his cow, his sheep, and his goat in the stable, and it was in the best interests of each farmer to care for the welfare of his animals. what mr rzońca said is very important. otherwise he would have had nothing to eat and nothing to sell. i too grew up on a farm, and as a small child i was occasionally given fresh milk directly from the cow's udder into my mouth. those were the days! today, all this is unthinkable, because farms are run like factories. the individual animal is now just a unit of account, and the eu bureaucracy makes it impossible to take care of the livestock. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say, madam president, the german chancellor, scholz, has in brussels, negotiated a lousy compromise for e-fuels in the eu's ban on internal combustion engines. the german car industry is no longer helped by this. it loses its export-hitting combustion engine and now competes with electric cars from china and the us. both are heavily subsidised, while the commission blocks eu subsidies. nor does it help most motorists who cannot afford an electric car. the german and european economies have so far benefited from cheap russian energy and export successes, especially overseas. the eu, under german-green deception, is making energy unaffordable and endangering our export economy and thus our livelihood. i would like to see the commission and the council agreeing on a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
i have to say, madam president, there is a causal relationship between poverty and wealth. there is also a link between war, price rises and increasing poverty in the european union. for a year now i have been hearing from the council and the commission only reports on how many weapons we have now sent to ukraine, how many sanctions have been decided and how many billions have been poured into the prolongation of the war - nothing about how this war is to end. i have heard a lot of words from the commission today about strengthening the competitiveness of european enterprises, but nothing about the social dislocation in the european union. i don't know if you haven't noticed, but poverty is growing, middle classes are eroding, people can't live on their wages anymore. and something must be done about it! they must do something to end this war and to ensure that there is social security for the workers. and i'll say it again, in case you haven't heard: more and more people and trade unions in the european union are resisting this. in france we have the best example of people fighting against an anti-social pension reform and being attacked by the police for it. on monday the union completely paralysed transport in the federal republic of germany and demanded compensation for inflation. ladies and gentlemen, commission, do something for the people of the eu! do something for social security and not just for war and the arms industry!
the next item is the debate on the report by dita charanzová, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on general product safety, amending regulation (eu) no 1025/2012 of the european parliament and of the council, and repealing council directive 87/357/eec and directive 2001/95/ec of the european parliament and of the council (com(2021)0346 - c9-0245/2021 - 2021/0170(cod)) (a9-0191/2022).
rapporteur. – mr president, mr vice-president, well, this law is our safety net and constitutes the general framework for ensuring the safety of all products circulating in the union's market, sold offline and online. the new benefits for consumers from these regulations are long and important. companies will have to make sure they have internal processes in place to make sure that they only produce or sell safe products, from smartphones to toys. just because something is cheap is no excuse. more requirements to report if anyone in the supply chain sees something dangerous, they are now ‘see something, say something’ requirements. companies will also have to keep records of who they buy from and to which other companies they sell to. this will mean we can trace dangerous products. no longer can a company say, yes, it is unsafe, but i don’t know where it went to. they must know. chemicals are the most reported problem with products, but it is not always the final producer who is the source of the problem. every product has to have a legal representative inside the european union, even if it is a product sold straight from china. this means there will be someone to hold responsible if something goes wrong. 50% of dangerous products come from china. today you just get a random address somewhere that is impossible to check, let alone find someone responsible there for what they make. now, every product must have on the label the name of the legal representative in the european union, their address and email address. moreover, you can sue them if they don’t solve the problem, and to make sure it works, consumers can sue as a group. we made sure that all accidents and reports of dangerous products must be checked and reported to the authorities. if someone reports something to a marketplace or trader, they have to report it. this will help governments spot bad products faster. this law makes it so online marketplaces must remove dangerous products and fast to this maximum, and it must be done. today, if a product is removed, it often just comes back. we can see this, especially with sales of electronics and toys. this cannot happen anymore. marketplaces must remove all sales for the same products and prevent any new sales to reappear. no matter the trader, no matter what name they call them, products have to remain removed. and if you bought something and the online shop or normal shop has your email, they will have to email you if something you bought is recalled. how many people check the recall websites every day? how many people know that these websites exist? no one. and now you will not have to do it. they will have to tell you directly. finally, a repair, a replacement, or your money back. companies have to give you a choice of at least two of them if you bought a recalled product. altogether, this regulation is a big win for consumers, a win for safety and a reason to feel free to shop anywhere in europe, starting before christmas next year.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i’m really happy to be here today for this debate on the general product safety regulation, because instead of commissioner reynders, i’m doing the honours and it is an important event. he can’t be here; he has other obligations this evening. our single market is only as strong as the trust that citizens have in the safety of the products that circulate within it. and i think it is high time that we upgrade our product safety rules because they’re 22 years old and a lot has happened since then and they were not ready, the present rules are not ready for the digital age where most of us are not just shopping in shops but also online. and i’m sure that certainly for many in this room, that’s an understatement given the time you have to spend working. so, now, also, thanks to the rapporteur and this parliament, we will have a new general product safety regulation that is in fact a new safety net for european consumers, and one that is solid and future-proof. and i really want to warmly thank the rapporteur and the imco committee for this achievement – extremely well done. let me highlight a few of the accomplishments. first, the introduction of the obligation to have a responsible person inside the eu who should care about the safety of your product and whom you can call, contact and, in the worst case, take to court if there is a problem. now, all of us will have that responsible person for all products in the single market, including those that aren’t under harmonised european rules. as said, we are very happy that the new rules also guarantee the safety of products sold online. it contains new obligations for online marketplaces to ensure product safety building up on the digital services act. it is very important to be cautious in the area of consumer safety. it means that if a business or a government is active in the market, it has to assess the risk and take any measure that is fit. it’s crucial for consumers and it’s fully proportionate in our view. if products are dangerous, truly dangerous, the new and stronger framework for recalling these products should avoid the danger that these products remain at the disposal of our citizens. i commend parliament in particular to include the possibility for consumers to seek collective redress in case of safety problems. together they stand stronger and this can make a big difference in ensuring that these safety rules are implemented on the ground. finally, we welcome that the final text provides for special protection of vulnerable consumers such as children and better access to information for people with disabilities. adopting new rules is one thing, but implementing, at home and in the public sphere, doesn’t mean much if it is not enforced. we need member states on board to do this. the commission will do its utmost to coordinate product safety activities at the level of member states, including with support from the single market programme. we believe that the new regulation is a major step forward to protect consumers against dangerous products, even when markets, technology and, in fact, the whole world is changing very fast. with this law, you will give all of us a strong safety net that you can be very proud of.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it was necessary to adapt the 2001 product safety directive to modernity - perhaps even postmodernity. consumers are now buying online, increasingly from third countries, and there are more and more new products, especially software-related products. that's what i had to address. so it's good that we get this product safety regulation and have the update. it is very good, above all, that we have a responsible person in the european union who can take responsibility and be held accountable when third-country products which have reached the european internal market via third-country markets and are harmful have entered the market here. so it's good that we've named online marketplaces. but we need more than just naming online marketplaces. we need concrete commitments from online marketplaces. they are the key gateway to harmful third country products in the internal market. the digital services act is a good basis and a good cross-cutting act. but that's not enough. this is not the final rule. we need more! i therefore ask the european commission to propose its own legislation on online market places so that we can provide the appropriate level of consumer safety. most importantly, the right to repair. it is good that we have now clarified in product safety that consumers have rights in the event of a recall after the expiry of the two-year warranty period. but these are still subject to the reservation of what manufacturers allow them to do. but consumers must be able to afford to pay for the repair. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and the right to repair is the next opportunity -- a socially secured right to repair and one that actually creates a true circular economy.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the vote tomorrow on general product safety is an important milestone for the single market and for european consumers. a good outcome for safe products in the european union has finally been achieved. this is in line with what we as parliament had already called for in november 2020 in the framework of the own-initiative report on product safety, which i was allowed to negotiate as rapporteur. so far, the safety requirements for a doll bed are stricter than for a child's bed. that's over now. the new product safety regulation will apply the same high safety standards to all products, whether or not they are subject to sector-specific legislation, whether or not they are purchased in-store or online, whether or not they are purchased from an eu or non-eu supplier, and whether or not they are connected and incorporate novel technologies such as ai. we have increased consumer protection without increasing the administrative burden on businesses. we have ensured fair conditions of competition in the internal market and have paid particular attention to smes. we have now made sure that every product offered on the european single market has a contact person in the eu. and we have put in place increased commitments for online marketplaces, which will improve product safety - especially because over 70% now also shop online. the rapex system is becoming a modern safety gate. we've made sure that product safety concerns can be communicated faster and that unsafe products can be identified faster and communicated better, and of course product recalls are finally reaching consumers, because today it's estimated that one-third of people continue to use unsafe products. ladies and gentlemen, every dangerous product on the european market is one too many. and that's why we acted.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. high product standards in the eu internal market this is the core of our committee on the internal market and consumer protection. we are working hard every day to achieve this, and for that i would like to thank rapporteur dita charanzová and all the shadow rapporteurs who have done a superb job on this dossier. high product standards people are actually benefiting from the eu single market, because it involves much, much more than just removing barriers for businesses. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of products is not compromised. just think of smoke detectors, for example: safe products actually save lives. a recent study showed that two-thirds of the products you can buy online fail safety standards. this is totally unacceptable. and the new product safety rules, they close those gaps, and they will better protect consumers online and offline. we finally have stricter standards that define what makes products safe and what doesn't. the precautionary principle remains firmly anchored. this was particularly important for my group. we want to make sure that online marketplaces are no longer the gateway for unsafe products. all consumers in the european union will benefit from these new rules.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. i have heard a lot of things in this debate: that this is a national debate, that there is no regulation, that there is no back and forth and that there are no arguments. the question we're discussing here tonight is this: how is a child? and what's best for a child? and the best thing for a child is to have parents who love and care for him. and those parents should have the security, and the child should have the security that those parents can take care of it. because what happens now to a child who may grow up with two lesbian parents, where now the other mother is no longer accepted as the mother? if something happens to the biological mother, for example, the other mother has no opportunity, no right, to take care of the child. i think that people are laughing now, it's unbelievable that people are laughing now at a question like that. because that really shows the absurdity of this debate. you're not really interested in the child. it's not about that child being safe, that the other parent can take care of it. you are concerned about your ideology because it cannot be in your sense - mr. president, i must say this now at the end - that this child lives in this family. that's what you care about. that's why you're laughing at this point, because it's not right for two same-sex parents to raise a child. and because you'd rather take away that child's rights than take care of it! that's what this is about! that's why they're getting so excited about this place! (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the far-right government in italy is now using sharp rhetoric to attack its favourite enemy: rainbow families and their children. these children are no longer allowed to be registered in italian cities. and supposedly to enforce the surrogacy ban. but what our colleagues on the right here and in italy ignore is that the vast majority of children born to surrogate mothers are born to heterosexual couples. so why is the lgbtq+ community being showered with hate? and it shows once again: the far-right government in italy is eroding the rights of its citizens and discriminating against all groups that do not fit into its authoritarian worldview. but this isn't italy. many italian mayors and archmayors - above all, beppe sala in milan - have been calling out this exclusionary policy. they are defending the rights of children and we in europe stand by them!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. germany pays over 40% of the eu budget on a net basis. but there are a lot of poor people in germany, especially poor pensioners. germany has one of the highest legal and effective retirement ages in the eu. but because germans work longer and longer hours than many others, they pay the highest payroll taxes in the world. in old age, they receive a lower pension as a percentage of their previous earnings than pensioners elsewhere. germany also has the lowest home ownership rate in the eu. that is why our pensioners are also at higher risk of poverty, because they pay rent on a small pension. germany has the worst governments in the world since merkel. they may please the eu, but they are destroying germany and europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. history is being made, it's moving forward! and today, we are making progress in ending discrimination. women are often told: 'well, you're imagining the discrimination. where does it say that a man makes more than a woman? prove it to me. and let's end that today, that you have to come into the witness box as a woman of different backgrounds. no, we're going to turn this around today. the company, on the other hand, has to prove how much men and women in their company earn. and no, the women didn't negotiate badly. it is not the commission's intention to make a distinction between the two. it's going well. what does europe do for me? we're closing the payroll today. we are doing this today for the women of the european union.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not the eu parliament is once again pitting everyone and everything against each other, in the spirit of 'divide and rule'. in order to be able to demand a gender-equitable salary, everyone should now know what their colleagues earn. thus, arrogance and arrogance on the one hand, envy, resentment and strife on the other, will determine the future climate of the workplace. if there are no male colleagues whose salaries can be adjusted, then imaginary male colleagues are manufactured and their salaries are adjusted to their imaginary salaries. if, despite intensive research, no actual discrimination is found, then the mere existence of a theoretical possibility of discrimination is sufficient to justify equality claims. your gender bias is so delusional that i have to ask myself seriously: who ties your shoes every morning?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. many have said it here: this is going to be a historic day. and this parliament has done a superb job. why would you do that? i think the few on the right who said, "oh god, this is just creating bureaucracy", they didn't understand at all the reality of life in which women are in their diversity. and that is why, ladies and gentlemen of europe, look at this debate, look at us watching it and that is why i was pleased to hear mrs rafalska say: we have countries where this works. we have less discrimination. for me, coming from a country where there has always been a lot of wage discrimination, that was just a hope. and it also shows that it can be done. and so it's good that we're lifting this veil, this veil, this secrecy, which is one reason why so many women have to go through such a difficult path to achieve equal pay. and this creates tools for employee representatives, for works councils, for trade unions, for those affected to take action. the veil is gone. but then there's the work of equal pay. and we can do that, too. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question by means of a 'blue card')
reply to a verbal message under the 'blue card' procedure. if you had listened to me, you wouldn't have asked that stupid question. i praised poland for this and said: for us it has always been a hope that there are countries where it goes and where it is shown that the economy does not go down, if there is, for example, equal pay for equal work and equal quality work. and i can say that the women in germany, in the trade unions, in the parties, in the women's organizations, are fighting for this, and they are happy that europe is finally giving them what they have fought for so long. and so for me it is a good day for women, for equality, but also a good day for europe.
in writing. with this pay transparency directive, this parliament is showing, the eu is showing, once again, how far they are from economic and social reality. in the present difficult economic situation, our enterprises, especially our small and mediumsized enterprises, are faced with new administrative tasks and additional costs. the directive unduly interferes with the different wage-setting mechanisms in the member states and undermines the autonomy of the wage-setting system guaranteed by the german constitution. the green negotiator is encouraging the play of women against men and employers against workers and hopes for a flood of lawsuits against employers. binding transparency rules place employment contracts and companies under general suspicion. wage formation as we know it today, influenced by supply and demand, is being replaced by a bureaucratic, planned economic monster. i reject this on behalf of the afd. we want to preserve the german social model and its well-functioning collective bargaining system. what workers and employers in germany need is continuing vocational training and skills upgrading, as well as a drastic reduction in the tax burden on labour. hungary is pursuing a sensible policy. a policy that creates financial freedom, eliminates guardianship and improves the quality of life of citizens. women under 30 who have children are exempt from income tax. yes to de-bureaucratization, the abolition of redundant laws, freedom of work for citizens, improvement of working conditions and further training of workers. no to a socialist planned economy!
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the rule of law is the basis of european cooperation, because only common rules will allow us to enforce the law and the civil rights of all europeans. and that is why it is right that we look at the rule of law in each member state in a neutral way. the accusations that we only deal with individual states, which are repeatedly made, are now exactly what the rule of law report shows: this is wrong, we are looking everywhere, and it is right that the commission has also developed this rule of law report with recommendations, which we also very much welcome. but just because pegasus, cyber, spyware have been mentioned, commissioner, it is not enough to just write this in the report. i would also like to see you take concrete action to put an end to these abuses. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and if you look at the voting list, the right wing here in parliament is basically taking everything out of this report - the recommendations, the neutral reports. they do not want a common rule of law in europe. the citizens must know that. the rule of law and common values are not defended by them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is thanks to the pressure of this parliament that at the end of last year 140 billion euros were frozen for poland and hungary for blatant violations of the rule of law, for disregarding fundamental values of eu citizens, for corruption on an industrial scale. this is a great success for this european parliament. but freezing funds is not an end in itself. we want to see reforms. it has been more than three months, and i have not yet seen any real reforms. and yet, unfortunately, commissioner reynders says that, for example, the judicial reform in poland is a step in the right direction. i have just been to hungary and poland. i spoke to civil society on the ground, to judges, to the opposition. and it's pretty clear that they're saying that the reforms that are on the table are not helping. some of the reforms make matters even worse. now the last half-functioning supreme court in poland is to be paralysed by a flood of disciplinary proceedings. independent television stations in poland are not getting their licences renewed. and i'm told by businessmen and businesswomen from hungary, from all kinds of european countries who have invested in hungary, that the mafia's methods have actually increased in the last few months. but i also hear from both countries that freezing funds is the absolutely right answer, that the european union is finally not going to stand by and watch the rule of law being attacked and democracy being undermined. dear commission, our promise must be: we will freeze the money until there are real reforms, until it can also be seen that something is done, until the end of corruption. and if the measures taken so far do not seem to be enough to bring about change, well, we have to freeze more funds until orbán and kaczyński understand: we do not give eu funds to autocrats, and for us, basic values, the rule of law is not negotiable!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. while hungary and poland continue to be criticised for alleged violations of the rule of law, germany's situation is being praised. may i remind you that my home country is governed by a chancellor who is deeply involved in the cum-ex scandal, who has been acting like a demented patient in hearings on this matter, and the prosecutor's office, the instructional prosecutor's office, is keeping its feet on the ground. or that our federal constitutional court has been making political judgments since harbarth's accession. the vaccine mandate alone was an unprecedented scientific denial, not to mention the climate judgment. the ideologization of justice is not limited to the supreme court. the administrative court even prevented the deportation of an unprosecuted afghan because of the threat of poverty. do the judges even realize the consequences of this? so why are poland and hungary being criticised and not the german judiciary? because the eu shares the ideology of the german judges. and this is all about ideology!
the next item on the agenda is the explanations of vote.
we are therefore at the end of the explanations of vote.
the minutes of today's and yesterday's sittings will be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next sitting. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolution adopted at today's sitting to the persons and bodies named in it.
the next meeting will be held in strasbourg from 17 to 20 april.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i have received an alternative proposal from the epp group, so i give the floor to christine schneider to present the proposal.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. on behalf of the epp group, i would like to change the proposed title of the ecr for the debate. the epp group is calling for the following titles: commission statement on the unjustified interference by the commission in the chosen nature policy in member states and the impact of the proposed nature restoration law on food and energy security. we in the epp group do not support individual action against individual member states. a one-sided focus on a particular member state, as in the case of the netherlands, is disproportionate and not very effective. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. and this is precisely what the commission is currently putting at risk with its proposals in the eu nature package, with the nature restoration act and the regulation on the sustainable use of plant protection products. we ask that the vote be by roll call.
so we will vote on the request as amended by the epp group. (parliament rejected the request)the agenda therefore remains unchanged. for wednesday, the epp group has requested that a debate under rule 144 on the rule of law in russia be added as the second debate with resolution under rule 144 in the evening. i give the floor to michael gahler to move the request on behalf of the epp group.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, yes, thank you very much, colleagues, after consultation also with the s&d and renew, i would like to add this debate entitled ‘repression in russia, in particular the cases of vladimir kara-murza and aleksei navalny’.
we will put the proposal to the vote.
there seems to be massive support, mr guetta. (parliament agreed to the request)the deadlines are: motions for resolutions – tuesday, 18 april at noon; amendments to motions for resolutions, and joint motions for resolutions – wednesday, 19 april at 13.00; and amendments to joint motions for resolutions – wednesday, 19 april at 14.00. the agenda is adopted. the order of business is thus established.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr christophe hansen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the making available on the union market and export from the union of certain raw materials and products associated with deforestation and forest degradation and repealing regulation (eu) no 995/2010 (com (2021) 0706 c90430/2021 2021/0366 (cod)) (a9-0219/2022).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. 10 million hectares -- that's the size of portugal, and that's the area that our global forests are shrinking by every year. more than 10 percent of these ash deserts are used to fill our shelves - without regard to the fauna and flora, without regard to the indigenous populations who have lived in perfect harmony with and in our forests for centuries. 1.2 million people in the eu - that's the number of fellow citizens, at least, who, together with together4forests, believe that we must stop being complicit in the destruction of our forests. this law is absolutely necessary, ladies and gentlemen, even if it will make life difficult for many people, from small farmers to processors to customs officials. why do i say that? because hopes that political change in the countries of origin will reverse deforestation are often dashed. in brazil, for example, despite a change of government, forest destruction was 14 percent higher in march 2023 than in the previous year. that's why i say necessity. this deforestation law now says, stop! the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, including the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of new vaccines, the new vaccines, the new vaccines, the new vaccines, the new vaccines, the new vaccines, the new vaccines, the new vaccines, the new vaccines, the new virus, the new virus, the new virus, the new virus, the new virus, the new virus, the new virus, the new virus, the new virus, the new virus, the new virus, the new virus, the new virus, the new virus, the new virus, the new virus, the new virus, the new, the, the, the new, the, the, the, the, the new, but the real work is only beginning now, and that is where the commission is needed. because tracing the products and geolocating the plots is a huge challenge. this is where the commission needs to help smallholders through forest partnerships to meet the requirements of this law. but european producers also need certainty - for example, that the meat can still be sold if some trees are cut down to build a cowshed. i am not going to go into detail. the vote on wednesday will mark a milestone in the fight against climate change and biodiversity loss. this law will also help to deepen trade relations with countries that share our ecological values and ambitions. my hope is that many trading nations will follow in our footsteps. our decision today will be a milestone for the future. the whole world is watching us today, and i personally would like to thank my shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation and especially the team of commissioner sinkevičius. i think we have an opportunity today to take a big step forward. we want other countries - as i said - for example the united states to follow this path. because only by setting a global trend will we really make a difference.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – mr president, dear colleagues, the world forests are at the brink of an abyss, and for years the eu was a major driver of imported deforestation. and this regulation on deforestation—free supply chains is a game changer. we are making sure that products like soy or beef placed on the eu single market will not anymore fuel disastrous deforestation elsewhere. and this is not only good for global biodiversity, but also for the european consumers who can be sure to buy deforestation—free products in the future. especially in brazil under former president bolsonaro, deforestation rates skyrocketed and this endangered the livelihood of so many indigenous people. this new law is benefiting not only biodiversity but also people and their rights. it is a law to reach our common global goals, like stopping climate change and biodiversity loss. but let me be clear, the regulation on deforestation—free supply chains cannot be an excuse for agreeing on a bad mercosur deal. we need additional robust safeguards for human rights and against deforestation instead of the currently proposed toothless instrument.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, good afternoon. first of all, i would like to thank the european parliament for all the work that you have put into the regulation that you will be adopting on wednesday. i want to particularly thank the rapporteur, mr hansen, the envi chair, mr canfin, and all the shadow rapporteurs for the very constructive and the very positive role that you have played throughout the legislative procedure. i’m particularly happy with this new regulation because we could also follow up to the ep’s legislative initiative resolution to halt and reverse global deforestation, for which ms burkhardt has prepared important ground and which to a large extent inspired the commission proposal. the outcome of the trilogues on 6 december is a law we can all be proud of. it is a pioneering regulation, and i am convinced it will make a decisive contribution to tackling global deforestation and forest degradation. that also makes it an important tool to help us reach the objectives of the kunming—montreal global biodiversity framework and the paris agreement on climate as well. the new rules will demonstrate that the eu is ready to take the lead in the global struggle against climate change and biodiversity loss. they send a powerful signal to other major economies, underlining the urgent need for strong legislative action against deforestation and showing how it can be achieved. the agreed text of the regulation reflects the core features of the commission proposal, such as tackling deforestation regardless of whether it is legal or illegal in the country of production, the due diligence statement to be submitted by operators, strict traceability requirements and the benchmarking system. the agreed text also includes many of the improvements requested by this house. i am thinking particularly of the inclusion of rubber and of palm oil derivatives in the scope of the higher level of inspections to be formed by member state authorities, more ambition on the definition of forest degradation and the greater emphasis on the links to human rights and to the role of indigenous peoples. wednesday’s vote is one more step along this long road. the timeline ahead is extremely challenging. we still need to put into place the infrastructure needed to implement and enforce this new regulation. we must ensure that it becomes a success on the ground, inspiring others to follow. i am counting on you to continue to spread the word about the urgent need to tackle deforestation and forest degradation, and i am very grateful to everyone here who has contributed and supported the efforts to stop deforestation. we are working against the clock as it is, and i want to make sure that you know that your calls for action were worth it and that continued support is critical.
the committee's opinion was drawn up in the light of the work done by the advisory committee on development. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. we are pioneers worldwide with the deforestation-free supply chain regulation. we guarantee european consumers that the cocoa, coffee, beef, soy, palm oil and wood that you can buy in the eu, raw or processed, do not come from illegally logged land. we are putting a stop to the deforestation which is unfortunately still going on. but we're also making a bet that the countries that produce these resources have robust forest protection laws. we are betting that even smaller european companies will be able to meet the new standards of due diligence. and we must hope that the eu commission will not make too many enemies when classifying countries of origin as high, medium and low risk countries, so that the products mentioned - and in the worst case not only these - will be diverted from the european market to other, less regulated markets. our full focus must now be on implementing the regulation in close dialogue with the countries concerned, the farmers and the companies concerned. at the same time, we should promote globally the guarantee of deforestation-free supply chains. given this mammoth task, the expansion of the scope of application after just one year seems to me to be relatively utopian. but we must make a start. i'm very happy that we're doing this in this election year, despite the pandemic. a heartfelt thank you to all involved!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. whether it was the coffee this morning at the station or the chocolate i ate on the train, so far as consumers in the eu are concerned, they cannot be sure whether or not their consumption has contributed to deforestation. because whether we like it or not, when we go shopping, we almost always pack a little piece of deforestation in our shopping cart. soya, palm oil, rubber, coffee, cocoa, wood and beef - all too often these products come from deforested areas, and there is no law to ban this practice - or better yet, there was. because it's over now. we as the eu are tackling our forest footprint. under the eu law against imported deforestation, companies will have to prove that no forests were destroyed or people were displaced for the cultivation and production of their product. otherwise, there will be no access to the european market. we're putting a stop to the deforestation business model. and this is not only good for forests, but also for consumers in europe. because until now, when you wanted to know about deforestation, you found no clarity, but a jungle of sustainability labels and many promises that didn't really provide clarity. without the pressure from civil society and the european parliament, we would not be voting on the european supply chain act against deforestation this week. and it also shows something about the political will in this house and also within the european institutions that we have gone from the parliamentary initiative to the regulation in three and a half years. this is where we printed and delivered. and in the negotiations we were able to improve the commission proposal. mrs kyriakides has put it better than i could have. we also cover forest damage. we are including the deforestation driver rubber in the regulation despite the massive headwind we had. we are strengthening the role of indigenous communities who live by, with and in forests by also banning products from land grabbing from the eu market. but the fight against deforestation is not yet won. the commission has already done so. the commission will decide over the next two years whether to extend the regulation to other important ecosystems, such as the cerrado savanna in brazil. it could also make more demands on banks that are helping to finance the destruction of forests. and we will keep up the pressure here in the european parliament, just as we have been asking for, for this enlargement to come. but first of all, i would like to thank the many people who have called for action by the eu, the commission for this courageous initiative and all the colleagues who have worked so well here, across all political groups and committees. thank you very much.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the commission is not the fit for 55 package goes straight to the heart of european climate policy and competitive industrial policy. europe is taking a historic and important step with the fit for 55 package, even though we greens would naturally have liked to see even more ambitious results. and the climate social fund is now to fight energy and mobility poverty in europe. it is intended to promote measures for more efficient buildings, low-emission mobility and support for low-income households and small businesses. we now have a climate/social fund from 2026 totalling around eur 86.7 billion. the bitter truth is that the european commission has asked for eur 144.4 billion and we in the economic committee have asked for 25% more. to be clear, this is not enough money to achieve a fair balance in europe. it's a drop in the bucket compared to what's needed. but the eu is now saying very clearly with the climate fund: the green deal has to be a social deal. women are disproportionately affected by energy and transport poverty, especially single mothers, single women, women with disabilities or older women living alone. and that's where we have to start. we must fight energy and mobility poverty in europe with determination. and that's just the beginning.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on transport and tourism. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i think it's good that we're taking the big step today on the green deal and voting on the main issues today. it is important that we strengthen emissions trading as a key market economy instrument in this green deal at this point, because that will ensure, ladies and gentlemen, that the co2 savings are made where they are most cost-effective. it is a good principle, ladies and gentlemen, that we should use the market mechanisms at this point. as rapporteur on the transport committee for the eec in air transport, i am also particularly proud that we have managed to keep the saf allowances on the file, because that will ensure that the market will take up alternative aviation fuels much faster, and that will ensure that it will be even faster that we will be carbon neutral with flying. but i also want to say, as a liberal democrat, that it is important that we do not lose sight of one thing in this package of legislation, namely that we need all the technological options if we want to achieve the climate goals. i think that the commission has a duty to take account of the fact that the european parliament has been given a very important role in the debate on the future of the community. all of this is what we need if we're going to meet the climate goals.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. a journalist recently asked me if the greens had discovered the market. no, we have always been in favour of the market, but above all we are in favour of climate protection, and that requires markets and bids. the market alone is not enough, my dear peter liese. the invisible hand of the market, it doesn't put solar panels on the roof and it doesn't renovate houses. it takes craftsmen and women to do that. and that requires clear rules. moses did not receive ten markets, but ten commandments. the market alone is also unfair. it needs a social backbone, and this climate social fund is unfortunately far too small for that. of course, co2 has to have a price. but revenues must be returned directly to the population, for example through a european climate fund. so climate action and justice go together. so there's still a lot of work to do. but tomorrow we celebrate! because emissions trading is a big step forward for climate protection. co2 has to cost as much as it breaks. and we're making pollution so expensive now that it's just not worth it. what does that mean? what does that mean? after germany's nuclear phase-out, a europe-wide phase-out of coal will follow in 2030. from 2040 onwards, there will be no new co2 pollution rights. and to all those who are complaining about germany's nuclear phase-out, but praising the ehs, i say: you have not understood! emissions trading is the very instrument that makes it clear that we have no more emissions despite nuclear phase-out. so we've made a huge step forward in climate action. coal companies and industry know that the polluting party is over. and for citizens, it means more climate protection, more freedom and more freedom for future generations. and that is a green success!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. two and a half years ago, as rapporteur for the mrv regulation on co2 emissions from international shipping, i presented the position of parliament in this house, and even then the european parliament voted by a large majority to include shipping in the emissions trading scheme. tomorrow is finally here! for the first time, the world's sixth largest greenhouse gas emitter, maritime shipping, is being included in climate action. of course not as quickly and not as completely as we greens would have liked. but it's a start. but now it's also about keeping up, because pricing alone is not going to decarbonize this sector. it needs clear rules on efficiency measures, and it needs climate-neutral fuels. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but there are still no guidelines for efficiency measures. i will continue to fight for it!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since we humans have been around, we've been trying to make ourselves independent of nature. because independence from nature is the foundation of our civilization. but the greens want us to go backwards in civilization and have electricity only when the wind blows and the sun shines. the greens are opposed to the production and consumption of energy, the basis of our civilization. green people are against mobility, without which our economy cannot exist. and the greens are turning against education and economic growth, which have made us richer, healthier and safer. in an interview in january, german green economy minister robert habeck was asked whether his green utopias were destroying prosperity and leading to mass unemployment. he defended himself with the following words: sure, you can fail, but, he, habeck, has no desire to be a minister in a government that no longer has big plans. so, take the risk and maybe you will succeed, and then we can all be proud of ourselves together. this is the politics of the hazardous door, that is, people who take uncalculated risks, relying on a well-meaning fate instead of their own skills or scientific experience. no one, no one outside europe will take those risks.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if i had been told 15 years ago that we would be getting the european minimum wage, i would have said: no way! i will never do that! if someone had told me 15 years ago, when the banking and financial crisis hit us, that we would be sitting here today, and instead of saving, we would be investing, we would be investing in social standards and we would be trying to help the poor in the european union, and not just with money, but also trying to get them out of poverty structurally, i would have said: never! fifteen years later, i can say, "hurrah, we did it!" of course there's air up there. it is not yet what we imagine as green, what is needed to help the single parent on the outskirts of bucharest or the nurse who travels in brittany with her car to visit patients, to help her out of mobility poverty or structural poverty. we'll do that today. today is a first step with the climate social fund. i thank all those who have taken part in this. it is a first step towards more and i will continue to work for this as a social politician.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in 1970, sweden's per capita income was almost 50 percent higher than denmark's. today sweden is poorer than denmark. the reason: almost a third of today's swedes are non-europeans, but only 10 percent of danes. a crucial difference, because each migrant from africa and the orient costs a western european welfare state an average of almost 700 000 euros over a lifetime, according to dutch and danish studies. in 1983, denmark had the most liberal immigration law in the eu. but then the country came to its senses: illegal immigrants were deported, citizenship laws were tightened, asylum benefits were cut, and family reunification was made more difficult. today, denmark has the best welfare state and one of the highest wage levels in the eu. sweden and denmark are just one example of the inverse relationship between migration and economic performance. to survive, we need danish conditions throughout europe!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. more than ever, eu citizens are expecting de-escalation rather than more wars. but a geopolitical storm is brewing in the so-called indo-pacific region. the danger of escalation to armed conflict between the united states and china is growing. the united states sees itself threatened by china in its hegemony, in its claim to it in the world. the asian market is becoming increasingly important. china is the second largest economy, expanding its claim to the world and controlling crucial supply chains. china's expansion means and diminishes the share of western corporations in the world market. that's what's bothering you, and that's what's bothering the united states. so you build narratives like china would escalate, and it would be autocracy versus democracy. ladies and gentlemen, how many autocrats are the eu's and the us's premium partners? when did that bother you, when they opened up the markets to you? the transatlanticists are not concerned with the people of taiwan, human rights or the preservation of democracy, but with their own supremacy. china has not changed its policy on taiwan. the european states agreed to the one-state policy one country, two systems when they wanted china to open up its markets. now china is too strong, it bothers them. and that's why the us is escalating and motivating the elites in taiwan to go for a complete break with china. but you know that means we're very close to war. don't get me wrong: i criticize china for its imperialist claims in the world, just as i criticize the us and the eu for it. but you are responding in a significant way to mr macron, who has said nothing new, and some thought he had lost the claim to be a leader in the eu with this interview. i beg you . for me, mr macron was never a leader. he's got french workers beaten up. he's beating her up for some anti-social pension reform. but if he says we should not risk war while the united states is in the lurch, then he is right. do you really want a war? the citizens of the eu do not want a third world war.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. china restricts freedom and human rights, china is increasing its cooperation with the authoritarian regimes in russia and iran a worrying development in view of russia's war in ukraine and the international order. who, please, who can believe that china's actions can be changed by an economic policy or a political finger-pointing? the eu must show a united flag. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. we must, together with our transatlantic allies, send a clear signal to beijing that an attack on taiwan would be costly. our message is clear: those who fan the flames of peace are setting off a political conflagration in which there can be no winners. at the same time, we must strengthen our position as a union, united and united, economically and geopolitically. we must assert our interests where necessary by means of tough economic and political restraints. demonstrate common strength, build partnerships and ensure sovereignty for example, by working with reliable partners to implement issues of raw material supply for the common benefit. this must be the triad of europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we do not need anti-china hysteria or naivety in europe. neither is appropriate. china is an important trading partner for europe. we need to work together on climate change and green industries for the future. china is the world's largest emitter of greenhouse gases, and we can't ignore that. but europe and china are also clearly not like-minded partners see the forced labor of uyghurs in xinjiang. the transatlantic cooperation is all the more important, and disengaging from china is not an option. but europe must reduce economic and political risks and become more independent. but above all we must strengthen europe's economy from within. we are now implementing this in the eu with the chip act, the net zero industry act and the critical raw materials act. but that does not mean that we must now throw european values overboard under the pressure of the supposed economic interconnection between europe and china. competitiveness with the highest environmental and social standards, that must clearly be the approach in europe. we need a common european strategy in the eu for a china which declares itself a world power in 2049. and the current status of taiwan cannot be changed unilaterally, let alone militarily. and we will look closely at critical sectors, sharpen our trade tools, and examine whether investments and exports are in line with europe's security and climate interests. and we will not forget the dialogue with china today.
mr president, mr borrell, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. while we are focusing on finding a common strategy on how to deal and work with china, one of the eu's strongest representatives - at least in the view of most of us in this house - is throwing sand in the wind by calling the eu a vassal of the us. macron also rebukes the eu for meddling too much in china's foreign policy and the conflict over taiwan. and, mr weber, not only the afd, but also mr michel, the president of the council, and many others have supported the french president. your bashing of the wrong side is short-handed. as solomon said, "it is easy to condemn, but it is far better to understand". colleagues, what do we learn from the events of the past week? if we think we can publicly criticize china and dictate what it has to do, then china is showing us the red card or the door to exit. the result is zero. macron, on the other hand, is greeted on a red carpet and with a military parade and comes back with a lot of signed contracts. mrs von der leyen: there is no red carpet, no military parade, no press conference with xi. this is the political reality of eu-china relations. my dear colleagues, let's be honest. china sees us as an extension of the us, and until the eu member states emancipated themselves, this assessment will not change. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. that, ladies and gentlemen, is not what any of us want.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i'm a hamburger girl. i'm not a hamburger girl. our beautiful port just became the latest symbol of our dependence on china. a container terminal with chinese influence doesn't sound relevant until you put the pieces of the puzzle together. then you see rotterdam, you see piraeus, you see 14 european ports. if we put the pieces of the eu-china puzzle together, we see systemic competition in all policy areas. we are at the beginning of an era of artificial intelligence with so many opportunities for our society. at the same time, the chinese surveillance state must also serve as a reminder of where our journey must not go. we cannot be dependent on technologies made in china. because that addiction is a specialty of china, we have seen in recent years. if we want autocracies to re-establish the rule of the stronger, then our offer must be more free trade with more partners, more cooperation on equal terms. the european union was founded to safeguard peace, freedom and democracy. we must continue to promote these values in an alliance of democracies, an alliance that takes joint responsibility for these values and stands up against the autocracies of the world.
madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, i have heard a lot of calls not only in this house, but also at home in germany, that we should not go forward with the ramp—up of renewable energy while we don’t have enough storage for two weeks of no wind and no sun. the first problem we will run into when ramping up renewable energy is not the famous dunkelflaute of those two weeks, but the first challenge will be how to sensibly use the renewable energy which is oversupplying at times of little demand. there we have a plethora of possibilities already today, with the simplest one being a simple heating rod inside your warm water boiler and the more sophisticated ones being energy storage as electricity or as heat. i agree very much with the colleagues that say we need a common european framework for that so that we have the possibility to trade also storage units over borders in the same way that we are doing with electricity today. but please don’t let yourselves be fooled that we have to wait for sufficient storage units – which are already coming online, by the way – in order to have grid balancing, in order to wait for more renewable energy in germany and in europe overall. we can do it already today and we need only a regulatory framework.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. we have to wait as the european parliament until something happens that this is on the agenda, that people are cheated of their wages, that they have to fear for their personal safety, that they have no health insurance coverage, for example, as you will find out here. i had the opportunity to meet with agnes jongerius, with vera tax yesterday, these brave men who are in gräfenhausen. i really want to convey their greetings here, but above all their concerns and also their hopes that they have come here to work under difficult conditions, but with confidence in europe, that it does what nicolas schmit said: it promises that it will not discriminate, but that everyone who works here has decent working conditions, does not have to worry about their safety and is paid. so it's really important that we don't just look at that -- it's been said. i really thank the people who live there, who show that we do not make a difference from which country someone comes from europe or whether he comes from outside, but that they say: these men and also the women who work there, who make sure that we can even live our lives, that we get the products we have, that work can take place. and then we fail to ensure truly decent working conditions. mr radtke also mentioned that we have been working through a mobility package with many committed colleagues. but what good is the best legislation if it is not properly implemented at national level, if the commission does not play a stronger role as guardian of the treaties, if there are not sufficient controls and also european approaches to ensure this? so we really have to look at this as the tip of the iceberg, and it's not just the transport sector where we're seeing this. we have other sectors where we have similar problems, but we just don't stop there like we are doing now. i also thank the media for taking up this matter, for making it clear that we cannot just put the spotlight on it and then go back to work, but that we must send the message from here to those truck drivers in gräfenhausen and to all the millions of other workers in this european union: the council will now take a closer look. the commission will also look more closely at the employment contracts of these people. we have to make sure - and we can do this together as co-legislators - that this is not just a piece of normalcy in europe, but that we really make sure - especially when i look at georgia, a country that also has such high hopes for the eu, and a lot of the drivers come from there or from uzbekistan - equal pay for equal work in the same place. and we cannot tolerate slave labor, as this seems to be the case.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. i have to say, mrs rafalska, that i was wondering what the polish government is doing to prevent such companies from acting as freight forwarders. and that is a serious question. a gang of thugs drive an armored car to a rest stop with the aim of threatening truck drivers. and the police in germany must intervene. what sounds like a bad crime story actually happened in germany, in the middle of the eu. and the reason is that the workers are on strike because they haven't received their wages for months. and the employer threatens to deport you. in keeping with the crime script, the owner of the company is a welcome guest on polish television. if you ask me, an employer like that doesn't belong on tv, but behind bars. unfortunately, this is not just about one bad entrepreneur, but it has a system. the real problem is not just the small fish, but also the sharks, and the shark tank is the eu's own creation of the eu single market. the transport of goods and commodities became increasingly important, all the roads were paved for it, but people and labour rights were left behind. the scandal in germany involves large companies such as ikea, siemens and dhl as the clients. their lucrative business model of competing for the lowest price is basically the same: outsourcing, sub- and sub-sub-contracting, wage dumping and brutal exploitation. all for the best possible profit. this is not acceptable, ladies and gentlemen. i would like to say that i am very much in solidarity with the workers who are standing in the way of this, and i have the greatest respect for them, whether in gräfenhausen, paris or madrid - there have been strikes there too. they want to get paid, they want to strike until they get paid. and that not only requires our solidarity, but we must act. we need to close loopholes. and we really need to tighten up the controls on the supply chain. on saturday i spoke with professor dr. gerhard trabert on the phone. this is the doctor of the poor from germany. he also told me about the poor health of the workers in gräfenhausen. we have to do something here too, commissioner. it's not just the mental strain. teeth had to be pulled. the health of workers is very, very bad, and that's why we need more mobile medical practices and also more fair mobility.
in writing. the uprising of some truck drivers from georgia and uzbekistan in germany is not a surprise to me. the transport of goods by lorry has been a slave-making machine in europe for many years. a study in september 2022 entitled 'modern slavery and working conditions in the european truck industry' demonstrated that belarusian and ukrainian truck drivers work exclusively in western europe and not in the country of establishment of their employer (lithuania or poland). some 35% of these truck drivers said that their employer had provided them with false documents. half of them hadn't received a paycheck. these truck drivers are slaves. there is a targeted strategy by various eastern european logistics companies or forwarding companies to reduce labour costs in order to offer transport in western europe much cheaper. by exploiting drivers, they have taken the lead in the eu transport market. this social dumping is hitting the german smes hard, i.e. the companies that follow the rules and still offer decent jobs. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. freight forwarders are also trying to evade controls by increasingly clever methods. the commission has also proposed that the rules be effectively controlled and sanctioned in order to combat social dumping, and that a ceiling be set on the number of truck drivers from third countries, for example, at a maximum of 5%.
the minutes of yesterday's sitting and the texts adopted are available. is there any objection to the minutes? that's not the case. the minutes are approved.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the adoption of the proposals for the cyber package (2023/2651 ((rsp)).
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is question time with questions to the commission (rule 137 of the rules of procedure). i welcome commissioner gabriel to this question time. the theme of this question time is 'results of the european year of youth'. i must give you some information beforehand, which has already been given to the groups. the question time will last about 90 minutes, and the speaking time will be one minute for a question and two minutes for an answer. however, following the discussions in the parliament's working party on reform, a new format for question time is now being tested. in order to allow more colleagues to speak, supplementary questions of 30 seconds may only be asked during the first round of speakers. after that, it's just one question. it also remains that any additional question in this first round must be directly related to the main question and must not include a new question. so if you have a question, i would ask you - and you may have already done so - to register your request now by using the spontaneous wording feature of your voting device after you insert your voting card. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
madam president, in 2022, the european year of youth has given rise to a series of initiatives and events in which we have participated by inviting young people from our member state, and especially from the region of erlangen-nuremberg, and also from belgium. and we've written many articles about it. all these young people want to be involved in decision-making, but they also want to know what opportunities are available to them. so i'm giving you their questions, especially in the area of the housing crisis. what policies have been developed to limit particularly the homelessness of young people in general and of young migrants in the european union in particular, given that in most cases they have access only to unpaid traineeships? and do young people who do not have european citizenship but live among us have the opportunity to access european projects aimed at young people?
i am going back to erasmus+. do young people who live here but do not have european citizenship have access to erasmus+? do they have the opportunity to participate in this program? that's a question i've been asked everywhere. i know that this has been extended to african countries and i also said this in kenya two weeks ago. but those of us here in the european union are the problem. many of them do not have eu nationality. do they have access to erasmus+? because someone told me he was rejected. that's why i'd like to know what it's really like.
it was not a question, so i think we should continue with the questions and proceed with the next speaker.
mr president, thank you very much for giving me the speaking time. i have a very quick question regarding the fact that, obviously, the closer you get to death, the more you decide about the future, which is just a fact due to the demographics that we are currently facing. so i was wondering, in regards to more hard power for youth, would you support a voting age of 16, as we’ve also asked for in the electoral law act from the european parliament? and what do you generally think in terms of allowing younger people to participate, not only in elections but also when it comes to standing as candidates for these elections?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you know, when cristiano ronaldo scores a goal, he makes his famous goal celebration: "shuuu!" i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. because the bottom line is, we've missed so much, so much is missing. i am always sorry that you have to say that i cannot say anything because the commissioner responsible is not here. we have a subject here which is simply relevant in all areas and which is simply too often left unanswered. the european year of youth was not just last year, it is every year, and we must take it reasonably seriously. so my question is: what are we really doing to involve young people in europe in the political decision-making process? election age 16 was mentioned. we have it as a voting record. we have the question on the european year of youth and the european conference on the future on the youth check. we have the question of how we can make a standing committee for young people. all this is not being addressed. we need not only a voice but also the participation of young people, because they are deciding the future of this continent. so, commissioner, what steps can we expect from you?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the budgetary discussions this year will be held under the theme 'and every year the groundhog salutes'. while eu commission president ursula von der leyen and any number of heads of state and government never tire of stressing the great challenges facing the european union, they keep on being petty about the budget. the tasks are getting bigger and our budget is getting smaller. the fact is that the eu cannot fight the climate crisis with this budget. the eu will not be able to formulate its own foreign and security policy with this budget. this budget will not overcome the social divide. only interest and inflation will eat away at the programmes. important programmes such as erasmus, the horizon research programme and the life nature conservation programme are facing the threat of being cut. instead of budget cuts, we need an eu budget for people and the climate. climate programmes need to be increased, not cut. we need to compensate for inflation for social programmes and the erasmus programme. the inflation threatens to make erasmus a programme for students from high-income countries in the eu. we want all young people to be able to participate in the erasmus programme, regardless of their income or place of residence. the eu budget should improve people's lives in concrete ways, not in symbolic ways. we therefore strongly criticise the fact that manfred weber, leader of the epp group, is in alliance with far-right and nationalist parties and is calling for the funding of border fences from the eu budget. border fences are ineffective symbols. they fake a lockdown and create new problems. instead of funding fences, we should be doing more to help communities to welcome people. and through the eu's neighbourhood policy, we should be able to empower other countries to give people a better perspective. it is precisely for this policy that the greens, the social democrats, the liberals and the left and some conservatives had a majority in the committee on budgets. now is the time to acknowledge the flag in plenary. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not germany pays €37 billion gross and over €26 billion net to the eu each year. this means that germany pays net almost half of the total eu budget and each german pays €444 in gross eu contribution per year. in addition, germany's contribution to the eu's reconstruction fund is over 200 billion euros from 2021 to 2026, which is 33.3 billion euros per year or another 397 euros per person per year. in total, each german pays over 840 euros a year to the eu. in addition, there are the unlimited, unsecured and uncollectible 1.2 trillion target2 loans of the bundesbank to the ecb system, for which every german is currently liable with around 14 300 euros, and secondly the 1.5 trillion euros of losses of our savers' assets as a result of the ecb's monetary and inflationary policy. what do the germans get for letting themselves be consumed by the eu's false light like a moth to the flame? the highest energy prices in the world, mass migration costing us another 100 billion euros a year, insects and worms in food, a green deal designed to de-industrialise us like the morgenthau plan, and a foreign policy that could soon plunge us into a european war.
the commission has already done so. it is, of course, intolerable that people are drowning in the mediterranean. i would like to say again that it is the duty of the state to save people from the sea. i call on the member states and the council to finally put a national sea rescue mission back on track. the reason we are discussing this at this point is that italy has declared a state of emergency because of the arrival of 30 000 refugees, ladies and gentlemen. in poland there are one million ukrainian refugees, in germany there are one million ukrainian refugees. i think we should put this in context, ladies and gentlemen. there's no reason to declare an emergency, it's about us doing a better job. we in parliament do the work on migration policy. we have just decided in the committee on the internal affairs to give the negotiating mandates for the migration pact, ladies and gentlemen! it can go on, because we have a task, of course, to deliver, to actually make regulation better in the european union. we shall now proceed, ladies and gentlemen. i hope that the member states will soon be ready to give us a negotiating mandate so that we can enter into these negotiations. i think it is a matter of keeping our heads cool, of doing a proper job, ladies and gentlemen, which is what people expect of us. and of course we need solidarity with the member states where the refugees first arrive, but we also need humanity and the rule of law in this matter. if we follow it, we will produce good results.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. so, no doubt, it would be good if we improved the laws that we have, but no law in the world will free us from the fact that in the end, solidarity between member states, solidarity with refugees, is not just something we decide, but something we have to live by. we don't really need new laws to make things better right now. in 2014, there were 315 kilometers of fencing along the external borders. now, in 2023, there are 2,048 kilometers, more than six times that number of kilometers of fence on the external borders. and yet the number of refugees is rising again, and yet we have 604 dead in the mediterranean this year. that's about as many openings as we have right now. i think we have to realize that with the walls on the external borders, they are also building a wall of lies, a wall of lies that pretends that sealing is a solution. but closure is not the answer, because no fence in the world will ensure that there are fewer refugees at the end. the truth we are witnessing is that the eu's asylum policy is characterized by the fact that everything is subordinated to the goal of fewer refugees arriving in the end. human rights are subordinated to this goal, human dignity is subordinated to this goal, the rule of law and, yes, the honesty of how it all happens is subordinated to this goal. for example, less than 10 percent of people are being rescued by maritime rescue organizations right now, and yet there are some people here who act as if maritime rescue is to blame for people dying in the mediterranean. the opposite is true. we need rescue at sea and if we are honest, mr hahn, it is not possible that in 2012 the european court of human rights will condemn us to stop returning people to libya and then we will think very cleverly: yes, we will not do it ourselves, but we will give a lot of money to the libyans, pretend to be rescue at sea and spend zero euros on civil rescue at sea in the mediterranean. if on the one hand there is zero euro for real rescue at sea and on the other hand there is money for people who are themselves involved in smuggling activities, who therefore have to go to court, but still get our tax money, then something is very wrong. i'm all for renegotiating the laws, but we should really clarify our relationship to the rule of law first. we can change that without having new rules.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fact that we are debating the situation in the mediterranean for the tenth time is a testimony to the denial of reality and the lack of self-reflection that most people here display. migrants still die on a regular basis during the dangerous crossing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration, and it is not the commission's intention to do so. let's ban the so-called private rescuers, aka tugboats. let us at last return the illegal immigrants to their place of origin and also escort them safely home. the german municipalities in particular are now completely overburdened and the crime statistics show a renewed increase in violence by asylum seekers. a restrictive migration policy saves lives at home, in europe and in the mediterranean. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to wake up from your wet dreams.
blue-card speech. – mr benifei, i was just wondering how you see the reactions and the effects of the state of emergency that was declared in italy and on the overall debate on migration within the country.
mr president, i have to say, i’m still amazed by this debate because it should be about saving lives, but instead we repeat our points about the asylum system. i think what’s clear is that we currently let people die in the mediterranean. we let them die by ordering container ships and fisher boats to stand by and wait, we let them die by criminalising and jailing those who want to pull them out of the water, we let them die by systematically funding libyan coast guards that bring them back to their man-made hells, where they face exploitation, rape and murder. colleagues, it has been said, but we have to say it again: we need state-funded, state-led search and rescue missions. we need a truly european system of solidarity, where we also allow for disembarkation across europe. and we need to stop scandalising migration because this actually just drives the points for the far right as we can see now. the real solution is to find a european common asylum system, because otherwise we will delegitimise the european union as a whole and we need to stand up to our values.
mr president, the situation in the mediterranean is reaching a critical stage and is on the verge of a human tragedy. if we do not act, given the unprecedented rate of shipwrecks at sea, we cannot allow the mediterranean to become a graveyard for all refugees. people in distress have the right to be saved. this is a moral obligation for all the member states of the european union, and the sanctity of life must take precedence over all other considerations. it is therefore up to the member states, in the context of the new pact on migration and asylum, to put in place a coherent policy based on the values we advocate and not to let thousands of people perish at sea. the arrests, the detention centres and all kinds of deviations in italy are contrary to our policy, which is intended to be humanistic. we cannot support such a policy. the pact on immigration and asylum devotes a large part to the protection of the frontiers of the european area. the european union must provide a solution, a common response that shows our solidarity with those we welcome with respect for their dignity. there is an urgent need for a humanitarian policy. we're saving lives!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear colleagues, here we are 20 years after the end of the brutal regime of saddam hussein, who used mustard gas against its kurdish citizens and violently oppressed political dissent. here we are 20 years after the start of a us-led invasion that paved the way for war crimes, the torture and humiliation of iraqi prisoners, and a brutal civil war. here we are 10 years after the withdrawal of the us troops, which led to the rise of the islamic state and unbelievable brutality. and more than 3 years after young iraqis took to the streets with slogans like ‘we are all iraqis’, while hundreds of them have been killed by iraqi security forces and iran-backed militias. and once more, impunity prevails. yet, how is the country supposed to heal if such crimes go unpunished, when all these stories of suffering are never told or heard? so, since the protest movements emerged in autumn 2019, i have visited iraq several times, listening to women activists in baghdad, yazidis families in dohuk, musicians in mosul, or human rights activists in erbil, and many are indeed disappointed and angry that such a peaceful movement calling for reform was brutally crushed by the authorities. but the spirit of the movement lives on with young people striving for a new iraq that overcomes religious and ethnic divisions and fights the notorious corruption, depriving a whole generation of its resources and future. and the eu should put a much stronger emphasis on supporting these civil society actors, especially the young generation in iraq, by supporting their training, giving them new opportunities to build a better homeland and to address the challenges the climate crisis poses on their country. last year, i was involved in the organisation of the mosul music festival that was partly funded by the eu and unesco in the city. mosul is the former capital of isis, and there we saw women and men playing traditional iraqi music together with bands from europe. and there is maybe no better way to chase away the ghosts of terrorism, war and destruction than music, dance and exchange.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, rapporteur, dear colleagues, we as greens support the creation of an eu rapid deployment capacity and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his very good report. it is crucial that member states now move forward with urgency and with ambition to make the capacity operational by 2025 – although 2024 would even be better – to establish it as a permanent multinational unit to finally provide enough funding and staff to the mpcc as promised many years ago, and adequate resources to the european peace facility to imburse all operative costs. those are important technical details, but let us take a step back. why are we discussing the rapid deployment capacity today? the first reason: because its predecessor, the eu battlegroups, have never been deployed since their creation 20 years ago. ‘why?’ you may ask. well, mainly because eu member states never had the political will to deploy forces jointly under one european umbrella and an initiative report clearly will not change that. so i call on member states to finally back up their words with actions. and the second reason being the withdrawal of us troops from afghanistan, how it exposed the eu as an onlooker in a crisis, and how we had to leave our afghan partners behind in catastrophic circumstances. so i call on this parliament and the council to show now equal determination to develop further tools to better protect our local partners and ever create them when needed. those currently in hiding and living in constant fear of being killed in afghanistan, as well as those worrying about their future in mali today. this, dear colleagues, is the other crucial part of our responsibility. and without the support of local partners, no eu action, no matter how rapidly deployed, will ever have a positive political impact on the ground.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. today we are discussing the parliament's report on the eu rapid reaction force, a small eu special forces force of at least 5000 men. the commission is also proposing to set up a european union-wide network of specialised agencies to monitor the implementation of the eu's external action. this eu army should have proactive intelligence and surveillance services, transport and air transport capabilities, space communications, cyber defence capabilities and much more. nothing you're asking for is new. even after the disaster that the eu and nato countries inflicted on afghanistan with 20 years of bombing and the subsequent disastrous withdrawal, you claimed that such a special operations force was needed. well, after russia invaded ukraine, the demand is getting louder. one wonders, could such a task force ever end such a war? the main thing is weapons, the main thing is troops seems to be the current motto in this house and at eu level. the rapid reaction force is just another military instrument for promoting eu interests and exerting political influence, as we have seen in the eu's mali operation and its sahel strategy - not to mention the lack of transparency and democratic control in all eu instruments. the financing should be provided through the instrument known as the peace facility. you're asking for more money. watch your backs! the name peace facility is misleading. peace has nothing to do with the instrument. you're already funding arms deliveries to ukraine and prolonging the war. the people of this world are doing all this with sacrifice and with their lives. i say we don't need this task force. the eu should be a force for diplomacy.
madam president, in 2008, we increased the reductions in defence expenditure due to the international financial crisis. we also reduced our commitment to common european defence efforts. in 2008, putin dismembered georgia. in 2014, he incorporated crimea into russia while we kept avoiding our defence obligations. after the shock of the full-scale russian invasion in ukraine, we started moving in the right direction, but not at the required speed, in my view. we are discussing a rapid deployment capacity and we should have already created a functional rapid deployment force. by counting the cost of putin’s aggression against ukraine for the european economy, we also count the cost of our great illusion that by avoiding the necessary increase in defence expenditure, we can save money in a dangerous geopolitical environment.
i have to say, madam president, it took a year before the golden promises of the yes parties and the violent campaigns of intimidation which convinced the danes to abolish our defence reserves led to a complete breakdown of the european parliament. because now it's clear what you want. the future of eu defence cooperation must be a standing force, a 5,000-strong peacekeeping force is parliament's wish. a permanent military headquarters in brussels and, in general, a desire for the member states not to use their veto power in defence matters. yes, there is indeed a desire in this house to move completely to majority decisions in the field of foreign and security policy, and this in a very difficult security situation. a situation in which most people in this house completely misunderstood and misread the aggressive russia. i was sitting here when they were fighting to complete the nord stream 2 pipeline so we can get more russian gas into the eu. what a mistake that turned out to be. what a mistake it proved to be to make ourselves more dependent on russian energy by shutting down large parts of the european nuclear power sector. in general, we have made mistakes and mistakes in the european parliament on security policy, but the answer is: give us more power. this time in the defense sector. and the answer from the danish people's party and the id group is a nice "no thank you". we believe that nation states are better placed to anchor security policy, especially after macron's highly damaging visit to china. a visit in which one of the eu's largest member states, france, chooses to leave the us alliance and place itself between china and the us. well, in my optics, there's no doubt. the aggressors are russia and china. this is not america. let's focus on nato, on our security anchored there. and let us drop the idea that this union should have anything to do with security and foreign policy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used effectively. it is not possible that there is a lack of routines because there are no common and realistic exercises. it is not possible that joint forces will never be used because some european member states are exercising their right of veto. this sad reality of eu battlegroups must be a thing of the past. we have a duty to the soldiers, their families and the people of europe. we cannot allow, in the current geopolitical situation, common military structures - eu battlegroups - to exist but not to be available for defence or deployment. we need the european rapid reaction force now, and i firmly believe that the 5000 provided for this purpose can only be the beginning. we must build this up gradually to meet our responsibilities.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not ihor, 16, from kherson, wanted to go on holiday for the first time in his life, so his mother accepted the offer of the russian occupiers and sent him to anapa. but when kherson was freed, the boy was trapped, just like thousands of other children in that camp. after weeks, his mother was not able to see him until he was told that he was being adopted. when i hear the russian federation's children's rights commissioner speak with such a naturalness about the adoption and russification of ukrainian children, whether de facto or real, it shows how important the international criminal court's arrest warrant is. it's not just a sign, it's an instrument. this is an instrument against impunity, but also against the absolute lack of awareness of wrongdoing in the russian federation awareness of wrongdoing regarding the abduction and forced adoption of ukrainian children, because this remains a crime. and according to article 2 of the genocide convention, this is also possibly part of a genocide against the ukrainian people. you have to say it. the russian authorities and the russian people need to hear this too. because this attack, this perverse attack on ukraine, is continuing. first, these actions have made us speechless. but the longer that goes on, the more we become dull. and that can't happen. this warrant is a reminder to us all. crime is crime, criminals are criminals, no one should go unpunished. that is why this parliament will always support the investigation of criminal offences and the prosecution of those responsible. inhumanity and crime must not be normalized.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. genocide, by definition, is the forcible transfer of children from one group to another. russia has expelled more than half of the ukrainian children and killed many. those who could escape the missiles, but failed to escape putin's killers, were taken hostage and forcibly deported to russia. some were released for forced adoption as if they were trophies and not human beings. others were put into re-education camps, in the russian tradition of genocide. the children who survived putin's new children's gulags reveal the full extent of russia's inhumanity. they were brainwashed, psychologically abused, and beaten on a regular basis. and yet these children were almost lucky, because the cruelty of the russian soldiers is limitless. the disgusting video confession of a wagner fighter is proof of that. i quote: she was screaming, a little girl. i don't know if she was five or six years old, he admits, but i shot her. a controlled shot to the head. we in the eu have suppressed the possibility of such inhumanity. putin and his killers will pay a heavy price.
i have to say, madam president, mr bettel, your speech was very well received. one year before the european elections - i mean, some people are already getting the populism booster. others talk about self-reflection and don't even know how to spell it. they started with a self-reflection, the lessons we learned from covid: first, close borders, then, together, get vaccines -- that's the way. but it also means that we need more expertise for future pandemics to fight them across borders. i also liked that you once again argued that we should not be afraid of the citizens. we had the future conference. i do not think that anyone in this chamber is afraid of the proposals put forward by the citizens. on the contrary, we are in the process of implementing them. but i would like to say - and i think it is necessary - that the council should be even more fearful of the proposals put forward by the citizens. we also need a convention to strengthen the heart chamber of democracy. how do you assess that, that you can still win a majority for it?
i have to say, madam president, mr president, in your last speech to us in this parliament a few months ago, you reminded us all of our common european historical heritage. you have warned and condemned in clear terms that fascism is being normalized and trivialized in europe. and in fact, we are in a very fundamental conflict at the moment. in some member states, alliances are being formed involving parties of fascist origin or parties which, out of historical ignorance, are fighting against our european democracy. they want a europe of nations, of which only a few benefit and almost all lose. they start with attacks on minorities and on the media - as we are currently seeing in italy, where rainbow families are discriminated against, absurd nationalist language laws are introduced and free journalists are pressured. it must be our common democratic task to stand up to this. so it's all the more shocking that conservatives and unfortunately some liberals are planning alliances with these parties. the firewall to the right must not fall!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the weaknesses of the current pfas chemicals regulation became apparent last year when the forever pollution project disclosed more than 17 000 old pfas loads in the eu. more than 50 years ago, the manufacturer dupont discovered that its products per- and polyfluorinated alkylated substances, pfas were highly harmful to health and the environment. when registering under reach, these data have also been mandatory declared to the european chemicals agency. and indeed, the european union has succeeded in restricting some of these substances. but this restriction affects less than one percent of the 5,000 pfas. if we continue at this pace, we will not be finished in the next century. here, as on other points for which i do not have time to speak - uvcb, polymers, sanctions, energy-efficient manufacturing, speed of procedures - there is an urgent need for action. i hereby call on the commission to finally deliver on its repeated promise under the chemicals strategy in the plenary session of commissioner šefčovič, at the hearing in the environment committee of director ciobanu-dordea and to present the reach revision proposal by june at the latest. mrs von der leyen, the citizens, but also the progressive players in industry, who are in need of investment security at last, are waiting for your initiative. unblock the way so we can vote on the parliamentary position for this important bill in this legislature.
madam president, when we signed up to the green deal as a european parliament, we signed up to climate neutrality, a fully circular economy and a zero-pollution economy. and that has also been said by you, madam commissioner. we want a toxic-free environment and that is also a key part of the green deal that europe needs to deliver on. and that’s exactly what’s at stake here. a lot of my colleagues talked about pfas and forever chemicals and the problems that we are seeing, and the contaminated sites all over europe being a forever chemical. and i want to thank the swedish government, not as a presidency, but the government for their action, together with others, on making sure that there will be a group restriction. however, if there is a group restriction, it will take 3 to 15 years from now. so it takes time and it shows we need a revision of our policies. we need a revision of reach. and for that we need also an urgent proposal on the table. dear madam commissioner, you said ‘as soon as it’s ready, at the latest the fourth quarter’, but the impact assessment passed the scrutiny boards. the chemicals strategy for sustainability is very clear. you know what to do. and even if the environment is not compelling enough for you, the industry now is also asking to move fast: if you come beyond june, then there will be a very long, insecure period for industry because then it will not be dealt by this parliament. it will go to the next term and it will just be delays and uncertainty for companies. and that should be a concern for other dgs than maybe only the dgs that also are working on the environment, although that should be our concern as well.
madam president, i agree 100 % with strengthening legislation in this area, but we also need to make sure that what is already there is actually enforced. in ireland, the law governing sustainable use of pesticides, which enacts the sustainable use of pesticides directive, makes it clear that pesticides should not be used in areas used by the general public or vulnerable groups, or environmentally sensitive areas. however, at least 28 out of ireland’s 31 local authorities are still using chemical herbicide, of which at least 19 are using glyphosate-based weed killers, as of this year. data on pesticide use is gathered inconsistently between local authorities, with some councils not keeping records required by the eu sustainable use of pesticides directive. i heard one epp member here use the word how it was important to look after our health and then put in a ‘but’, because there’s always a ‘but’ there for these people. well, if there was no ‘but’ there 30 years ago, my father would now be alive. six months ago, he died from asbestosis. he used asbestos; he was told it would keep him safe from burning when he was using an angle grinder. and that’s because a few people in the past said, ‘oh, but we’ve got to keep it’. if there was no ‘but’ my father would be alive now.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. does my raincoat belong in the special waste now? and is the baking paper carcinogenic? these are legitimate questions which cannot be answered clearly at the present time and which have been on the minds of many people since this report at the latest. pfas, the so-called eternal chemicals, have been detected at 1,500 sites in germany. water, dirt, and grease repellent - these are the properties that make them so ubiquitous: clothing, disposable packaging, even in the blood of infants and in breast milk. forever chemicals actually sounds like a nice name for a band. however, it is a group of substances suspected of impairing liver and thyroid function and causing cancer. both problematic and problematic, they cannot be naturally degraded. the precautionary principle should guide our chemicals policy. if there is concern that a substance is harmful to health, the problem cannot be dismissed - especially if neither humans nor the environment can break down these substances. the problem is actually exacerbated by sitting out. the european chemicals agency must quickly clarify this. we need clear statements from the commission.
i have to say, madam president, highly toxic perennial chemicals such as pfas are found throughout europe and the world. what's particularly shocking is that it's now taken for granted in our everyday products, like rainproof jackets, and even worse, in food contact materials like paper straws to make them waterproof. so we're exposed to them every day, our children are exposed to them every day. they cause cancer and affect the immune, hormonal, reproductive, and cardiovascular systems. in nature, they cannot be mined for hundreds of years and are highly toxic to water and animals. so we are putting ourselves and our environment at risk for generations to come. for me, this means very clearly that for the sake of our health, for the sake of our children, for the sake of our environment, we cannot be exposed to these substances like pfas. industry must show where they are unavoidable in processes, how they do not come into contact with people and the environment and what their end-of-life determination is. and the revision of the chemicals regulation must be tabled as soon as possible in june in the interests of us all.
i have to say, madam president, when some of us back in the '70s shouted that the pesticides would go underground, we were rebuffed with the absurd charge: "doomsday prophet, it will take at least 30 years!" we are now faced with the great generational pollution that we are fighting against all over europe, and that battle has been my political career for almost 50 years. but it still seems that the key decision-makers have not learned from the experience. they're repeating themselves now with pfas. the european union is already heavily contaminated by it, and we know that it can plague us for centuries to come. we must ban all non-essential pfas chemicals as soon as possible and find ways to phase out the others. and those member states which are now ready to do so themselves must get on with it. but as many have already mentioned, reach needs to be revised urgently. it is time to take responsibility for the environment and nature of our children and grandchildren. it is to them that the precautionary principle applies, not the fear of stepping on the toes of reactionary industries and politicians.
madam president, we share the ambition of having an environment free of toxic substances. no one can wish otherwise. no one can want otherwise. firstly, the existing rules must be complied with, which are not being complied with. i agree with the change in the rules of the reach regulation, but it is necessary to demand compliance with what is not being complied with now. and that's important, because if there was more compliance, we probably wouldn't be where we are. and for all of this, to eliminate these plastics, we also need to change the regulations, but also our habits and our society. we also need, of course, to forge partnerships to ensure that we have a healthier and healthier environment and water, of course, but we need the budget for that too. it is very important, but very difficult to deal with, that science should be the one to weigh and measure all these measures. it's very important to always consider what science tells us.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. pfas are here to stay unfortunately. they're highly toxic and should have been phased out by now. but you can't see them, you can't avoid them, in products, in water, in air, in soil. but what is actually done? in germany, 1,500 sites are affected. but we still have six factories in germany and the largest number of factories in europe producing pfas in bad wimpfen, in frankfurt, in leverkusen, in the gendorf chemical park near burgkirchen. what's going on? there's a huge area that's probably going to be affected by our continued production. and the cost of remediating contaminated sites alone will be 17 billion euros, and the consequential health costs will likely be much higher. but it is also, if you look at it now, actually a failure of the european union's chemicals agency that they have done nothing for years. therefore, all non-essential pfas must be withdrawn from the market as soon as possible and the chemicals strategy must be adopted now. we have no time to wait until after the summer, but now must be acted. that is why i urgently appeal to the commission to act now.
i have to say, madam president, chemicals of all ages are one of the greatest threats to our health and to our environment of our time. and it is a scandal that the eu has not done more to protect us against them. toxins like pfas are everywhere in our daily lives. they make us sick, they pollute our environment, and then they reduce fertility. seriously, we need action now! pfas is a cross-border problem that can only be solved here in the european community. but we've known about this for a long time. how is it then that we have not done more about it in the eu? in fact, i think the eu is blowing the precautionary principle when it has been silent about our drinking water being filled with pfas. the commission must take responsibility now so that we can get a new chemicals legislation passed before the european elections. if we don't hurry, we risk years before we get to the bottom of this. and a lot of member countries have also been pushing for something to be done. so i will end by asking the commission directly: 'what are we waiting for?' let's get that restraining order now!
madam president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, 17 000 will be the number of the day. seventeen thousand sites across europe are contaminated by the eternal pollutants, pollutants from chemicals used in industry, agriculture and in our daily lives. these pollutants are contributing to the obesity pandemic, the significant increase in environmental cancers and the fertility problems we face across europe. and what do governments do? nothing of any significance. last friday, after six months of a carefully orchestrated cover-up by the french government, it emerged that a disastrous report on perpetual pollutants concluded that these substances were poorly monitored and were totally unable to be removed during the treatment of drinking water. this french observation is valid for the whole of the european union. when will we stop playing with the health of our fellow citizens to allow a few to get rich? today, european regulation is flawed and its enforcement is lacking. the european commission must not give in to the pressure of the industry lobbies, whose spokesman is commissioner thierry breton. the commission must propose its revision of the regulation by june. the protection of the health of europeans is your duty and the duty of all of us. (applause) i would like to thank
member of the commission. – madam president, colleagues, i do want to try and respond to some of your questions, and i will understand if i am not giving you the answers you need but i do think we need to be very clear. and i will convey the strength of this debate to my colleagues in the commission, as i’m sure you will be aware. so on the timing of the revision of reach, we know this revision is urgent and we’ve heard it from the environment committee and now today in this debate. as you know, when presenting the work programme of the commission, vice-president šefčovič spoke of the possibility of an earlier date for the proposal, if we can do that. i mentioned already that we are working hard, with great urgency, to ensure the quality of the proposal. as you said in your intervention, bas eickhout, the impact assessment is complete and the services are addressing the comments from the regulatory scrutiny board. drafting of the legislation is underway. it is programmed for q4 but if the proposal is ready earlier, it remains a possibility. on the second point – questions on the state of play of the pfas restriction – as you know, five countries have submitted the restriction dossier to the european chemicals agency in january of this year. this procedure requires two assessments by two specific committees. the aim of echa is to deliver the opinions to the commission in the shortest possible time frame, while obviously ensuring proper scrutiny from the committees. and based on the restriction proposal and the opinions provided by these committees, the commission makes the legislative proposal for the restriction under reach. and i would also point out that this restriction procedure that the five member states are undertaking is under the current legal framework of reach. so timing is not affected by the new proposals for the targeted revision of the reach provisions. you raise a very important point in this debate around enforcement of existing legislation, and this is one of the issues that we will deal with in the revision of reach: improving enforcement by setting up an audit system, increased transparency and frequent checks. so i hope that addresses questions which were raised by colleagues. briefly, in conclusion, we are already taking some steps. if i point out the contamination of soils and drinking water, we are working to protect health and the environment, including rules under the industrial emissions directive, setting limit values through water and food legislation and restrictions under eu chemicals legislation. as i have said, we do need to update reach to increase market incentives also for chemicals that are safe and sustainable by design, with benefits for health and the environment, for the economy and jobs. the assessment of the risks of these substances in soils must be improved and appropriate remedial action taken if required. the commission will facilitate a dialogue and knowledge exchange on risk assessment of soil contaminants, and i think we all agree that we owe this to citizens and the environment. and, indeed, we owe this to industry, which needs – as you pointed out – long-term legal clarity and predictability when they make their investment choices.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members and commissioner, this debate has shown that we all agree that pfas are some of the most problematic substances of our time, and these toxic substances are a threat to humans, animals and the environment. and for this reason, i believe that it is very positive that we are taking steps towards a sustainable chemical policy with the revised reach and other files that were raised here today, and this is of utmost importance to protect our health and the environment. and as i said at the beginning of this debate, the presidency stands ready to work on the proposals as soon as these are tabled, which the commissioner has pointed out. and thank you for noting sweden’s actions and, in parallel, of course we will continue to work on improving the quality of our water and our soil. thank you again for this important debate and thank you for your attention.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
written. according to recent research, the ever-present chemical pfas can lead to fertility problems in women. it is found in our food, among other things, so it is not surprising that a large number of people are contaminated with it. to solve this problem, we need more transparency and more checks. we need to work together to avoid soil pollution and regenerate already polluted soil. also, we have to prevent contamination at the source. environmental protection is the protection of the competitiveness of the european economy. although more than 20 000 chemicals are registered in europe on a daily basis, there are about 100 000 on the market. accordingly, we need to change our lifestyle and involve industry in solving this problem. since these are substances that threaten our health, it is important to act as soon as possible. we must protect the environment not only through laws, but also through individual habits and society. we also need financial resources. there should be science behind all measures. some countries want to impose restrictions, but they won't take effect until 2026. since 75% more pfas are released into the environment each year, an urgent review of the chemicals regulation is needed. the interests of multinational corporations must not be put before the interests of human life.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr stefan berger, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on markets in crypto-assets and amending directive (eu) 2019/1937 (com ((2020) 0593 c9-0306/2020 2020/0265 ((cod)) (a9 0052/2022) and the report by mr ernest urtasun, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, and mr assita kanko, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the provision of information in connection with money transfers and transfers of certain crypto-assets (recast) (com ((202041) c9341/2021 2021/0241 (cod)) (a0091/2022).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. with tomorrow's vote on the crypto regulation, a long and complex process comes to an end. the vote tomorrow will be a joint success, a success, ladies and gentlemen, for which we have fought for a long time. and with tomorrow's final vote on the crypto regulation, we're putting the european union at the global forefront of the token economy. so far, the legal situation at krypto has been comparable to the wild west. rules to protect consumers from fraud and risks were de facto non-existent. this is going to end now. we saw the ftx case, where one exchange burned $30 billion and almost triggered a lehman brothers moment, and that's only because there was no regulation to prevent it. mica markets in crypto-assets is repairing the trust that was damaged by cases like ftx, and through this balanced regulatory framework, we are creating stability in a young industry. what is this legal framework? what have we devised? first, we classify coins so we can judge them. then we clarify the information rights of consumers, and that's why coin publishers now have to create a white paper that covers the underlying technology, risks, exchange, return rights and much more in order to be allowed to trade. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. facebook, with 2.4 billion users, would never have gotten such approval for the planned libra project. we excluded non-fungible tokens from mica. the commission considers that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the principles of the union state aid rules, and that they are therefore compatible with the internal market. this is a good solution, just as we have ensured and found a competent supervisory architecture between eba and esma. finally, the environmental impact aspect has been a very controversial subject for our negotiating team. we have found a good solution without having to resort to a ban on proof-of-work. instead, publishers must comply with strict disclosure requirements on energy consumption and environmental impact. i think that this data should allow everyone to decide for themselves whether or not to buy a crypto asset. ladies and gentlemen, the tokenization is continuing. blockchain technology is enabling groundbreaking innovation. with mica, we have the right answer. i want to thank all the shadow reporters for the intellectual high-class discussions. we have ventured into areas that have never been the subject of political debate before. i also thank the commission for its good cooperation in these complex discussions and i ask for broad support tomorrow.
mr president, the eu is introducing a new regulatory framework for crypto—assets, which offers some consumer protection, may deter businesses operating from within the eu, but above all raises serious privacy concerns. the new rules impose extensive compliance requirements on crypto—asset providers which need to obtain an eu operating licence. crypto—asset providers also need to provide real—time information about pricing processes and trading volumes. this requires considerable technical expertise, which raises entry barriers for smes. crypto transfers above eur 1 000 between exchanges and unhosted wallets owned by private individuals are now automatically reported to national authorities, regardless of any money laundering or terrorism—related suspicions. the eu is criminalising decentralised finance and its users. the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing should be fought against the islamist terrorists and the ngos financing them, not against ordinary citizens that are venturing into crypto for a safe store of value in times of runaway inflation and unaffordable real estate. under the guise of anti-terrorism and anti-money laundering, the eu is establishing a total financial surveillance state. this should be a grave concern for anyone who takes privacy and individual rights seriously.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ten years ago no one knew about crypto-assets. today, they are both investments, quasi-currencies and laundering channels. the potential of these innovations should not, however, be overestimated in the light of the risks to our citizens and our societies. their volatility and the high level of financial risk they entail require caution. the ftx case was mentioned earlier, but there are also scams and schemes promoted by pseudo-influencers, which threaten our small savers and retail investors every day. that is why it is essential to finally establish a rule - that of transparency, especially in this jungle that has none - a rule that allows us to enforce law and justice. but we must not fall behind in this area, as in many other technological innovations that will profoundly change our world and the future, and perhaps even beyond what we can imagine today. we must not be overtaken by events and especially by the lightning of these technological advances. we must base technology and its advances on human principles, which pass through human beings and work for human beings, in order to enable not our enslavement but our emancipation. and the first of freedoms is to accept its rules.
mr president, this new system that we are voting upon brings the transfer of crypto funds and assets under full surveillance, even for small values. it’s a needed measure. it brings crypto assets within the scope of eu legislation on financial services. it signals that the regulatory framework applying to them will be strong and transparent. whether we like it or not, crypto technology is here to stay. the new measures are not intended to stifle this development. so robust they could actually help to promote the eu as a crypto hub. for i am told, the technology has now reached a phase where it’s really established itself as a legitimate area of activity. its practitioners and developers do need and do want a strong regulatory framework. not in the us, where cacophony prevails. their hope is the eu. cutting-edge american developers, among the best and the brightest, are relocating to europe. we should welcome this. even so, i am still unsure about the understanding we have of the impact of crypto technology on market economies and financial systems. most of the inputs and interventions we hear, feel like they’re dealing with only one or three tentacles of an octopus. we do not have a conceptual model – keynesian, friedmanite, or whatever – to help explain and guide the macroeconomic and macrofinancial implications of crypto developments. it feels a bit, perhaps on a larger scale, like the misgivings we had about shadow banking in the recent past. that makes me uneasy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr berger, for his report. in recent years, of course, the rise of digital currencies has revolutionized the way we think about money, but it has also raised serious concerns about the potential for illicit activities, especially money laundering. those who have so-called digital wallets are often aware that they're going to be emptied out due to market volatility, so we could say that without even going to the store, you're going to be left with a large chunk of money, when we're talking about cryptocurrencies. however, we are here to actually, like all other markets, fall within the legal framework and this proposal is part of a package of legislative proposals to strengthen the european union's rules against money laundering, but also against the financing of terrorism. the update, of course, must extend the scope of the rules to certain crypto-assets for which there is an increasing risk of criminal exploitation and money laundering. there are numerous testimonies to this. it is also worth noting that traditional financial systems are also not immune to money laundering and that this is a systemic problem requiring a multi-pronged approach to address. in addition, there are steps that can be taken against money laundering in the cryptocurrency space, and of course steps like the implementation of know your customer and anti-money laundering policies, which require users to identify and undergo in-depth checks. in closing, i'd like to say -- it's true that cryptocurrency transactions can be much harder to track than traditional financial transactions, but it's worth remembering that the vast majority of cryptocurrency users are legitimate individuals and companies that use this technology for legitimate purposes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. cash is financial freedom. we can buy and donate anonymously without scissors in our heads. no one is exempt from cash. with cash, there are no card locks or negative interest rates. we pirates are fighting for the digital age, for digital cash, which is as free and anonymous as banknotes and coins. for example, to be able to donate to wikileaks when the banks of the disclosure platform once again turned off the credit card donations. for example, so that russian citizens can support the dissident navalny without fear of repression by the putin regime. the total ban on anonymous payments and donations in digital currencies, starting with the first euro, has little impact on crime, but robs law-abiding citizens of their financial freedom. criminal crypto-transactions are already being successfully pursued by the police and the judiciary without general suspicion. but we do not agree that for some people the fight against terrorism is just an excuse to gain more and more control over our private spending and then gradually to abolish cash. we pirates are and will remain the voice of financial freedom and privacy here in the european parliament. that's why we reject this extreme crypto regulation.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you to the members for all of your comments. i think we’ve covered the entire spectrum of views around this piece of legislation. in my view, it is extremely timely, and i repeat my thanks to all involved. in addition, we all know that crypto activity is not within a borders regime – it crosses borders, it’s international. while we have done our work, and i compliment you ahead of tomorrow’s vote, i think it’s really important that we work internationally as well. so we’re hoping that our international partners will also look at introducing legislation or regulation around this space. what we believe is that having a regulatory framework on crypto assets allows the industry to evolve in a more cohesive and safer environment. and i would hope that our work, our rules could become a model for other countries. we’re also closely following the work of the financial stability board on crypto assets, so it’s not as if we have done our work and are ignoring what is happening and, indeed, what will continue to happen in the future. but i repeat the point that global convergence is absolutely key. here in the european union, our new rules will protect against risks to consumer protection, market integrity, money laundering and financial stability, and i think those are very important issues for citizens. as i mentioned in my opening remarks, the first of these rules will come into application in july 2024. in the meantime, i strongly encourage our supervisors to watch these activities very carefully already now, even before the new rules apply formally. and i believe that that is happening and i would encourage it. but also to add – and i think some of you have alluded to this – that this area of crypto is evolving even as we speak. and therefore, we know that tomorrow’s vote is not the conclusion of our work on crypto. there are issues which we will probably need to look at, but it was a little bit too early to do it in this legislation. and here i mentioned decentralised finance, lending and borrowing of crypto assets and non-fungible tokens. it was considered to be premature to fully address these issues, considering their early development and novelty in these markets. so it’s not fully clear yet if we will need additional legislation, but the commission is mandated to assess the feasibility and necessity of regulating those activities within 18 months after the entry into force of mica, and indeed, we’re starting to prepare that work now. in relation to whether our rules would have prevented some of the more recent events which have dramatically impacted citizens around the world, we believe that had ftx, for example, been captured under eu jurisdiction, many of its practices would not have been permissible under mica or indeed under applicable rules already, such as mifid, for their derivatives business. and for example, service providers under mica must properly manage or disclose conflicts of interest. and there are strict rules on segregating clients’ assets. in addition, mica explicitly prevents the use of clients’ funds for the trading platform’s own account. and on the issue of environmental impacts, the co-legislators, in my view, agreed on a very balanced position to address this issue by robust disclosure requirements. so i think on these issues we are certainly very clear about the work we have done and, indeed, open to what might lie ahead. a comment was made about the eu criminalising crypto. of course, that is not the case at all. those who engage in criminal activity criminalise themselves. what we are putting in place is the regulations to ensure that we find out what is happening in this area and indeed avoid that it happens at all. on the latter questions of cash and freedom and those important points, i constantly say as commissioner responsible in this area that we absolutely defend the rights of citizens to have access to cash. but i dare say that issue will arise in the upcoming debate around the digital euro. but i really appreciate the opportunity to have had this debate with colleagues today. i thank you very much for your incredible work in this area and i look forward to seeing the result of tomorrow’s vote.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i think that summing up this debate shows the full breadth of a new economic area that is very dynamic, that is young, that is in its infancy. and the points raised, which are still to be resolved - yes, of course they are still to be resolved, because this area is young. the questions were: do we have enough time or does mica need to be implemented sooner? of course, the players in this field must be able to adapt to mica. of course, we need a few more months for companies in europe to have time to adapt their businesses to mica. are we taking environmental aspects into account? i think i did. we are bringing them into a new economic sector for the first time, without trying to ban technological consensus mechanisms, without interfering with technology, but being open to new developments. because we have to see one thing: the world is not waiting for us. in america, billions of dollars are invested in metaverse every year. within these metaverse, nfts are used, blockchain money is used, in web3, nfts are used to pay. we must protect all this and try to make it possible for it to be created here in europe. and that is why i cannot really understand the criticism of mr breyer and the pirates. mica is not going to make it impossible to donate bitcoin to ukraine. i believe that we have finally found a compromise which, by the decision of this parliament tomorrow, will now set in motion a framework which will enable innovation and growth in europe without unduly restricting opportunities. and it is in this spirit that i shall be asking for support for this proposal again tomorrow.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not last month, christine lagarde was the victim of a prank call. unintentionally, lagarde revealed that the digital euro is about total state control over the money of the citizens. lagarde: 'we have in europe a threshold above eur 1 000, you cannot pay cash. if you do, you take your risk, you get caught, you're fined, or you go to jail. our citizens will be controlled, only for very small amounts around eur 300 or eur 400 will there be no control. payments over 1000 euros are to be controlled and eventually everything over three or four hundred euros. cash payments guarantee freedom, because no bank or government can know what you bought, where, how and when. cash protects against negative interest, expropriation and loss due to bank failures. lagarde was tricked into making that call, and now we know: the digital euro is going to take away that freedom of cash payment.
mr president, commissioner, today's debate is about the launch of the digital euro as a complement to, and not a substitute for, cash. we are not alone in this debate: other central banks are doing the same, and we would do well to try to go hand in hand. in short, this start-up must be preceded by a cost-benefit analysis. in case of doubt, we should refrain from acting, although we should not refrain from further study of this matter in order not to fall behind. i have three certainties. the first is that the digital euro must be available to all citizens and businesses in the euro area. the second is that it will be recorded in the balance sheet of the european central bank, which means that we are talking about a public good and not a private good. thirdly, that operations for the public will be delegated to financial institutions, which does not exempt the european central bank and this institution from being attentive to the regulation and supervision of what is done in this field. i give three warnings. the first is that the digital euro must be attractive in order to be accepted by the population, but it must not be overly accepted so that it does not become a store of value that ends cash and accelerates the withdrawal of deposits; in that case, the euro would lose its status as a monetary anchor. the second is that the access of the digital euro to non-residents and its interoperability with other digital currencies from other areas will make it possible to make the payments transferred cheaper and more effective. and third, that the digital euro should not compete with the digital payment services currently provided by private institutions, but complement them. it is an important debate which we cannot afford to delay.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the digital euro is an exciting project, born as a reaction to libra, which today is hardly even talked about. it raises an important question: what role can public money play in contrast to private banking money and private digital money? the answer to this question tells us how we must design a digital euro. in my view, the central task of the digital euro is to open up access to financial services to everyone. there's been a lot of talk about freedom here today. but what's important is that people are given the freedom to participate in financial services in the first place. financial poverty as a result of lack of access to a bank account that's the central problem. 3.6% of european households do not have a bank account. this means, firstly, that consumers need direct access to the ecb with their own account. secondly, it must be possible to use the digital euro offline. and thirdly, it is essential to make it possible to use money as an investment of value without encouraging speculation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. our currencies are in international competition, and it is therefore important that they can operate in a performance-oriented manner and free of political influence. because we're in competition for our currency, we have to go with innovation. the innovation phase of digital currency is coming, and we cannot close ourselves off as a european monetary union. that means we must have the courage to take this path together, the digital euro, commissioner. i also listened very carefully to your speech. you have said five or six times in your speech, commissioner, that we do not want to ban cash. the important thing is that politicians do what they say they will do. i do not understand - and it is simply not in the context - when you are discussing a cash limit of two or three thousand euros on the other hand. because then, what people out there are afraid of is going to happen, and that is that cash is going to be banned. it is no use to insist here again and again that we want to keep cash because there is a political majority for it, but we must stop wanting to restrict cash, so to speak, in the other place. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. what can you buy for 2000 euros today and what can you buy for 2000 euros in 10 years' time if these mistakes are not finally corrected? and therefore, stop with the cash ceiling!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the digital euro project can be a new foundation for the european digital economy, which, as the ecb has also indicated, has absolutely identical aims, such as strengthening the role of the euro and supporting digitalisation. it would also give consumers a quick way to pay. however, i would like to raise a few questions which concern first of all the diffusion, accessibility and the possibility of making offline payments under any conditions. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take account of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. in the first case, digital money could become a perfect substitute for bank deposits, limiting the role of banks and, i add, in this case we must also give further thought to the regulation on instant payments, which we will be negotiating in these very months, in order to avoid creating unnecessary duplications or overlaps. if it were to be provided completely free of charge, the risk could occur in periods of high financial instability, where we would be faced with a rush to the digital euro of bank deposits. i therefore agree to continue the digital euro project, provided that it is clear, easy to use and secure and allows online payments to be made even to those who are currently excluded from the financial system, and thus provides added value for consumers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. digitalisation - this is a binary - undoubtedly brings with it opportunities and benefits as well as risks and dangers. the ecb's planned digitalisation of the euro as a currency clearly outweighs the risks and dangers. economically, a digital euro is putting small and medium-sized banks at existential risk. you're in danger of losing your money. the digital euro will not bring more security, as the ecb claims, but on the contrary will cause considerable unrest in the financial market. politically, digital currency is even more dangerous. it is perfectly clear that this is only a first step towards the complete abolition of all other means of payment. it is a major step towards total surveillance of all transactions and thus total control of citizens by an intrusive state. why do you think china has already eagerly digitized its yuan? as democratically elected representatives of the people, it is our duty to protect citizens from this total control and to resolutely prevent the introduction of a digital euro. the cash at issue here must never be abolished.
mr president, commissioner mcguinness, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. over 100 countries are now working on a central bank digital currency. europe and the european central bank are leading the way in this monetary race. in the us, congressmen and governors are talking about banning cbdcs. here in europe, there is talk not only about the need for a digital euro, but also about what it should look like. and while apple, google, paypal, visa, mastercard, they handle a huge part of european money, they are all located outside the european union. and it is good that we are working on a european solution. i see the digital euro as an opportunity. but it has to be done right. and he needs qualities to succeed. digital central bank money needs to be as anonymous as cash. it has to be a freedom-builder and an innovation driver, or we don't need it. and the digital euro also only works in conjunction with our commercial banks, not without them. he can't jeopardize the two-tier banking system. and we were just talking about crypto-assets. the digital euro was intended to be a reconciliation between the traditional financial and monetary system and the rapidly growing decentralised finance economy. we are currently at a stage where the ecb is exploring decentralised solutions for this project, including distributed ledger technology. and a decentralized solution as the underlying technology for the digital euro would be good. and a programmable digital euro would be the very top, because it could compete with blockchain-based stablecoins like euro tether, circled eurocoins and many other blockchain developments in general and would offer advantages over sepa as well. the digital euro should not include one thing, as we read this morning: it should be free of charge. it has to be free.
(introduction to the speech with the microphone off) ... by icct, the international council for clean transport, based on rather incomprehensible theoretical calculations, to the conclusion that allegedly 70 percent of euro 5 and euro 6 diesel models may have prohibited switching technologies. by the way, the pompous name of this icct is probably meant to hide the fact that it is just one of the countless climate-action ngos that are happy to deliver on political orders and have already been beaten up for unscientific claims. and it is interesting that according to the icct's own statements, the commission is one of the main sponsors. the aim is to reduce the existing diesel fleet, since the ban on combustion engines from 2035 will only apply to new registrations. - i know.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the eu strategy for global health (2023/2642 ((rsp)).
so now we have the problem that commissioner kyriakides is on her way, and commissioner schmit cannot step in. she should be here in one or two minutes, so we will take the political group speakers while we wait for her. the epp speaker is here, i see, so if you are ready to start, mr sokol, then we will take the commissioner afterwards.
i propose that we continue with the third group speaker so that you have time to arrive, commissioner. in a debate about health we do not want to cause health problems because of stress!
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the eu strategy for global health is summarised in a few sentences: big pharma is throwing billions of taxpayer dollars down their throats for a useless, harmful, even deadly product. roll the cost of the lethal injection damage onto the taxpayer. empower the president of the commission to enrich her own husband personally in the course of her duties. transfer governmental authority to the who and thereby disempower the peoples that constitute democracies. sell all this as beneficial to the people, stigmatize, insult, ridicule and denigrate all those who see otherwise. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the last three years have shown: the interest of the eu, the who and big pharma in public health is as big as the interest of the arms industry in world peace, which is not at all.
thank you all very much for your flexibility during that first round of speakers.
i thank all those who wanted to listen to the german translation, which did not work, for the flexibility to switch to another channel. it's being fixed now. we're still going, there was just a hint. we can both do this in another language. thank you very much.
i have to say, madam president, so, frankly, i am already afraid of an eu commission that presumes to quickly declare a health emergency only within the eu, for example, because of beware, i quote literally from a newly entered regulation climate-related hazards . so, let me get this straight, a health emergency from heavy rain, a storm, or too much sun? you fool! but practical. the commission's role in the fight against the spread of the virus is to ensure that the european union is able to take action against the virus. and now you want to please humanity globally with your green power fantasies disguised as health concerns in the face of investigations by the european public prosecutor's office. all in preparation for the planned vaccination campaign in the autumn with the corona vaccine: little effect, but many side effects.
please do not stress, because normally it is not allowed to show pictures, and not to have 20 seconds over time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. if i were living in uganda today, i would probably be in prison right now, and i would probably be facing the death penalty, because i am the person i am and i love the person i love. this is all the incredible senselessness that this law is making a reality in uganda. i feel an incredible compassion today for the people who are now being victimized by this incredible criminal law. i feel a great sense of gratitude today to be able to live in the european union, where sexual orientation is protected in the charter of fundamental rights. but i see that we have to fight for these universal rights all over the world. and we must not take it for granted in the european union either, because the right wing in this house today are even too cowardly or too lazy to take part in this debate at all, but otherwise they will speak for the traditional family at every opportunity and want to take away our rights. everyone should be able to live as they love and as they live, and not have to fear the death penalty for it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. with this law, we have nothing but fear and danger. the best way is to leave this country. with these words, a 23-year-old trans woman describes the fears of the ugandan lgbti community. in the city of jinja, six men were recently arrested for practicing homosexuality. i think we all have a hard time imagining what it must be like to live in fear of death, and how brave it is to stand up for equal rights in that environment. we stand in solidarity with lgbti activists in uganda such as kasha nabagesera. ugandan lgbti people deserve our solidarity for their freedom struggle. their fight for freedom is our fight. not only homosexuality, but also the support of lgbti people is to be criminalized under the new hate law. in the worst case, the death penalty is a possibility. it is our duty to stand up to this in diplomatic relations, with economic sanctions and also with easier access to asylum for ugandan lgbti.
author. – mr president, the taliban has started a new attack against women and against education. only one and a half years after the taliban took power, women are banned from public life – no education, no parks, no work. in their latest cynical decree, women are no longer allowed to work for the un. today’s taliban are willing to sacrifice the lives of more than one million afghans threatened by starvation only for their gender apartheid ideology. they attack the future of their country, the education of its youngest. the taliban’s self—proclaimed minister of education announced the preparation of a new jihadi – yes, that’s the word he used – curriculum. private schools are being forced to close by now in at least two districts, and madrassas are being built across the country, providing the only means of education for many boys. at the same time, those advocating for education in line with afghan tradition in line with islamic teaching, are put behind bars like matiullah wesa from pen path. he spent more than 14 years of his life travelling throughout afghanistan, finding local solutions for local problems, working with tribal leaders to open schools in rural areas. this guy is an afghan national hero. let’s face the terrible truth. the taliban are holding women captive in their homes and they want to raise a new generation of jihadi fighters. i know there is no easy answer, no easy solution for this, but this is precisely why we can’t turn our backs. this is precisely why we have to watch carefully what is happening in the country, why we shouldn’t even think about recognising the taliban, and why we should all jointly demand the release of matiullah wesa and all those unjustly held in taliban prisons.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there are not many in russia who publicly criticize the war, who name the facts and, above all, who declare solidarity with ukraine. vladimir kara-mursa is one of those few. he is a very special politician and journalist who has shown extraordinary courage, but not only that. he has given up his relatively safe and comfortable life and returned to russia despite repeated threats because he is driven by the desire to create a better state through his own actions, just like his father and even his grandfather during the soviet union. his goal is like our goal a free russia. free russia! he is currently being accused by putin of discrediting the russian army. but no one discredits the russian military more than putin himself. the so-called three-day special operation, which has now cost the lives of almost 200,000 russian soldiers in over 14 months, is undoubtedly the biggest failure for the self-proclaimed second largest army in the world. for speaking this obvious truth, kara-mursa received the unimaginable sentence of 25 years in a concentration camp. nothing frightens putin and his cronies more than the truth. so there is hope for all of us and for the honest people in russia that putin's regime will fall much sooner than the arrest of kara-mursa and the many other political prisoners in russia. i can only echo kara-mursa's words: russia will be free and that means slava ukraini and žyve belarus.
author. madam president, the young yahaya aminu sharif is a singer who, in a song, allegedly criticized the prophet of islam and who allegedly published the result on social networks in august 2020, which led to him being sentenced to death by hanging for blasphemy. blasphemy laws are laws that actually go against human rights. since his conviction, the 24-year-old has been living in suspense will the sentence be carried out? his lawyers also challenged the kano court's ruling. they called the 2000 law of the kano state sharia penal code as contrary to the nigerian constitution, which guarantees freedom of religion and belief. we have seen that in recent years in several countries of various religious persuasions blasphemy has been considered a crime. blasphemy is therefore punishable. in condemning this young man, one can ask the question: is this not rather a repression that can intimidate the youth who aspire to more freedom and who put artistic expression above religion, and this in a country that wants, at least in the north, muslim obedience? we therefore call on the nigerian authorities to show mercy during this blessed month of ramadan and even to consider abolishing the death penalty throughout the country. in all religions, forgiveness is a central value, incompatible with the death penalty.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. shouldn't the ipcc be talking about adaptation to climate change in particular, rather than just showing this obsession with atmospheric co2? and why doesn't he point out that over half of the anthropogenic co2 is being sequestered, so net zero doesn't mean net zero? and why should reducing co2 emissions be synonymous with getting off fossil fuels? this doctrine is simply wrong. and even the german weather service knows that the sun is the engine of weather and that it causes temperature variations on earth. and that doesn't apply to climate as a 30-year average of weather anymore? and the sun is one of many climate factors. and then there's the catch question every fortune teller has to ask: what did i eat yesterday? how do i know? because the computer models of the ipcc -- a political organization that was created to prove man-made climate change -- have a lot of prophetic crystal ball. because they're working on the garbage in, garbage out principle, so they're only as smart as the programmer and spitting, fed the data from the co2 end-time molecule, out the desired climate catastrophes. but they fail regularly - and exceptionally very reliably - to calculate the climate of yesterday and the day before, as does every decent forecaster. and that's all you need to know.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. you may have seen this graph in the world climate report. i looked at that. i didn't know what it meant at first, but it's existential: children born in 2020 who, by the time they're 45, may already be experiencing a world three degrees hotter. this means that billions are affected by droughts, famines and floods. it means a cold world, a world without freedom. you may know someone who was born in 2020. i'm talking about my daughter. the un secretary-general has said that rich countries must become climate neutral by 2040. we in the european parliament, we are deciding this year, we are talking this year about our climate target for 2040. ladies and gentlemen, what kind of world do you want to live in? let us choose a climate-neutral world, a world where we can guarantee freedom for ourselves and our children.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. un secretary-general antónio guterres has called the ipcc report a survival guide. i have listened to the whole debate now and i think that some of my colleagues may really need some guidance and we must act accordingly. because the first finding of the report, which must never become routine, is that our current climate action is not enough and the climate damage is already being felt. but the ipcc report also gives us a guide to survival, because it's clear that we already have the technologies and the knowledge: solar and wind energy, energy efficiency, a different food system -- all of these can make big contributions at low cost. and it's also a message to all those who would rather light a fog candle in this debate right now -- of unavailable fuels, or nuclear revivals that are far too expensive -- than work in the here and now to see that we can also avert the climate crisis with available innovation. speaking of nuclear power, it's not even mentioned in the ipcc report as a solution. on the contrary, the ipcc report highlights the high cost of nuclear energy and its small contribution to combating the climate crisis.
madam president, well first of all, it’s a pity that the council is not here, because the member states are the ones that have agreed to the paris agreement and that are legally bound to take action. nonetheless, we need to focus on what we as the eu can do. and sorry for you being the only commissioner here, but the commission is not doing enough. why do we not use the power of the eu for the common agricultural policy to have an agriculture policy that is protecting the climate and the biodiversity? why do you keep speaking about it but are not acting? why do we not use the power of the eu with the biggest single market to use trading agreements for the better, for the climate and for biodiversity? why, again, is the commission not acting? we hear too much and we see too little. and honestly, this is just frustrating for me, for a whole generation, because we focus on the future. the question of the climate change is the question of how a society will live in future. the question of biodiversity is if we will live in future, and the current generation in power is just doing everything to ignore the point, and we as a future generation get anxiety of it and have a fear of the future. and that is on your back. sorry to say that to all of you.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear colleagues, i don’t need to repeat what you said. i think the goal is clear. we want cohesion throughout europe and that is of utmost importance. but the question i have is whether this is the right tool, if state aid really is the right tool to achieve it. because the problem that we have throughout europe is we have very rich member states and we have very poor member states. the problem lies in that even if we increase the limits for state aid possibilities, it does not mean that the member states have the money and the funding to help their companies with state aid. so we see that the majority of requests for state aid come, of course, from the richest member states who don’t necessarily need to support their companies in such a way. so my question is whether we cannot think of a better tool to organise state aid in a fair way so that not everybody gets the same possibility, but actually gets the possibility to invest into it, and that we have a common european approach to it, to fund and to support these member states that definitely need or these companies and these regions that need the support, but not based upon the income of their national member state, but based on european solidarity. that is the way how we did cohesion policy in the past, and that is the way that we should extend european cohesion policy in the future in order to bring cohesion to europe and a real cohesion.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the temporary crisis framework adopted by the european commission on 23 march last year and 9 march 2023 to enable member states to support the economy in a context of rising inflation, i would like to see the easing of state aid not only benefit some member states but ensure a process of cohesion and convergence that corrects regional imbalances while avoiding widening territorial gaps and distorting the single market. as i have said on several occasions, i think it is essential to work on an amendment to the de minimis regulation to give more certainty to certain structural measures already authorised under the state aid scheme and financed by cohesion policy, because the territories which suffer from serious disadvantages and above all which have to reduce an economic gap with other national realities have additional costs which translate into a lack of competitiveness for enterprises and of attractiveness for the creation or establishment of new large and medium-sized enterprises. the economic, covid, energy, inflation and climate crises have in fact delayed the less developed regions and in a so-called transition phase, not to mention the mountainous, insular, sparsely populated and rural territories. many regions of the european union are also at risk of falling into a development trap. i therefore think that it is necessary to provide for the deduction from the deficit calculation of the national resources allocated to cohesion measures, in order to ensure a real additionality of resources. because the state aid issue, also in the light of the actions taken by international competitor states, such as the united states, with the implementation of the ira, requires a timely and shared response from europe, also taking into account the widely unequal distribution of state subsidies within the union, and above all the disparity in the fiscal space. this approach will be essential not only to safeguard the integrity of the internal market but also to strengthen the competitiveness of our industrial and productive system.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission has already made a number of proposals. the reformed eu aid is on the table. yes, they will be able to promote environmentally friendly technologies. we can now increase investment in training, because in many places there is hardly anyone left who can install the new environmental technology. and last but not least, it is important for us that we can now regulate energy prices by exempting subsidies. but if we consider that the lion's share of state aid goes to germany and france, the good deed quickly turns to the contrary and can promote economic and social inequality. this is counterproductive and requires that aid, as well as eu structural support, be channelled more into weaker regions and municipalities. where emigration and deindustrialisation are dominant, settlement strategies are crucial. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to finance the construction of a new railway line.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. how much can the state, how much can our local communities support financially? that is the central question of this debate. the european union has done a lot in the areas of digitalisation, social, environment and climate change. we all know that our local authorities, with their important investments on the ground, are indispensable if we are to achieve these ambitious goals. but it is also our communities that are facing a host of challenges: inflation, the aftermath of the coronavirus pandemic, rising construction and energy costs, skills shortages and the current refugee movements. the list is long, and our communities are not having an easy time of it. let me say this directly: we stand with our communities. the european union is committed to the goal of creating equal living conditions. this means that no region can be left behind. and what that means for me is that the countryside, even in the stronger areas, has to become the future. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the sector. how much can the state, how much can our local communities finance, be it for a local outdoor pool or for the sustainability of regional businesses? it is therefore long overdue to adapt aid law and to make things easier for our local authorities. our efforts are having an effect. the de minimis aid is to be increased from eur 200 000 to eur 275 000. an important first step if everything is to become more expensive and local support. but that is far from enough. since 2005 the rates have not been adjusted, so we are calling for the rate to be raised a little higher and perhaps to be accompanied by an inflation compensation. the feedback from the local authorities from the consultations shows that we need higher thresholds and, above all, less bureaucracy.
rapporteur. – madam president, i think we can see that the colleagues from the far-right managed to get a lot of speaking time to spread their poisonous agenda, nativist agenda on migration. but what i have to say, what surprises me is that they didn’t open actually all the laws, because my law is not part of the asylum pact. this law is part of the talent and skills package. it’s about attracting international talent to europe. so i do not understand why you challenge this, because this is actually about the fact that we are losing workforce: 50 million people over the next 30 years. our start-ups, our hotels, our companies need talent. we need to find ways to be more attractive. this bill actually allows permanent residents to be able to work all across the european union. when you come as a migrant to the eu you don’t face one labour market, you face 27 markets. and even under trump, the us was more attractive to international talent than the eu. why? because if you get fired in new york, you can find a job in san francisco. when you want to find a new job, when you work in sofia or berlin, you have to go through the whole procedure of getting a visa again. so let’s vote in favour of this bill. i thank my shadows and i thank you for the strong support for this bill.
for the greens/efa group mr president, more than half of the cultural objects trafficked are in europe. it's not by chance. this is the result of common history. when we talk about the illegal trade in cultural goods, we have to talk about issues such as colonialism, its consequences and the restitution of cultural goods - issues that are being sought in vain in the european commission's action plan. it is important to start where the tradition of the illegal trade in cultural goods has its most recent origins. it is not for nothing that most of the illegal goods on the market come from countries that were once colonies of europe. today, hundreds of thousands of 'looted' and 'robbed' art objects, as experts call them, are in european museums or private collections. these goods are also the subject of illicit trade, although representatives of the countries of origin have been demanding their return for decades. this is also true of all countries ruled by a foreign power. i would therefore like to emphasise the african cultural assets, which are particularly important. for several decades, there have been calls for the return of cultural property. in 1973, the president of the democratic republic of congo, then zaire, made a resounding appeal to the united nations for the return of artworks stolen during the belgian colonial period under leopold ii. the report on restitution, published in 2018 by two researchers, emphasises that it is first necessary to identify the works of art in the different states. the second is to determine how this restitution can be facilitated and accelerated by legislation at european level, especially since 85% of african cultural heritage is outside the continent. some european union countries, such as germany, france and belgium, have timidly begun to return looted art. france has given senegal the sword of el hadj oumar tall, a prominent resistance fighter during the french invasion and the religious leader of the tidjaniyya brotherhood. belgium has returned a tooth belonging to patrice lumumba, a national hero and former prime minister of the present-day republic of congo, whose body, dissolved in acid, was never found. recently, the german foreign minister presented nigeria with the famous benin bronzes. these symbolic gestures are a first step. we need a european solution because the looted works are in all the countries of the union. it is therefore necessary to create a joint european institute for research into the provenance of all these works of art, in which scientists from different continents would work together. this hidden chapter in european history needs to be brought up to date. history needs to be revised and it needs to address the sensitive, the annoying issues. it is also important that restitution is not made in exchange for other requirements motivated by political considerations. let us look at the looted objects with a sense of complacency and hope that the action plan could play a significant role in the return of the artworks.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not thank you, especially for your generous negotiating skills this afternoon. i'm not gonna put her through any trouble, don't worry. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission's plan to regulate trade in cultural goods and to combat surpluses is being discussed today and, as usual on thursday afternoon, we are in broad agreement. we agree on the importance of detecting and prosecuting crime and, where appropriate, strengthening law enforcement and judicial capacity. theft and trafficking should be prevented in all cases, but if they do occur, those responsible should be traced and brought to justice consistently and without regard to the person's reputation. we all agree on that. but what many of us don't realize is that the biggest illegal trade in cultural property is happening right in front of our eyes, by those who claim to protect cultural property. just two examples: in bristol, england, a statue of a slave trader was pulled down from its pedestal and thrown into the harbor. here in belgium, a statue of king leopold ii was damaged and then removed. dear colleagues, the western world is witnessing a crusade against its own cultural heritage. statues, paintings and books are being moved to dusty archives, others even destroyed. books are rewritten because they don't fit with the current ideology and don't meet today's standards of political correctness. the biggest problem is that the destruction of our cultural heritage is being carried out or ordered by the very governments and institutions that are supposed to protect and preserve our cultural heritage. the destruction of cultural heritage is not just about the loss of material objects, it is about the loss of our history, our identity and our culture. we try to erase our past, and in doing so, we effectively erase the essence of who we are and what has shaped us and our culture -- both good and bad. my dear colleagues, we usually learn from our mistakes. but if we hide, deny, or make our mistakes disappear, then we, and especially our children, have no chance to learn from those mistakes. we should stand by our cultural heritage and should be proud of the good and preserve it. not just for us, but for future generations.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the risk is that we lose sight of the big picture. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. the reform of eu debt rules is not simply about how much eu countries can borrow. the eu is in an economically tense situation. social divisions are increasing, and many countries have seen their infrastructure wear and tear. as poverty increases, we need more investment in social infrastructure. we have all seen, especially in the corona pandemic, the dire consequences of not investing enough in our health system. the development of renewable energy, better and faster european rail links, a socially balanced restructuring of our industries. if we want to achieve europe's climate goals, we need to invest almost 500 billion euros a year in green transition. according to a study by the new economics foundation, the proposed law will leave half of the eu member states without sufficient opportunities to invest in green conversion. these are the major issues that we are talking about here today. there are no debts on a dead planet. it is not a generation-friendly fiscal policy when strict budgetary rules are driving europe to wear and tear and the climate crisis is destroying our planet. we need a stability pact that is economically, socially and environmentally stable. and to be quite frank, the european commission's proposal is not strong enough to do that. they are taking small steps, but we greens will fight to make sure that we go all the way together.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when the eu created a single currency, it had two options: either a soft currency with high inflation and a central bank that simply prints money to keep export industries competitive and keep highly indebted member states from bankruptcy, or a hard currency like the deutsche mark with low inflation and a central bank that stands firmly behind savers and pensioners and forces the government to adopt prudent fiscal policies. with the adoption of the maastricht rules and an inflation target of below 2%, the choice seemed clear at the time. but 30 years after maastricht and after three mediterranean presidents of the ecb, we have double-digit inflation rates, stiff banks and record debt levels. almost every state is flouting the maastricht rules. everyone in europe wanted a german currency, but no one wanted german budgetary management. after draghi successfully liquefied the euro, the commission and the ecb are now calling for the strict budgetary rules to be abandoned. minister lindner is completely isolated in the council. the role of the new germany in the new eu should be clear: shut up and pay up! it is becoming increasingly clear that germany needs to rethink its relationship with the eu. i fear mr lindner will surrender. today is may 9th, by the way.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. half the world is wondering if the germans are crazy. and the answer is yes, because germany suffers from the helper syndrome and belongs on the couch. for 15 years, germany has been trying to save everything and everyone. you seem to have saved the euro, but at the expense of monetary stability and at the expense of the savers and pensioners who are financing your record inflation and debt. your world climate rescue was called the world's stupidest energy policy by the wall street journal, because with a share of 1.3 percent of global co2 emissions, germany cannot save the climate, but you are ruining the german middle class and our citizens with unaffordable electricity, heating costs and forced renovation. those who cannot afford it will buy their long-saved home at a much lower price thanks to u.s. real estate funds. you want to save migrants, too. each of them, plus the five, six, seven million people from the orient and africa who have been in the country for the last ten years, costs us an average of 700 000 euros a year for their entire lives. africa is creating a new germany of 85 million people every 18 months: do you want to save them too? and finally, your policy towards russia: together with merkel, you led germany to an energy dependence on russia, which is, after all, cheap. then big brother just blew up the nord stream pipeline. you persist in refusing any intelligence and almost monthly impose new sanctions against russia that harm us more than russia. and you're supplying weapons that will help the west prolong the war, but ukraine cannot win it. the german government and the eu suffer from the help syndrome, but they are not helping anyone, they are harming themselves. the psychoanalyst alfred adler identified the causes of helper syndrome as feelings of inferiority. the helper tries to play up his own problems by turning to those who are worse off. he doesn't care if his help is effective, because it would stop him from putting his own inferiority in perspective. patient germany belongs in therapy to overcome his low self-esteem and to free himself from the helping syndrome, because the bill for your pathological altruism is unfortunately not paid by your government, but by our citizens.
i have to say, madam president, the brutal war of aggression by russia against ukraine, the chinese aggression against taiwan, the effects of climate change - mr weber, we are in a time of geopolitical turmoil. it is therefore high time that europe rebuilt itself so that future generations can live in security and freedom, in peace and prosperity. european sovereignty and resilience must not remain empty shells. let's fill it with life, with innovative ideas and consistent implementation. independence from russian oil, the chip act, the critical raw materials act - these are all steps in the right direction to strengthen the sovereignty and competitiveness of our continent. but the road to greater european sovereignty is not a sprint. if we don't stop halfway, we'll show our fitness and ignite the european turbo. europe needs more globalisation, more trade agreements with democratic partners, not backward protectionism. thank you, mr. chancellor, for those clear words. let us give a boost to the backbone of our prosperity, the european smes. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. we must remain open to technology, including electric fuels, mrs reintke, and only then will we be able to achieve a climate-neutral europe. let us support research and development, for example fusion energy for cheap co2-free electricity in europe. it takes technology leadership again; we have to be first somewhere again. for all this, for the strategic geopolitical realignment of the european union, we need a strong and responsible germany, which will courageously advance the common cause, as it does in preserving the stability pact. you are right, mr chancellor, we must use the great challenges as an opportunity, not shrink back. let us make europe fit for the future through cooperation and dynamism, for the common cause in the service of the people. because, madam president, we are committed to them, not to political parties or ideologies.
(mike schultz, opening remarks) ... events, the pandemic, economic uncertainty, the rising cost of living, irregular migration, the war in ukraine have led us to rethink the role of the european union and the role of germany in this union. it has been shown that european citizens often turn to their national governments in times of crisis. i would therefore like to stress that we must consider very carefully whether we should transfer more national responsibilities to european institutions if we are to have a stronger geopolitical focus, and we should not be ashamed to protect the interests of the federal republic of germany from a federalist idea. i would urge you, mr chancellor, to reconsider your support for qualified majority voting on foreign and security policy matters. these questions are far too important to be left to others. i feel that there is a growing anti-german sentiment in this house, but also in europe as a whole, and i believe that the realistic future for germany is to be a strong member of a european union which is a union of equal member states, free to come together for the common economic good.
i have to say, madam president, welcome to the federal chancellery. the world is changing. they coined the term 'turning point' and we must make it a reality as the european union. we must not forget that the european union is a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe. this applies internally: we must make the transition socially just, for the people in all the member states to whom we are committed, and with responsibility for this planet. and we must recognize them now. climate change is in full swing. but also outward. i am very grateful for the comments on the western balkans, on the relations with africa and south america. we must not repeat the mistakes of the past. we want to have a relationship on equal footing. we want a global just transition, a global just transition. and i thank you that my, that our homeland is making a strong contribution to this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. as the last speaker, you have the privilege of having a little bit of an overview. what about the speech here today on europe day? i must say that if we leave aside the noise and self-reflection, we will have a clear and unambiguous commitment to enlargement and reform, no more 'this way' and that is what we need. we are working very hard in parliament - you mentioned it, mr chancellor - on a proposal for treaty amendments. this gives us a new impetus, and i hope you will join us in the council in calling for a convention, because many people have mentioned schuman today: europe will be built by concrete action and by solidarity in action. we are delivering here in parliament, we are counting on franco-german initiatives, on broad support, and then we really have the chance to act and not just talk about reforming europe.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear colleagues, every day, every week counts for ukraine, desperately fighting against the russian invasion. supplying ammunition to ukraine is urgent. we should therefore also deal with the proposal to ramp up industrial production of ammunition urgently. therefore, the epp group requests and supports an urgent procedure along rule 163 here in parliament. asap – the name of the act brought forward by the commission, the act in support of ammunition production – is a well-chosen acronym. i think we have to ramp up european production of the ammunition that is urgently needed in support of ukraine in the war launched by russia, but also for europe itself. in that sense, the suggested eur 500 million support for short-term ammunition production via asap is welcome in the epp. we strongly support this effort. the eu member states and nato partners have shown a great willingness to stand by ukraine in the war, and have – individually and together – donated and financed an impressive amount of defence equipment. but we need more cooperation in europe. we all understand that supporting ukraine right now is also ensuring our own security in the long term. asap is timely, it is needed and it should be pointing to the future common eu defence efforts. not all elements are to our unconditional liking, but let us begin to work. ukraine needs it. we need it for our future.
chair itre. – madam president, it will be much shorter than this. so the itre committee supports the request made by the epp and renew groups to apply the urgent procedure laid down in rule 163 for the commission proposal for a regulation on asap. this proposal is about reinforcing union industry in the defence area and it is clearly important to adopt this proposal as quickly as possible, given the current state of play in the industry, and urgently ramp up its production capacity. mr ehler also made many other arguments that are extremely relevant. what i should add is that we should also encourage the council to work very quickly so that an agreement between the two co-legislators can be endorsed at the july plenary. itre – as the committee responsible – stands ready to support this procedure fully. earlier this morning, the coordinators decided that each group will appoint a member to a negotiating team in order to immediately start assessing the proposal. and then, after our first vote in plenary and the referral back, itre will stand ready to immediately start negotiations with the council.
rapporteur. – madam president, colleagues, according to rule 59(4) of our rules of procedure, i would like to ask you for a vote to refer back to the responsible committees for interinstitutional negotiations. and thanks to all the colleagues for this very nice birthday present for me.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union's accession to the geneva act of the lisbon convention on appellations of origin and geographical indications will make it possible for all protected products to be protected at international level. this is already the case for some european products from the seven member states which had already joined the geneva act, and for others not yet. the protection of designations of origin and geographical indications has a real added value. it promotes traditional know-how and has a positive impact on growth, employment and the competitiveness of enterprises, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. producers benefit from legal protection of their geographical indications in global markets and from increased legal clarity in the event of conflicts. consumers benefit from the certainty that they are buying a genuine product with specific characteristics, which is provided by a geographical indication. for example, if a thuringian sausage protected by a geographical indication is bought in a third country, the buyer should also be sure that it is a genuine thuringian sausage from thuringia in germany. and secondly, when we shop in the eu, we should be sure that a coffee that is protected as a geographical indication from colombia is actually from colombia. today's vote is based on a ruling by the european court of justice which allows the eu and the seven member states to join. i would like to thank you all very, very much for making it possible for this vote to take place so quickly that the deadline set by the court of justice can also be respected.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. what do le pen, panzeri and nigel farage have in common? all three are in the so-called voluntary pension fund of the european parliament. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament. the bad news is that it was not changed or abolished when the eu pension was introduced in 2019, and it was not even charged back then. if you look at the list of the 900 former members who are still in this fund, it's a little uncomfortable. there are, mr hahn, for example, four of your current colleagues, 21 members of this house, a number of british lords and also farage, le pen and panzeri. and the european union, this parliament, is now supposed to pay a luxury pension to its enemies and to those who could not leave the eu fast enough. dear madame le pen, you have contributed for five years, you receive for this more than 1 400 euros per month in addition to your pension, and this for life. for your father, it's over 7 000 euros per month plus his pension. these figures really need to be measured. the average pension in france is 1 272 euros. for this, the french and the french have worked all their lives. and you, madame le pen, are counting on a supplementary pension for five years of work at the european parliament, paid with the money that was earmarked for the constituency bureau. your self-proclamation as the advocate of the petit gens is a joke. a politician who never misses an opportunity to attack the european union, and whose people, the members of parliament here, want to destroy the eu, now want parliament to save this fund from bankruptcy with 300 million euros from the taxpayers. ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow that to happen. we must ensure that every individual case is examined now, and since members already have sufficient public pension entitlements, no more taxpayer money should be poured into these pension funds.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. today, as every year, we are doing one of our noblest tasks: we are debating the budgetary discharge for the 2021 financial year for the eu's now more than 50 institutions. by the way, have you ever noticed that every year we have more institutions that we have to do this process of discharge for? i find this development very worrying; but that's not the point. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank the court of auditors for supporting us in this. we do not discuss whether or not these institutions have implemented our respective political agendas. at least we in the committee on budgetary control believe that we are not having politically charged discussions about the eu's objectives in this procedure, but are confining ourselves to retrospective budgetary control. i was sorely lacking this insight two years ago, when the discharge procedure was being held, when we debated the discharge for the frontex border guard agency. it is clear that you have learned the lesson, ladies and gentlemen, because today you propose to discharge frontex. and i can agree. because frontex is just trying to do their job. then we should not criticize and punish them for it. this is also true of other institutions such as the court of auditors and the ombudsman. the fact that they have exposed the discrepancies in the procurement of vaccines in connection with the commission president, as my colleague has just said, which has led to a procedure before the european public prosecutor's office, does not mean that these bodies should be subjected to more rigorous scrutiny than others which may be more politically oriented. i have already said it in this house and i am happy to repeat it: if we did not have the court of auditors and the ombudsman, we would have to invent them, because we need these institutions.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, president of the european court of auditors, the 2021 commission discharge was a special one, as we start looking for the first time at how one eu member state spends its recovery and resilience fund. despite the volume of the discharge, as we look at the spending of eur 170 billion, it is more a dialogue of the deaf rather than a constructive exchange. error rate is still above the 2% target, and for the 27th time the court of auditors is unable to grant a positive statement to the implementation of the eu budget. the financial sustainability is at risk. the outstanding budgetary commitments are now more than eur 340 billion. yet not everything is in the numbers; key issues for us are transparency and rule of law. that is what we owe to our taxpayers. it is the commission’s primary task as the guardian of the treaties to protect these norms and values. to put it simply: no eu money if no eu standards. the commission never seriously used its tool to uphold the rule of law across the union. if we compromise on the fundamentals, then the whole european house will fall apart. the first step against hungary must not become the fig leaf for inaction excuses, but a booster that will strongly show our determination. no eu money if no eu standards. then we have another crucial occurring challenge: the list of all final beneficiary. the commission needs to set up a system that allows to see the complete list: who gets how much and how often. that is how to find conflict of interests, land grabbing, misuse of agri and cohesion funds as we witness the growing oligarch structures abusing eu funds in some of the member states. it is not in the interest of either us here in the european parliament or taxpayers’ interest to create the next oligarch generation with the nextgenerationeu money.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. yes, the istanbul convention again. a tool that should be available to combat violence against women. what was intended as a politically correct and important signal against domestic violence or violence against women turns out once again to be just a poster for another fantastic commercial for a whole potpourri of ideological nonsense from the house of this pseudo-democracy. the fact that the eu is not even afraid to use the alleged fight against violence against women as an instrument to curtail the sovereignty of the member states is hardly worth the excitement. the european union is a dictatorial superstate. but to use violence against women as an instrument to implement ideological absurdities is something that the victims of domestic violence can only see as the very slap in the face that this house claims to be fighting. the perpetrators - usually imported wannabe macho men - unfortunately do not leave their misogynistic views at the borders as easily as their passports. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report and for the work he has done. the commission has already made a substantial contribution by preventing millions of young people from crossing the border illegally on the basis of an archaic image of women as violent men. the protection of the territory of a state was until recently the natural right of every sovereign state. but this house doesn't have that idea. no, the most effective protection of women against violence that can be imagined must unfortunately be lagging behind the tolerance-drunkenness of the world-changers gathered here. but, ladies and gentlemen, next year too this european parliament will be celebrating its failure to protect you in its speeches of concern.
i have to say, madam president, we are so slowly approaching the end of the debate and it is very, very hard for me to bear the amount of nonsense, ladies and gentlemen, that we have actually had to listen to for about an hour. we're really getting our asses handed to us again. we would have no idea how to define gender -- our gender. we wouldn't know what violence, assault, verbal violence, psychological violence, emotional violence or even - yes, you have no idea - what that means, and we couldn't talk about it. i think that shows how important this debate is, how important this resolution is, how important this decision is for tomorrow, that it should be voted on accordingly. no means no. there is no ambiguity. waltraud schoppe was a very well-known woman in 1983, the first green member of the bundestag to speak in the bundestag on the subject of marital rape. she was laughed at. in 1997 marital rape was made a criminal offence in germany. i think for a lot of men today, it's still a big deal that there's something like that in their worldview. violence doesn't start with a slap on the wrist. violence ends with death, with femicide. that's part of the truth, too. i am glad to have strong women in this room, that we will vote together tomorrow, in solidarity with our male colleagues at our side - i would also like to mention them, dear colleagues.
madam president, dear colleagues, we see it, we feel it: women’s rights are under attack all over the world. and it’s generations of women before us that fought hard for the rights we have today, and i and so many women and allies here today, make clear that we are not going to be the generation that stands by while a wave of conservative and right wing extremists try to wash away our rights. because it’s not only happening in some faraway and undemocratic country, it’s happening right inside our very own european union. we see that one in three women have experienced violence and we see member states on the same side wanting to deny women their eu-guaranteed fundamental rights. i don’t know what’s so hard to believe about the fact that fundamental citizens’ rights, that women’s rights are human rights. and to be quite honest, it makes me very furious to hear this nonsense propaganda coming from the right side of this house about women’s rights and the istanbul convention today. because the istanbul convention is the basic minimum that i expect as a commitment to safety and well-being from the state, as a citizen, as a female citizen. and it’s a shame that not all eu countries have ratified the istanbul convention. and i’m very proud that the european union steps in to ratify this, to at least safeguard what can be done on a european level, a harmonised response to this gender-based violence, that we’re going to see prevention of this, that we’re going to see protection as female citizens and that we’re going to see punishment of the perpetrators.
madam president, the istanbul convention is the first instrument in europe to establish legal standards to combat violence against women. this debate on the ratification of the istanbul convention, as we celebrate europe day, is a historic event which will go down in the annals of our history. tomorrow is a big day. we therefore welcome this legal act, which has been ratified by the majority of member states. only six states have refused to ratify the istanbul convention and are thus violating the rights of their citizens. i was like, "wow, finally!" the european union, after 12 years, ratifies the istanbul convention, which protects the fundamental rights of all women and girls, including those who are marginalized or of different origins. the istanbul convention will be for everyone. there will be no questions of religion, color, or anything at all. it will protect us because violence is a universal scourge. it is violence that takes different forms: genital mutilation, forced marriage, rape, harassment... all of these are forms that affect women. and now the perpetrators must be punished. the educational dimension of this convention will have a positive impact in the fight against violence. we will ensure that we can achieve zero tolerance for violence.
for the greens/efa group madam president, the fierce fighting between the army and the paramilitaries vying for power in sudan has turned the country into a real inferno. the conflict is rooted in the rivalry between two former allies who are using the war to satisfy their personal ambitions for power. in the committee on development we have discussed the many humanitarian consequences of this new conflict which has already caused the death of more than 400 people and plunged the country into chaos. silver, or rather gold, is the lifeblood of the war, with the discovery in 2012 of gold deposits in the djebel amer, which then arrived just in time to replace the oil of south sudan declared independent and provide the state with the necessary revenues. however, the blame is laid on the poor safety conditions in gold mines, as well as the poor quality of the ore, corruption and smuggling. in such an atmosphere, the already precarious humanitarian situation was considerably worsened by the intense and unrelenting fighting. the deterioration of the situation is marked by the increase in the number of civilian deaths, the destruction of health and communication facilities. a quarter of the population suffers from acute hunger. nearly 4 million people are displaced, 300,000 inside sudan, and 100,000 to neighbouring countries such as chad, the central african republic and egypt, according to the un, which expects eight times as many refugees. among the refugees there is a considerable number of women. this exodus could destabilize the neighboring countries. hospitals and humanitarian organisations were not spared from bombing and looting. many hospitals have had to close due to the proximity of the fighting or the inability of staff to travel to health facilities. the fighting is raging in the capital and, in view of the need, it is urgent that the calls for a ceasefire be respected so that the operators...
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner, colleagues, let me also start with paying homage to all the innocent victims of the recent mass shootings that have profoundly shaken us all. it is indeed unprecedented in serbia’s history, and we all feel terribly saddened by that. the eu stands with you in this difficult moment, and i am convinced that the government will ensure that every person can feel safe and secure again. dear colleagues, i have often been in serbia and unfortunately, despite many efforts, serbia is not much more democratic than it has been before. it’s a country that still lacks genuine democratic standards and fair elections, as well as freedom of expression and political culture. i would like to remind mr vučić and the serbian government to deliver on two things: one, the domestic reforms. nothing else can replace our request for reaching the highest european standards, rule of law, media freedom, free market competition and the fight against corruption. this is the key, not because europe asks for that, but because the lives of serbian citizens will improve. two, the dialogue with kosovo. it needs to be centred on the people, from finding all missing persons to ensuring that kosovo serbs are not the puppets in anyone’s hands. serbia needs to close the kosovo chapter and move on from the past. these two points are crucial for serbia to become a true eu candidate that can join the union. there are indeed progressive forces in serbia fighting firmly for our common values. our task is to make sure that they are heard, protected and have international support, as they are the guarantee of a european serbia.
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner, colleagues and dear citizens of kosovo, i am very much honoured to present this year’s european parliament report that looks at the reforms and achievements of kosovo and the reforms which are accomplished. i was giving these speeches on kosovo reports every year since 2019, hoping i can finally say ‘happy freedom of movement’. it is not a request or hope anymore; it’s a reality. as of january next year, kosovo citizens will be able to travel across europe without any visa requirement, invitation letters, costly procedure and queuing in lines. europe is finally open its doors. last year was a challenging one for everyone as we saw the horrors of war returning to europe. kosovo’s government, knowing well these horrors, demonstrated full solidarity with ukraine by aligning with eu sanctions and even hosting ukrainian journalists, for which i would like to deeply thank them. our report only touches the surface of challenges and issues that are ahead of kosovo. yet it clearly underlines successes and what needs to be undertaken in the areas of democracy, fight against corruption, organised crime, energy and the environment. so, i will only outline three major processes: the rule of law, freedom of the media, eu—led dialogue and the energy transition. kosovo keeps proving its democratic capacities by having a pluralistic political landscape, which is demonstrated on free and fair elections. the media landscape is diverse also compared to other states in the region, but still it is important that journalists remain independent. significant results have been achieved in the areas of the fight against corruption and organised crime across kosovo. rule of law reforms need to be continued in line with the venice commission opinion and eu standards. yet, the rule of law means equality for all. that’s why the international community has repeatedly asked the government of kosovo to implement the constitutional court judgment regarding the visoki decani monastery. dear colleagues from kosovo, an essential element on kosovo’s eu integration path is certainly the dialogue between kosovo and serbia, which conditions the eu membership of both countries. the signing of the brussels and ohrid agreements in march this year and the subsequent declaration on missing persons are excellent signals, but we expect the implementation of these previous agreements. it is particularly important to keep the dialogue at the highest level in order to secure that the situation in the north of kosovo remains stable. i ask the kosovo serbs to return to the institution and the government of kosovo to offer an open hand and start a dialogue with its citizens in mitrovica, zubin potok, leposavić and zvečan. here, eulex rules in the last month was the crucial guarantee for peace and security in the north. and we need eulex reinforcement for the prevention and protection until the full return to institutions and police occurs. finding a way to accommodate the dialogue obligation within kosovo’s legal order will lead one big step closer to the end of the dialogue and finalisation of the process with mutual recognition. finally, environmental protection must become a priority for kosovo. without the full integration of the western balkans in our green and energy transition plans, our co2 goals won’t be accomplished. this must be a clear priority for the eu and that is why we have created the green agenda for the western balkans. now we should work on the implementation of the long—awaited energy strategy, which should lead to the decarbonisation of kosovo’s energy. i wish to see the fruits of our joint efforts in the future, since kosovo’s citizens deserve to live in a country that enjoys full international respect and a clear european integration perspective. in that respect, i warmly welcome the start of the admission procedure to the council of europe.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it was a very lively and very stimulating debate, and i think it is significant that today, on europe day, we are talking about the most pro-european country on the european continent. it is good that we are critical of the country - even if mrs daly does not see it that way. but kosovo really deserves our full support, and that is why it is important that we finally do our homework, not only on visa liberalisation, but also on all the other issues that have been raised in the debate here today. it is important that we continue to put pressure on spain, romania, cyprus, slovakia and greece to finally take the step, because the stability of our continent will depend on how we deal with our neighbours in the western balkans. of course, we must end the dialogue in a sensible way, but that is not all. the important thing is that we also make our history, and i know that as germans, we can say that because we have actually made a lot of this history. the countries of the western balkans must do the same if they are to achieve this stability, this lasting, peaceful stability. much has been said, and i would like to thank my shadow rapporteurs once again for their very constructive cooperation. it's been an incredible pleasure working with you and with you, because we've been on the same page. we quickly agreed on everything that unites us here when it comes to supporting kosovo. it is about our support for the eulex mission in the north of the country and in kosovo. it's about us establishing the rule of law. it is about continuing the fight against corruption and organised crime. the point is that we also need to build a private sector and support for the youth, for the next generation. we must not allow the young people who are well trained to be turned away from us and go to other countries, to the member states of the european union. we must ensure that prospects are created in kosovo, and we have made a good contribution to this with our report today.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, as we enter the european year of skills, it’s important to recognise the significance of the opportunity for member states to incentivise workers to upskill and reskill themselves in light of the just transition. member states utilise the available resources to empower persons and encourage employers to provide their workers with the tools they need to succeed. this includes providing paid trainings and allowing workers to participate in training during working hours. we, as greens, corrected the narrow focus on the lack of skilled workforce for management positions and expanded the scope to promoting upskilling and reskilling for all workers in all sectors. we also managed to include language on green skills for green quality jobs, stressed the need for jobs that allow workers to get skilled while still receiving pay from their employers. also, we managed to have one recital on the importance of upskilling and reskilling. unfortunately, the improvements on migration, the specifics on gender and green skills did not survive the negotiations. the swedish council presidency was reluctant on social dialogue and rather focusing on a broader positive impact on society, on democracy. but let us continue to work towards promoting quality jobs together.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. consumers are increasingly focusing on sustainability. they want to be part of the green transition, the transition to a circular economy. the law we are voting on this week sets the framework for this. for example, a new update slows down the functionality of my smartphone to the point where it's just not useful anymore. not only is this expensive and annoying to consumers, it's also really bad for the climate and consumes a lot of resources. there's a calculation behind it, because a built-in expiration date leads to a new purchase. this has got to stop. the production of e-waste can no longer be a business model. scrap products are not part of the european internal market. i am glad that the european parliament has made it so clear in this law that practices of premature wear and tear should be blacklisted. they should be banned so that consumers can make sustainable choices at the counter. we are also introducing new information requirements, first and foremost a repair index which will show how easy it is to repair the mobile phone. so it's reasonable to spend a few extra dollars if the phone has a longer life. this dossier is a real success. once again, my heartfelt congratulations to our imco reporter biljana borzan and all the shadows.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 11 may 2023. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item on the agenda is the explanations of vote.
the debate is closed.
the next meeting will be held tomorrow, wednesday, may 10, 2023, at 9:00 a.m. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the minutes of this sitting will be submitted to parliament for approval tomorrow after the vote.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear colleagues, we greens will vote in favour of edirpa tomorrow. we will vote in favour of edirpa because we hope that it is a small step ahead to supply ukraine with the equipment it urgently needs and because it may lead to a little more cooperation in the defence sector. but, frankly said, it’s just a small patch on a big oozing wound for a fragmented and inefficient defence sector. to keep our citizens safe and to support our allies such as ukraine, we need member states to finally move from the current protectionism to a truly european defence with cooperation starting from raw materials over joint procurement to joint export control. we also need to move from the current secretive deals in the council to open debates on defence in the european parliament. european defence needs european debate and it needs european scrutiny and this has to happen in this house. so, for four times now we have given away our rights of scrutiny with edf, with edidp, with asap and with edirpa. the ecr, epp and renew gave away easily the delegated acts and i hope this will finally change next time in the interest of the security of our european citizens and that of our allies.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we all know that transparency is a prerequisite for democracy, it is like oxygen for it to work. and that is why many citizens are rightly calling for it more strongly. my report on the amendment of the rules of procedure proposes new rules. and that affects the way we work here in this house. i would like to thank all my colleagues once again, and in particular the legal service, who made it possible for us to come to these amendments together. because at the beginning of the year the president of the house presented a 14-point plan and gave us the task of implementing these changes in the rules of procedure by the summer. we did it under pressure. it was a really big challenge for everyone. but we now have a proposal that really does bring about concrete changes, even though there have been very different ambitions on how to implement these 14 objectives. we will be completely transparent about the side business. if you earn more than eur 5 000 a year, you can start from the sum actually for everything. we believe that being a member of the european parliament is not a side job. and that anyone who is still engaged in paid activities must continue to disclose this transparently in the future, namely in the total amount per year. we are strengthening the definition of conflict of interest and introducing the requirement that in future you have to make a declaration before you can become rapporteur or rapporteur or take on certain functions such as vice-president or vice-president or quaestor, committee chairman, you have to make a declaration of this kind. i think this is a milestone because it is about showing that you are acting in the public interest and putting that at the centre. we're introducing more transparency requirements for appointments. that's important too. there were always some grey areas, and it was not clear whether i should say this or not. we have simplified this and have also included exceptions where such a designation could put others at risk. we also want to see stricter rules for friendship groups, these informal friendship groups. we have also set out clear rules here, so that it is clear that they are not acting on behalf of parliament. they also have to disclose how they are financed, etc. the commission has also been very active in this area. we have just had an advisory committee, the so-called advisory committee, which is already in place. we want to strengthen it, especially for people who have questions (if i have a conflict of interest here, i can talk to people in confidence, consult with them), but who can also take action, which is not the case yet, just when there are appropriate indications, and who will actually support and strengthen the culture of trust and the culture of transparency. and this is all the more important because we know that there will be no real ethics agency in the near future. yes, these changes are ambitious. but they're really going to continue a cultural shift in transparency. this is not about bans - some people think so - but about measures to create more transparency and accountability. democracy takes place in the light of day, not in the dark corners of the night. i would like to thank all my colleagues once again and i would like to say with goethe's last words: more light.
blue-card question. – mr benifei, i just have a very short question, which is in regards to the freedom of the mandate. people who criticise the new rules often say it would somehow infringe on the freedom of the mandate. can you understand that argument?
madam president, colleagues, it’s really high time that we come forward with this report. it has been months since qatargate happened and we haven’t done much. so i’m very happy that now with the majority of the groups, we actually come – thank you, gabi – forward with this report. i just want to say it very clearly – transparency does not conflict with the freedom of the mandate. we have nothing to hide and we have a lot of trust to win back. so it’s good that we show what kind of side income we earn, what kind of meetings we have, because we have nothing to hide, and how we spend our money, because we have nothing to hide. transparency is not in conflict with the freedom of the mandate. i am proud that i could contribute to a more transparent house, and i wish that we all vote in favour of the most important report that we will vote now. let’s live up to the trust that we need in this house because why should people follow laws if they don’t trust the process that actually makes them? let’s live up to it. let’s vote in favour of this report.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i think it shows that we have -- as i said at the beginning -- different levels of ambition when it comes to these rules. it is far too much for one side, far too little for the other. i think we have tried to find a really good common framework for the changes that we have to make, that we should make and that are also feasible: considered, actual and discussed. in fact, good rules cannot prevent corruption 100%. but what you can do is you can make it harder to do corruption, and that's by creating transparency and also by establishing a culture of transparency, you actually give the signal to the citizens that what we do is for the public and it's transparent. we don't really have anything to hide here. a colleague asked: "shouldn't we first analyze the weaknesses?" we have analysed the weaknesses and we have concrete answers in our report. i would like to say one thing: meetings with third countries did not previously have to be made transparent. we're going to do this now and really close a loophole that we have. i also thank mrs hübner for her experience of the advisory committee, which has shown that it is important to involve independent experts and that it is also possible and practised here to ensure confidentiality. these rules which we are now going to adopt are an important step, a next step, a great step also after the 14 points which must be put into practice. what you all stressed in the debate is that we have a very, very broad consensus on a large part of this change in the rules of procedure. we have a number of points which are interpreted differently. but that's the way it is with compromise, and that's the way it is with work. i would therefore appeal to everyone once again to support this report, to see it as a really important next step in the implementation of the directive. i would also like to quote mr de meo, the chairman of our committee, who said: 'this will strengthen the ep so that it can carry out its work freely and democratically.' and in fact we have always made sure that the freedom of the mandate is not affected. i believe that transparency and accountability really builds trust in democracy. we need that more than ever in these times. i would also like to thank you all for your concerns, but i would like to make an appeal: the majority is supported. take the report with you.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, allow me to thank you again for this debate and most of all for the work parliament put into this new consumer credit directive. it is a key step to achieving a high level of protection for european consumers taking out credit. it is also a crucial piece of legislation to ensure that businesses face more harmonised rules across member states. the commission stands ready to deploy all efforts to facilitate the transposition of this new piece of legislation to ensure that it can be implemented quickly and properly by all stakeholders.
the rapporteur. mr president, thank you again and thank you colleagues for all that you have said here today, because i think we can all agree that this is really just the beginning. we've been able to solve a lot of problematic things, like credit cards, like the right to be forgotten, but also only for a fraction of patients. i very much hope that this right will subsequently be applied in the new mortgage credit regulation or directive, where it is as important as it is for consumer credit. i sincerely hope that the next revision of the text will extend the right to be forgotten to many more diseases. i very much hope that we will be able to tackle, for example, crowdfunding, which unfortunately was not included in this directive at all, but it is up to my colleagues and us to make it work. to encourage our member states to implement this directive as soon as possible, to start using it. because the financial crisis, which is by no means over, but which is affecting every single country, every single citizen, shows us how desperate situations the citizens of the member states can get into, even if there is no legislation. it is now in our hands and in the hands of the commission to prove that what we have done here together will be implemented for the benefit of all consumers throughout the european union. and to conclude, let me say two more words of thanks. we all know that without our teams, the support teams, a lot of the things we do would not have been possible, and i would like to thank very much from this place the two people who worked on this document in my office, peter and martin, and our chair of the imco committee, anna cavazzini, who stood by when the political agreements were not always easy, and i think she was the one who also stood up for the consumer at the right moment. so thank you all very much and now it is up to us to get the member states to take this directive into their own hands as soon as possible and to use it in such a way that there is no more unfairness.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the debate on the report by marion walsmann, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of geographical indications of products of craft and industrial products and amending regulations (eu) 2017/1001 and (eu) 2019/1753 of the european parliament and of the council and council decision (eu) 2019/1754 (com ((2022) 0174 - c9-0148/2022 - 2022/0115 ((cod)) (a9-0049/2023).
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the report on the protection of geographical indications for handicrafts and industrial products is a real european success story. finally, we will be able to protect the many traditionally produced products such as porcelain, textiles or knives with an eu quality label. the report is a success story because it can be summarised under the heading 'efficiency'. efficient because we closed a loophole. this european quality label has been in place since 1992 for agricultural products such as thuringian roasted sausage, as well as for wine and spirits, but not for traditional handicraft products such as murano glasses or lauscha christmas balls. the approximately 400 products, mainly manufactured by small and medium-sized enterprises, are eligible for this new protection system. efficient because we are creating harmonisation across the eu, but it does not take away the protection acquired by products already protected at national level. 16 member states already have national protection systems, but this protection must be applied for from the national authorities in accordance with the relevant procedures. and then the protection is only for that member state. the new legislation will ensure that protection is granted in all member states with a single application. the national geographical indications protected shall continue to be protected. their national protection becomes european protection. producers do not have to reapply, but benefit directly from the new european protection system as soon as the member states notify the products to the eu commission. efficient because we are creating a streamlined application procedure whereby the outcome of the national application procedure is examined by the european union intellectual property office for completeness or for possible errors. and that will be possible electronically. as the applicants are small and mediumsized craft enterprises with limited resources, we have made special provisions for smes. you will benefit from lower fees for the national application phase. no fee is charged for the eu phase. the legislation is also efficient because we have reduced bureaucratic burdens to a minimum. a good example of this is the self-declaration. the manufacturer will be able to submit this to the competent authority as a standard procedure every three years in order to maintain continuity. the new protection is also effective because of its effectiveness. many products are now bought online, and that's why we've made sure that the protection is also online, and that the domain names of traditional products are protected as well. the controls carried out by the national authorities must also be extended to online trade. european protection is being extended to the international level as we adopt the relevant recommendation on the eu's accession to the geneva act of the lisbon convention on appellations of origin and geographical indications this week. the new legal system will give craftsmen greater legal protection for their products than they have today through trademark law. the registration of geographical indications is cheaper than the registration of trade marks and the holders of geographical indications do not have to pay for the renewal of their geographical indications. the geographical indications shall be entered only once. renewal as for the marks is not required. the producers thus receive a beneficial instrument of protection in addition to the existing trademark right. so, efficient and good.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of agricultural products by geographical indications has made it possible to enhance the know-how of our regions. let's be blunt: this is a great european success. it is time to extend this remarkable system of protection to handicraft and industrial products, and that is precisely what the walsmann report proposes to do, which i fully support. the extension will make use of local know-how in areas as varied as glassmaking, cutlery and porcelain manufacture. their protection will be all the more effective if the registration procedure is simplified by allowing the use of electronic registration or, where appropriate, directly before the european union intellectual property office. finally, to ensure that micro-enterprises and smes can benefit from the system, the report has the merit of suggesting that national authorities reduce their registration fees. i therefore support this text with confidence, certain that european companies will be able to seize the growth lever it provides them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner breton, the handicraft and industrial products typical of our territories are the flagship of european creativity and manufacturing culture. they are a treasure trove of knowledge and skills, often created by small and medium-sized enterprises, which are essential for the economic vitality of the territories, enhancing their image and tourist potential through the quality and uniqueness of their products. in my tuscany i think of the casentino, with its famous cloth, the volterra alabaster, or even the ceramics of montelupo fiorentino, and the list would be long. the new european law, which this parliament has been calling for for years, finally safeguards geographical indications also for handicraft and industrial products. protection hitherto provided for agri-food products only. the aim is to protect the european market through a simple, digitised procedure with minimal burdens. protection which can be extended to third markets by including the new geographical indications in trade agreements. with clear and reliable information on geographical origin and production techniques, it also sends an important signal to consumers, who increasingly appreciate the value of products linked to the territory. ladies and gentlemen, this is the europe of which we can be proud, the europe which is able to appreciate its excellence and to recognize the infinite wealth of its talents.
mr president hungary has a rich tradition of high-quality and reputable agricultural, food and craft products. this eu regulation is also a proposal that is relevant for businesses and for europe's cultural heritage. the new legislation supports the european protection system to protect not only agricultural products but also the origin of traditional handicrafts and industrial products such as porcelain, fish fingers or crab apples. in 2015, the hungarian government announced its programme for the protection of origin, which aims to significantly increase the number of hungarian food products with eu-recognised geographical indications. as a result of the programme, hungary has become a leader in the eu in the field of protected products. the new eu rules can be an effective complement to a successful national programme.
mr president, commissioner, i want to tell you that i am very happy that we have got to have it on the table and to vote, i hope, tomorrow, because i tried with your minister, commissioner from france, in 2013, to make such a proposal to the european commission at that time, because we found that porcelain in france and ceramics in romania were widely counterfeited and i really believe that there are many benefits. in addition to protecting producers, we also protect consumers from buying counterfeit products, we develop these professions and trades in rural areas and pass them on. we also have a cultural heritage and very, very important is that you have focused and emphasised, commissioner, that we are developing small and mediumsized enterprises, micro-enterprises. in my country, there are many rural artisans who make pottery, traditional folk costumes, which until now were totally unprotected. international protection is very important. and it is also important that in this regulation we simplify things as opposed to trademark protection. i hope we'll get to implement them.
mr president, i am very pleased with any proposal that can really help the regions and local producers, and i therefore welcome the fact that craft and industrial products can enjoy the same protection against copying as agricultural products, foodstuffs, wine and spirits. this protection can in turn lead to the strengthening of the competitiveness of traditional industries and crafts in the union, the creation of new jobs in these areas, the growth of local economies and a more rigorous protection of cultural heritage. however, the protection of geographical indications for industrial and craft products will not only help local producers, but also consumers across europe, who will be able to be sure that, for example, the glass they buy actually comes from the locality as it is named and is therefore of sufficient quality. finally, the agricultural-industrial balance is restored, and the protection of a geographical indication is extended to glassmakers, jewellers, cutters, tailors and a great many other craftsmen. i'm very happy about this proposal. i hope he can help them all in their business.
mr president, we all know today how we can label, for example, tokay wine, in which region it can be produced. just like we know which region can produce brandy. i am very pleased that we can discuss this today and that we will, i hope, be able to adopt this proposal tomorrow and that we will be able to use this geographical indication for products of an industrial or craft nature. we are thus protecting people's work, creating new jobs, promoting their intellectual property, and i am very pleased that, i hope, we will soon all know where in slovakia or where in the world, for example, modrans ceramics or karlovar porcelain, or our slovak beautiful embroidery or lace, can be produced and protected in this way. we are encouraging the handmade, traditional, regional handicrafts that these people have been making for centuries, and this protection of their origin and the geographical indication of these products can help to prevent counterfeiting, counterfeiting. and really, the people who will buy these products will know that they really come from the region as they are intended. and i am very pleased that we are finally going to adopt a proposal like the european union.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam rapporteur marion walsmann, on behalf of the european commission, i would like to thank you for the parliament's wholehearted support. we are at a crucial stage towards final adoption. in total, some 300 craft and industrial products will benefit from the new eu scheme. the regulation, as you all said, will be particularly important, especially for our smes, family businesses, micro and small enterprises, and medium-sized enterprises too. it should be noted that together they represent more than 80% of the producers of handicraft and industrial products. finally, this regulation will make it easier for our citizens to make informed choices. it will also help to promote and attract, and also to retain - as some of you have said this evening - skills and jobs in our regions of europe, by contributing to their economic development, including, of course, through tourism, and new forms of more inclusive tourism, in particular, as we know, for the less developed regions of the union or simply rural areas. as you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, geographical indications really play a strategic role, as you all have reminded us this evening. the extension of the consolidation of this regime is very good news for europe. i believe that this is a strong signal to all our businesses and citizens, and i would like to thank you for that.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank all those who took part in the debate, who participated. together, i would like to emphasise that we have succeeded in strengthening our european craftsmanship by giving local businesses the new quality label on their products, the proof of authenticity, quality and origin of eu-made handicrafts. our cultural and traditional heritage is being strengthened. the quality label on products will not only help to raise awareness of the regions of origin but will also ensure fair competition for producers, as imitations will finally be made more difficult. around a quarter of manufacturers suffer a significant loss of turnover due to products purportedly made authentically, but actually coming from third countries. consumers, in turn, benefit from the certainty that the geographical indication gives them that they are really buying a genuine product with traditional characteristics. this legislation has only been possible because of the excellent cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs in the european parliament, to whom and to their team i would like to say once again a very, very warm thank you. and of course also with commissioner breton and the swedish presidency, and the czech presidency has also done important preparatory work. the negotiations have not always been easy. but i think we can all be really proud now that we've done this and that we've brought this flagship into port. and i say, we have produced a success story. and finally, i can say that we have learned a lot from each other about our great traditional handicrafts.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i wanted to take the floor tonight to draw attention to the situation in afghanistan, where the taliban took power two years ago, and to tell the people there that they are not forgotten - nor are we here. i remember two years ago, the whole world was looking at afghanistan. and now, sadly, it feels like the whole world has forgotten about the situation in afghanistan. just last week, the world food programme announced that 10 million people in afghanistan could no longer be fed because of a lack of money from the international community. more and more people are starving there, more and more people are fleeing to the neighbouring regions. and in the neighboring regions, we're not doing enough to help, for example, afghan girls there -- in pakistan, for example -- with scholarships to get an education that's denied in afghanistan. i think that if we look at the situation closely, we should not be surprised that many people from afghanistan are trying to escape to europe. and that we are not confronting them with a rule of law procedure, but are depriving them of many things, ladies and gentlemen, is not even double standards any more, it is the end of morality, and it is something we should be ashamed of.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the ecb is calling for the introduction of the digital euro. the ecb's director general and head of the banca d'italia, mr panetta, cited the digital euro's benefits as being that it offers users anonymity, allows offline payments and is truly european. but we've been able to pay offline for thousands of years, in cash, or for centuries by check or by bank transfer. and if you have to pay virtually digitally out of necessity, you can do it for years with private digital currencies and services. and the anonymous nature of the cash flows is only maintained as long as the ecb does not identify the parties involved, although it could easily do so at any time. the ecb so the ecb as a european institution we could trust. i'll take that as a joke. after all, the ecb has given us germans unbearable property prices, record inflation and 15 years of declining living standards. trust, please remember, grows out of trustworthiness.
in the name of the s&d faction. i am not going to say anything. thank you for putting the issue of anti-semitism on the agenda here after the last few weeks. i'm a little shocked by this, i'm saying this very clearly, that we're talking about anti-semitism here in this house of democracy after october 7th and there's hardly anyone in the room. i think there are many opportunities where you have other things, but i find this really shocking because we know very well that anti-semitism is a poison. and if it's angry in the societies and not being opposed enough, we also know what anti-semitism leads to. i come from a country where anti-semitism has penetrated most of all walks of life. and it is, i think, no coincidence that we have so many speakers here who come from germany and are very concerned about this rise in anti-semitism all over europe, but also about new forms of anti-semitism that we see here and where we are desperate and urgently need answers and in particular actions. because in my country, it was clear that there was a real certainty that all democratic forces would gather behind the news: never again! and i can tell you, i woke up after october 7th, and suddenly i knew something had completely changed. and what has changed is that i feel, i think, how many people, that this security of never again is no longer there and that we in europe need to do a hell of a lot more to make sure that no one in europe living here has to be afraid to show that he or she is jewish or jew, can't wear any symbols and can't live in peace. i would like to end here again with a quote that hannah arendt once said that you can only be safe from anti-semitism on the moon. no, you have to be safe from anti-semitism in europe too.
the commission is not going to be able to do this. we, the s&d group, have also looked closely at the conclusions and analysed what evidence we find in the council's continued position on the important negotiations on the migration package. and if you look at the two short sentences -- not very meaningful -- you know how important it is that we exchange more. i should have liked to have spoken to mr michel about this. how prepared is the council for good compromise? it's one of the most important cases, especially when it comes to countering the uncertainty that's in our societies. i thought it was good that mrs blanchett once again pointed to our heritage in human rights and humanity. and it is really very important that we have a dual solidarity with the people who are fleeing, but also solidarity with the member states where most of the refugees arrive. i find it all the more shameful that i have to hear from members of this house that they equate migrants with terrorists and try to run this business of populists here. in this house it will be important that all democratic political forces work towards a good compromise and not give in to populism, which does not want solutions, but simply uses it to further divide. this shouldn't happen to us. and let me say one more word about the agreement with tunisia. it's just a bankruptcy filing that you can't... (the president withdraws the speaker.)
- madam president, please. the situation in gaza is dramatic after the barbaric terrorist act of hamas, but israel's response is not only understandable but necessary. the destruction of hamas is one of the basic conditions for peace. just as in migration policy, the eu or my federal government has been cementing this conflict for decades, by funding unrwa, a submarine of terror, with billions. for years, it has been known that unrwa has been spreading hatred against israel and jews in schools and glorifying islamic terrorism thus laying the ideological foundation for hamas. we have been demanding for years that the afd cease all payments to the palestinians. the anti-semitic demonstrations of the muslim mobs in europe should actually prove to my colleague that we should have been better listened to in the migration policy. come to your senses! let us all join forces to stop this terrorist financing and to impose the long overdue ceasefire for asylum seekers including palestinians.
in the name of the id faction. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. right in front of you: the commission's proposal for euro-7 standards is totally unacceptable. is the abolition of the eu's automotive industry not enough for you from 2035? you want to postpone the date to 2025? the committee on budgets' proposal, which is being put to the vote today, is better, but not good. i am not talking about individual content, a ridiculously difficult 90 second undertaking, but about the scandal of us market liberals, conservatives, being squeezed into the political arena by a minority of left-wing, green-woke wealth destroyers, ideological and political cloakers of our economy and our freedom on the nose. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission. so we're just settling for bad politics for the sake of compromise? we were not elected for this. in reverse to the popular saying here, it should be better to say: let's leave those green socialists behind. we must definitely show this dangerous green socialist utopian the red card if we do not want to ruin our economic future, including our car industry.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer. does it even need euro 7? making cars cleaner and better is of course important. the only problem is that the automotive industry is already on the path to decarbonisation and the costs are incredibly high. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the subject of the european parliament's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. secondly, euro-7 vehicles are becoming more expensive. then people can't afford new cars, and fleet renewal is paralyzed. we also have a problem with euro-6 vehicles. if it is older vehicles, which are not replaced for a long time. i therefore believe that euro 7 makes sense only if renewable fuels are enshrined in the law. a burner is neither good nor bad. it's just a matter of what you burn in it. let's make sure it's something climate neutral that's burned. unfortunately, renewable fuels are not part of this draft law. i think that's wrong. i am not going to say that i am not going to be able to do this. only openness to technology will bring the best and most economical solutions. please support our amendments to make a better law.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 9 november 2023. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 171.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the report by nacho sánchez amor on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs on a recommendation from the european parliament to the council and the vice-presidents of the commission and the high representatives of the union for foreign and security policy on the topic strengthening the right to participate: the legitimacy and resilience of electoral processes in illiberal political systems and authoritarian regimes (2022/2154(ini)) (a9-0323/2023).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 9 november 2023. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 171.
the next item on the agenda is the minutes' comments on important political issues (article 172 of the rules of procedure). i shall mix the list i have in the groupings a little bit and we shall start with our colleague tomislav sokol.
- madam president, please. according to official figures, the burden on public budgets in germany by migrants amounts to almost 50 billion euros a year. in fact, it's at least 100 billion. now the german government wants to force deportations through migration agreements and to set up asylum centres abroad. old-fashioned declarations of intent that do not work because courts prevent it and/or lack political will. under current law, almost all migrants have entered illegally and could have been prevented from entering by pushbacks. but the leyen eu migration pact is to prevent pushbacks by legalizing illegal migration. the cost of migration is already at least 2.5% of germany's gross social product, a trend which is rapidly increasing.
this is the end of this agenda item.
the next meeting will be held tomorrow, thursday 9 november 2023, at 9.00 a.m. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, from an industrial policy perspective, the most relevant piece of news from the eu-us summit in october is what was not agreed about. so the agreement on critical minerals doesn’t include recycled materials, as we in the european parliament call for. what a waste of opportunity. in the eu, we currently work on having circular and resilient supply chains for critical raw materials, and, of course, we should vote for covering recycled minerals in line with the objectives of the critical raw materials act. and we should not miss the chance to promote recycling capacities. additionally, we have this trade dispute on trade in steel and aluminium not solved yet and the eu and the us have agreed to find a solution for that. they didn’t. a future global steel and aluminium agreement should cover overcapacity and climate-related goals. this means emissions intensity thresholds for steel and aluminium production and consumption, or a common understanding on what can be permissible: green industrial subsidies that do not contribute to overcapacity. my vision is to have a transatlantic climate alliance as a base for quick transatlantic, rational decisions pushing green economy and the fight against climate change, what is desperately needed. let’s make that better next time.
mr president, i believe the eu-us summit has shown very clearly that we stand united in our fight for democracy and against the autocrats of this world. but the transatlantic partnership is so much more than just standing against autocrats. it is also working closer together than we do with other partners. it is also growing together. and the best way to do so is by trade. and in that regard, the result of the summit has been disappointing. and in the eu, just like in the us, we want to strengthen our economic security. more trade with more partners will make us less dependent and more trade with more democratic partners will make our economies and our democracy stronger. and the dispute remaining from the trump tariffs needs to be solved by the end of this year. we need to see the promised agreement on sustainable steel and aluminium, and we need to see an agreement on critical minerals to ensure fair competition for european companies. let us strengthen the transatlantic partnership by abolishing tariffs, foster more cooperation through the trade and technology council, and let us work towards a vision for eu-us free trade agreement.
in the name of the id faction. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. i am also embarrassed by this new issue of own resources. because with this new financing plan, you're still accelerating the path you mistook a few years ago to slavery. since you packed the new own funds system into the whole package of nextgenerationeu, the seven-year plan and the rule of law mechanism three years ago and miraculously removed the vetoes of poland and hungary it has been clear what you want: they want a new eu, one that, unlike the treaties, is largely independent of the member states, where there is no longer a veto and where the commission can make and break and roll its own will. but, ladies and gentlemen, have you asked the citizens what they want? and i can tell you that they don't want a superstate in the eu, not even the good germans. and if the citizens knew what you were planning on doing with all your new own funds and other atrocities and what burdens were coming on them, then you would be swept away in the next election, and you would not get a foot on the ground. but as citizens will not know about this because of the control of the mainstream media, i predict that at the latest, when the germans run out of money and you admit bankrupt ukraine to the eu, many member states will leave the ship. let us stop the path to slavery so that your precious compatriot, mr. hayek, can continue to sleep peacefully.
- madam president, please. sometimes you wonder what's wrong with the left. we have seen in the last few days that the al-shifa hospital however it has been claimed and as you have always denied was not just a hospital but a military base. it follows that hamas has now really broken every humanitarian rule of warfare. and we also saw children's rooms where they stored rockets, and so on and so forth. if you're saying there was a massacre here, that's a lie. the israelis are doing everything they can to prevent this massacre from happening. the only massacre we're talking about here is the massacre that hamas committed against the israelis. that is, you are here on humanitarian grounds, but you do not recognize that hamas has long and time again broken all humanitarian rules of warfare. that request should therefore be rejected.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, exactly 34 years ago, on november 1989, the united nations adopted the convention on the rights of the child. it is in commemoration of that milestone event that we celebrate world children’s day today. it is a reminder that children’s rights are human rights under any circumstances and everywhere. the four guiding principles of the united nations convention on the rights of the child are: non-discrimination, the best interests of the child, the right to survival and development, and the right to be heard. they are also reflected in the european union’s charter of fundamental rights. it is important to recall them every day, like today. the theme for world children’s day 2023 is ‘every child, every right’ – for every child, peace, for every child, a liveable planet, for every child, a voice. yet, on this world children’s day, the european union is particularly concerned for the well-being of children living in situations of armed conflict, forced displacement and protracted humanitarian crises. unfortunately, our television screens and social media feeds are full of the daily horrors inflicted upon children around the world, be it from gaza to illegal child deportations from ukraine, terrorist attacks in israel and armed conflicts from the sahel region to yemen and myanmar. children do not start conflicts. they deserve and need peace. we as adults, as caretakers, as policymakers, we have an obligation to protect and promote all rights of all children and to ensure that they can live in dignity. this is also the commission’s understanding and our approach to the rights of the child, as we laid down in the european strategy on the rights of the child and the european child guarantee. while the european union is one of the most equal and prosperous regions in the world, we have not yet fully eradicated poverty. child poverty in europe is not acceptable. currently, every fourth child lives at risk of poverty or social exclusion. this requires decisive actions at all levels. this is what the report on reducing inequalities and promoting social inclusion in times of crisis for children and their families calls for. and we can all agree, children growing up in poverty are less likely to do well in school. they are less likely to enjoy good health. they are less likely to realise their full potential later in life. this parliament has been at the forefront of the european union policy actions to support the most vulnerable children. we highly appreciate that the proposed children first resolution pays attention to the quality of the national action plans, adequate financing, stakeholder involvement, and proper governance and monitoring. all these aspects are key also from our point of view. i want to thank my dear colleague, commissioner nicolas schmit, for all his work. eight years ago, the european parliament adopted a resolution on reducing inequalities, with the special focus on child poverty calling for a child guarantee. today, the child guarantee is a reality. we welcome the fact that 20 european union member states have set national targets on child poverty reduction. we see that in 2022, the number of children at risk of poverty or social exclusion decreased in 19 member states. we see 19,100 fewer children affected by poverty in italy, 86,000 fewer children affected by poverty in greece. while we welcome these figures, we remain concerned that this significant progress is offset by increases in eight other member states. but we must not be complacent. the commission is tirelessly working with member states to ensure that progress is being made, and we are happy with the constructive approach by the national coordinators. a number of concrete actions have been taken – for example, school meals have been introduced in croatia and in luxembourg. in bulgaria, a future for children’s health prevention programme will support approximately 14,000 families. honourable members, you have called for better monitoring. we are now working jointly with the social protection committee to establish a common monitoring framework. the results should be available in a matter of a few weeks. results from the programming show that combating child poverty has been defined as a specific objective in programmes of 23 member states, totalling eur 6.1 billion of european financing or eur 8.9 billion if national contributions are added. next march will be another opportunity to take stock. european member states should report on their progress in implementing the child guarantee. here, we must draw attention to the fact that primary responsibility for implementation of the child guarantee lies with the member states. we recall that an investment in children is a tangible investment in their societies and their economies. we must preserve this stability as we all know how fragile it is. sustainable investment in children will be key. i thank you and i look forward to this debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. world children's day, november 20th. today is world children's day. the parliament is empty and we are putting the debate into a wonderful report. that's it. this is world children's day how europe deals with how we deal with our children. i have to be honest, you can only be ashamed of yourself here. shame on the world: this is a full house, this is a home for people who respect children. world children's day is to raise awareness of the needs of children. world children's day is about strengthening the rights of children around the world. he's here to promote child poverty, child labour. he is not here for self-affirmation or for embedding this important discussion in a report. like i said, you can only be ashamed of yourself here. the german family party, whose federal chairman i am, has also reworked many proposals in this report, with an additional european child support, with a european education salary, which parents urgently need to be able to raise their children independently and to enter into family planning financially. so another sign that we as a small party are urgently needed here in this european parliament. and we hope that next year, after the european elections, on november 20th, this house will be full and that we will have our own agenda item for this world children's day. because the children of this world and the children of europe have earned it. they are our future, they are our evil word human capital. they are the people we must support, the people we must care for, and we must not allow poverty to continue to increase. we must not allow child labour in europe, which mrs pereira said is growing rapidly because of the poverty and inflation and the wars we have in this world. yes, let us not only remember the children, but also be active for our children in europe, and then let us in the future draw lessons from today so that we can do better next year.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. today is the international day of children's rights, and i want to focus on a topic that is particularly important, especially important to me: child poverty. this is so important to me because as a child i was affected by child poverty myself. i know what it's like to not have money for a movie or a swimming pool. i know what it's like to be bullied because you can't afford the branded clothes. i was born in gelsenkirchen. gelsenkirchen is now the city with the highest child poverty rate in germany: 42%. in germany, it is 24%. this puts us in the european top 20. this supposedly rich germany is ranked 20th in the world in child poverty. what are we talking about in total? 2.2 million children. and now a number that really touches me: of these 2.2 million children, 933,000 have come to us since 2015, as refugees, as migrants. of the 2.2 million 933 000 children. we have to be honest . when we talk about child poverty, we're talking about migration. we celebrated st. martin last week, a holiday i love very much. st. martin has shared his coat. we're not sharing here, we're just giving away our last shirt. if you want to fight child poverty, you have to save the welfare state. and to save the welfare state, we must finally end illegal migration.
thank you, madam rapporteur. i have received one motion for a resolution to wind up the debate. 1 the joint debate is closed and the vote will be held tomorrow. _________________1 see minutes. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. – around 21.7% of the population in europe is at risk of poverty and social exclusion. for children, tragically, it is even 1 in 4. the factors contributing to poverty are complex and include primarily pay discrimination, gender inequality, the lack of affordable housing, discrimination, low education levels, technological changes and structural changes in the labour market. we need to adopt a life-cycle approach to break the vicious circle of poverty. the eu child guarantee combined with adequate public investment to ensure decent food, housing, education and healthcare to all children will help us achieve our objective of eradicating child poverty in europe. today, on the international day on the rights of the child, we socialists and democrats reiterate our call for a budget of at least eur 20 billion for the european child guarantee. we also call for a golden social rule ensuring that budget cuts will never affect measures destined to reduce child poverty. finally, we call for the strengthening of eu social policies such as a strong anti-poverty strategy, minimum income schemes, and public housing strategies that would help protect our children and our loved ones against poverty.
in writing. the report on reducing inequalities and promoting social inclusion for children and their families during the crisis sets out the objective of what has been a reality in hungary for many years: free and compulsory kindergarten from the age of 3, free primary school, including all textbooks. school and kindergarten meals are free or reduced for children in need. in addition, all children in hungary receive free healthcare. however, children cannot be seen in isolation: they live in families and therefore support the whole family: our child support and family policy provides a wide range of support (from tax credits to non-refundable subsidies) to help build homes, support young people who are getting married or expecting a baby, as well as large families. and since child poverty is linked to the situation of parents, the most important thing is that parents get to work: if there is work, everything is there. in hungary, the employment rate is almost 75%, while unemployment is only 3.9%. of the 4.75 million people employed, only 250,000 receive a minimum wage, which will increase by 15% this year. the minimum wage for skilled workers is 700 thousand people, which is 10% higher this year.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the un climate change conference 2023 in dubai, united arab emirates (cop28) (2023/2636(rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, ladies and gentlemen, good evening. cop28 marks a crucial moment, a truly crucial moment for global climate action. and the european union’s bar for success will be very high. and that is because the next generations are expecting us to take responsibility for their futures too. and the window for action, unfortunately, is closing. we can still offer these next generations a 1.5-degree future, but it does require that the entire world does take action to reduce emissions and prepare for the impacts of climate change. in dubai, parties will have to advance on all elements of the global climate agenda and that means mitigation, adaptation and means of implementation. and this includes climate finance and, of course, loss and damage. yes, we have seen important progress in the past couple of weeks, and even a breakthrough on the set-up of a fund for loss and damage. and a recent joint statement on climate action from the us and china is another welcome development. in the past six weeks, i’ve also met with a range of counterparts from across the globe. i spoke to some of our closest progressive allies from africa and from latin america, and i’ve reached out to major economies like brazil and china. and in each of these meetings i have stressed the need, the absolute need, to raise climate ambition. i’ve reiterated the eu’s readiness to play its part. and i emphasised that we must let ourselves be guided by science and by facts. we know the direction of travel. we have our plans on how to get there. we simply need to speed up. so let me go briefly into the three areas i mentioned before: mitigation, adaptation and means of implementation. first, on mitigation, this year’s cop28 marks the first global stocktake. and one thing is clear: all countries should take meaningful action to cut emissions, particularly the world’s largest emitters. the eu has been doing just that, following the adoption of nearly all fit for 55 proposals, we have updated our ndc to provide transparency on how we plan to continue to reduce emissions. and i have noticed in every single meeting that i had these past weeks, what we do at home is the foundation of our climate diplomacy abroad. so i want to thank again this house and the leaders in this house for their work on our climate and energy legislation. our model shows that full implementation of our policies will bring an emission reduction of around 57% by 2030. and it puts europe firmly on track to reach climate neutrality by 2050. to say the same about the entire world, we need to peak fossil fuels consumption this decade and phase out unabated fossil fuels well ahead of 2050. and we also need to stop new coal-based power capacity, triple renewable energy and double the rate of energy efficiency by 2030. and frankly speaking, we must quickly decarbonise the global power system. your resolution points exactly in the same direction. and it is also in line with the global energy pledge that we jointly pursue with the cop28 presidency. ladies and gentlemen, as the climate crisis intensifies, preparing for its impact will become, unfortunately, more and more important. and our guiding star for adaptation is strengthening resilience while focusing on the lives and livelihoods of particularly those who are in the most vulnerable places of our continent, but frankly speaking, the whole world. and through the global goal on adaptation, we must strengthen adaptation planning, must track progress and mainstream climate resilience into every investment decision. but for all these goals to be achieved, cop28 must also bring progress on aligning all financial flows with the paris agreement. strong commitments, and i say it again, strong commitments to shift funds away from fossil fuels are particularly important. and this can include phasing out fossil fuel subsidies that do not address energy poverty or the just transition, promoting the use of domestic carbon pricing and agreeing international crediting rules that truly help transform financing for climate action. and in this context we have invited different countries to join a call to action for paris-aligned carbon markets. solidarity is another key component of our climate finance discussions. the eu will continue to deliver its fair share – and, frankly speaking, more than its fair share – of the 100 billion goal. a new target for after 2025 should be part of global efforts that mobilise a wide variety of sources, both public and private, to meet the goal of the paris agreement. last but certainly not least, i remain committed to enabling the launch of the loss and damage fund at cop28. this needs to happen in a context where we can all feel confident that, in parallel, we will see deep emissions reductions this decade. that is and remains the best way to minimise future loss and damage. the fund is open to contributions from all parties, and this is crucial because i strongly believe that all who do have the ability to pay should indeed do so, and i will continue to push for that in the conversations i’m having. we cannot base this kind of funding simply on an economic division between developed and developing countries. that might have made sense in 1992. climate action is truly a global responsibility. and climate change is a threat that we all face. so every country – literally every country – must do its utmost to eliminate its emissions and to defend its citizens and its future generations from the impacts of climate change.
for the renew group. the commission is not going to vote. the world is on a course toward catastrophic temperature increases, and that's why, of course, this is an incredibly important climate change summit that we're looking at. unfortunately, the extent to which extreme weather phenomena are becoming commonplace and the extent to which research suggests that water levels will rise for hundreds of years to come is the extent of the disaster we are discussing. this climate summit is incredibly important because this is where we are discussing how we will achieve the goals of the paris agreement. and it requires a higher pace, of course. we need to get this so-called "loss and damage fund" under control. it is extremely important that we triple the share of renewable energy, that we double the amount of energy efficiency, and that we phase out fossil fuels. we have much to be proud of on the european side, but it is extremely important that we, on the european side, put ourselves in the spotlight now to convince the chinese, the indians, the americans to follow up on this, so that we can achieve the objectives of the paris agreement and to fight against climate change that threatens the future of the planet.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, today’s emissions gap report is indicating again that the world is on track, with the current pledges that we have seen, towards a warming of 2.5 to 2.9 degrees, which is double what we have promised the world. so, this cop is very crucial to change that course, because not only do we see these projections where there is a huge gap between what we want to do and what has been promised, we also see that warming is accelerating. this year will very likely become the warmest year ever on record, and 17 november has been the first day on record where we were warmer as a world than the 2 degrees, and we know there’s variability and it’s only one day, but for the first time, the world has gone beyond the 2 degrees threshold. this shows the urgency of action that we need to do, and therefore, this first global stocktake in dubai will also be the credibility test of the paris agreement. therefore, we need binding decisions on climate action, tripling renewables, doubling energy and efficiency, but most importantly, also the end of fossils – and there, to be very honest, dear commissioner, again you squeeze in the word ‘unabated’ there. so, our parliament is very clear in its resolution. we want the end of fossil fuels. i know that the environment council has come to a very broad definition on how they want to tackle it but i think it is important that we hear from you where you stand on the end of fossil fuels. then exactly on this issue of unabated or abated, parliament is clear: we need the end of fossil fuels. we also need the end of fossil subsidies by 2025. we need the end of environmental harmful subsidies by 2027. that’s all in the resolution. so, a clear commission would be important there as well. but if we are going to fight for ambition, we need to be credible as europe as well. we need to deliver on our financial promises. we need to deliver on loss and damage as well, so that the developing world can see that we are serious about tackling this issue for them and for us.
the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. we need to fight climate change globally. if we don't do this globally, we're not going to make it. that is why these climate conferences, however tedious and arduous, are extremely important. i also do not think it is right for us europeans to point to others and say: they must do something. we must set a good example. the european union has emissions per head of 6.25 tonnes. some countries, like poland or the country i know best, have even more. and countries like cameroon and tanzania have less than 0.5 tons per capita. anyone who says, "the others must start before we do anything" is wrong. but on the other hand, it is also intolerable that international conferences are still being done as if china were a developing country. china now has higher per capita emissions not only than the eu as a whole, but even higher per capita emissions than germany and poland. and that is why it is so important that we break this old phalanx annex i, not annex i , and that is why the commission negotiators commissioner, congratulations on a historic breakthrough at the technical level in the loss and damage field. it must also be confirmed at the climate conference.
madam president, commissioner and colleagues, 28 years on from the first conference of the parties, some progress has been made. last week, the oecd noted that developed countries had transferred usd 89 billion to developing countries in climate finance in 2021, and that we are on track to achieve usd 100 billion by the end of this year. also, we should take some comfort from the unstoppable growth in green technologies. however, our climate is reaching a tipping point and so is our democracy. 2024 is the biggest election year in history, with more than 4 billion citizens voting. in an effort to pacify the far right, many of our moderate politicians are watering down their climate policies. one colleague advised me that i should avoid the use of the hashtag ‘cop28’, considering it toxic, effectively surrendering the ground to the most strident voices. there is now a real risk of the european green deal unravelling. defeating climate change must be the priority of all politicians across the spectrum. we need a true coalition for climate.
the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. we're going to the cop and we have something: the eu has managed to agree on the methane regulation; we will substantially reduce methane emissions from the energy sector, and we will -- this is particularly important: we will also expand this to our imports. that's a giant shot. this means that all importers of gas, oil and coal into the european union will have to comply with this regulation. i would like to recall the un environment programme report from last year, which said that if we can reduce methane emissions by 50 percent by 2030, we will save ourselves 0.3 degrees celsius of global warming. that's why methane emissions are so important. i'm still incredibly happy that we were able to get a good result here last week. i will also have a lot of discussions at cop with delegates from other countries to see how we can move forward together quickly because the big agricultural sector is still out of business.
- madam speaker, please. un climate conferences often focus on ambitious countries doing more, while climate promoters like china and india have no claims. take the paris agreement, for example. of the 196 signatory countries, only 60 are obliged to take concrete action. so, only a third. the eu's commitment is a big blow to us. our standard of living is falling, while we subsidize china by buying its solar, wind and battery products. asia's emissions are increasing and the eu is weakening. it's not helping the climate. it is time we asked ourselves the question that no one has dared to ask at the climate conference yet. what effect and costs has the un climate decision had in practice? it's economic calculations that help the climate, not moral guidelines for the west.
madam president, your reasoning is ecologically absurd and socially unfair. how can you ask french and european citizens for ever greater efforts to combat climate change, when giant, hyper polluting container ships continue to cross the oceans and maritime traffic continues to increase? why import from the other side of the world when we can produce these products here? why do climate conferences ignore the harmful consequences of free trade agreements that facilitate and encourage these polluting practices? the first environmental measure would be a coordinated effort for localism, i.e. to act on the principle of producing as close as possible to consumers to reduce avoidable travel and transport. cop 28 must be a change of direction and must recognise free trade as a polluting and now obsolete model and place localism at the heart of europe's environmental policy.
madam president, we will be attending cop28 in dubai. the demands on the responses to the environmental problems we face are high. but in view of the experience of previous conferences, expectations cannot be but low. we will be demanding a change of paradigm, opposing market measures to a necessary and fairer regulatory approach that directly affects emissions, starting from a common but differentiated responsibility. to demand changes in the production model, promoting local production and consumption, shortening trade chains, guaranteeing each country's sovereignty in key areas such as food. we will be advocating collective public transport, the restoration of public control over strategic sectors such as energy, the fair regulation of international trade, and calling for peace and cooperation between peoples. stop painting capitalism green. the urgency of policy change at the environmental level is inseparable from policy change at the social and economic level, which guarantees people the right to development and a better life.
madam president, commissioner, the world is once again holding a conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change, this time in dubai, in a world full of geopolitical tensions and confrontations, and where multilateralism operates on climate as one of its last springs, of its last dimensions. it's a meeting that's going to help us balance, especially the global balance sheet, where we're going to see that we're not doing enough, and what happens to climate change in a year where all the scientific indicators say it's accelerating. we know that if we don't redouble our efforts and our ambition, we're headed for a three-degree increase in temperature on earth, with huge disruptions to our way of life and our economy. it is time to show ambition, that europe is able to operate the loss and damage fund on which much of our relationship with the global south depends, to be ambitious, to triple the deployment of renewables by 2030 and at the same time to double energy efficiency. our credibility depends on all of this.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. if we want to stop the climate crisis, we need to keep the fossils in the ground. so we need to talk now about the massive expansion of renewables and about climate damage and fair compensation. we need civil society at the table. thousands of people are already losing their homes today. every other day, a person is murdered who is fighting for more climate protection. and in the united arab emirates, dozens of human rights activists are still in prison, even after they have served their sentences. we all who are heading to cop should remind the uae of its promises to civil society actors. and also to grant them all political freedoms. and at the same time, without the gulf states in the climate change team, we can't save this world, no matter how much we travel by train. so let's use this cop to make the gulf states leaders in real climate protection.
madam president, scientists are about to declare 2023 the hottest year on record. year after year, heat records are broken, surpassing the worst ipcc forecasts. the number is the destruction of ecosystems with consequences that are still impossible to assess for nature and humans. for the ipcc, an additional 0.1°c of global warming is 100 million premature deaths. in the face of climate change, we have a huge responsibility for ourselves and future generations. we need an ecological fork and it needs to be fair. justice is about creating global insurance coverage for climate change damage in resource-poor countries. it is insurance based on subsidies, not loans, which would be abundant above all in countries that have been rich for years on the back of the planet. it is also important to note once and for all that ecology without class struggle is gardening. we have to change the pattern. in conclusion, we must go to the cop with a strong mandate. a strong warrant against the lobbyists. a strong mandate for international solidarity in the face of climate change. a mandate to defend the public interest against private interests, particularly those of the oil and gas industries. and finally, a mandate to bring collective hope to our generation and to future generations.
- madam president, please. it's the climate conference again, and this time we know that limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees, as set out in the paris agreement, will no longer be possible. we have to adapt to warming above two degrees, with all the consequences. that's why i think actions are more important than words. the report last week that the developed countries have finally reached their target of 100 billion euros for international climate finance is therefore a good one. this lack of credibility has been a persistent issue and a barrier to recent conferences. the recent sino-american agreement to expand renewable energy was also of particular importance. renewable energy thus takes its place in the energy mix among the main contributors, making it increasingly affordable and practical. but there's not action everywhere. i am particularly concerned about the situation of international forest protection. so far, there's more promise than results. and we all need to be clear: we can't restore our systemic rainforests -- the lungs of the earth -- once they're broken. the commission has already decided to take a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are maintained. we need to get faster and think bigger. let's give the rainforest countries, for example, their fair deal on international climate finance through the debt-for-nature exchange or payments for environmental services. the concepts for this are on the table. i am sure that we will finally start talking about protecting existing forests.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. luxury villas, mega yachts, private jets the richest percentage of the world's population, according to oxfam, are responsible for as many greenhouse gases as the five billion people who make up the poorest two-thirds. one place where the super-rich are thriving is dubai a city built on the foundations of oil wealth and constant exploitation of resources. it feels a bit bizarre that this year's world climate conference is being held right there, led by the united arab emirates, which is already trying to push ahead with its agenda to extend the age of oil and gas massively and here we have to resist. we need to talk not only about global climate policy, but about the question of justice behind it: what does the vast majority of people who cannot afford to buy out of the crisis, who are already feeling the effects of climate change, who are losing their livelihoods due to earthquakes, floods and storms, need? for that 99%, we must fight at cop for an end to fossil subsidies, for solidarity finance for climate damage.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. do you remember the summer? greece and libya were flooded, and australia is still burning. and most of them don't promise anything about the next climate conference because there's an oil boss at the top. i'm telling you, we can't afford that! putting your hands in the shot means a 3 degree world. climate protection is too important. in dubai, we as the global community must make it clear that we are finally ending coal, oil and gas, that europe is acknowledging its climate debt, and that by 2030, the expansion of wind and solar energy will triple and energy efficiency will double. yes, the path is long and the opponent is big, but every tenth of a degree counts. we're not giving up until the job is done. mr hoekstra, show in dubai that you are not a paperworm!
the committee on regional development, which is responsible for the implementation of the programme, is composed of representatives of the member states and the commission. i am not going to say anything. the rapporteur has already summarised in many points why it is good and right that we address this net-zero industry regulation here. but i have to put a little salt in the soup, because i think what we're doing, the way we're doing it, is not appropriate to the challenge we're facing. on the one hand, the commission has made a very precise and strategic selection and presented it. the european parliament has been very critical of this and has been very soft and has been flooded with demands which have been simply made without any scientific evidence. i do not think that makes sense if we are to act strategically. but it would not be so bad if the commission had at least the courage to present a reasonable, substantial aid package to finance the whole thing. i think that is the question of how we can get investment and strengthen the regions so that not only does industry not migrate but, quite the contrary, we as the winners of this competition for the best technologies in the net zero areas can emerge. and in this situation, to hear some laughter, to see people rejoicing that funds are being cut for this transformation, i think is absolutely harmful. because in the end, it's not the climate that suffers from the lack of investment. in the end, it is european society. and we must act to invest in this european society.
in the name of the id faction. i am not going to say anything. finally, finally, you might think, politics is doing its job: reducing bureaucracy, simplifying authorization procedures and making markets more accessible. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. but there is a great deal to be lacking: only the chosen ones will enter these benefits. the report provides for measures for niche industries that should be taken for granted by all industries and industries. and then, when you read all these benefits, you get a little bit of a sense between the lines, that britain may have made the right decision with brexit. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. climate targets are postponed, burners banned and heating dictates are issued. nobody cares about that. the commission is also working on a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. the fate of solarworld and conergy is long gone. we, the continental europeans, may actually end up with our net zero industry only differently than this report describes.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. over 70% of people in europe want to fix their smartphone, but only 20% do. repairing has to be easier, cheaper and faster. this saves resources and the climate, and that is what the european right to repair does. what does this mean for consumers? if the vacuum is broken, it no longer needs to go directly to the trash, because the manufacturer has to fix the vacuum. to make repairs affordable, independent small repair shops around the corner or carpenters should also have access to manual and spare parts at a reasonable price in their garages at home. this is very important because repairs are currently far too expensive. we greens have successfully negotiated that practices that manufacturers use to keep their thumbs on repair will be disrupted, such as that certain spare parts can only be used with serial numbers. all of this is the end of the unchallenged market power of apple and co. and it's going to bring new jobs and new orders to the little ones, and that's really good. repair is no longer a luxury, but it is becoming the norm, because the right to repair finally gives consumers the option of making sustainable choices. i am saying very clearly that we greens would have wanted more; we greens would have liked to have adjusted the guarantee to the lifetime, for example. that would have triggered a real repair revolution, but unfortunately, that was prevented by the center-right in this house. but still: the current compromise is also a milestone in the transition to a circular economy, saving resources and climate, including the consumer's wallet. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights.
mr president, i want to speak to you. 60 billion euros for the fight against the coronavirus crisis should not have been allowed to flow into the climate funds, the german constitutional court ruled last week. the court held that debts incurred in the event of an emergency cannot be discharged as a result of a breach of the german debt brake. the german lightning government must now find a new pocket-playing trick for its shadow households. the 800 billion euro eu and corona reconstruction programme, which is financed illegally by leyen, is already a third of the debt, which is already going to climate change without a purpose and more soon. the eu is therefore staying true: it is creating semi-democratic loopholes to circumvent national decisions for fantasy projects that must fail because they lack all measure and reason.
in the name of the id faction. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. the present proposal from the eu commission on the use of plant protection products would have disastrous consequences not only for german farmers. and to a greater extent, this is true of the version drawn up by the committee. i am not the only one who has been credited with countless farmers who are simply afraid of their existence. the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of animals and the environment. instead of developing modern application techniques, the further extension of the already overwhelming documentation and justification obligations that degraded well-trained farmers to commanders of legislative technocrats. it would be the end of many farms. i therefore call in particular on my german colleagues from the cdu/csu, but also on the whole epp group: vote against our id application if you do not want to remain part of the green scam package! unfortunately, you have so far voted enthusiastically for the green deal and the strategy from the court to the table and made this fatal development possible with your majority. so today more than ever it is clear whether you value policy and farmers' concerns and our food security above your doctrine of party ideology. and, mrs. wiener, your blunt fearful fears, as if our local food were pure poison, are just embarrassing. thanks to you, a large part of our food would come from doubtful third countries in the future.
the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. it is interesting that every speaker, every speaker here, emphasizes that their own country is already a pioneer in reducing pesticides. the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. but now let us return to the scientific facts. the european environment agency has made it clear in many reports that our biodiversity, our species diversity, is at great risk. and biodiversity is not a value in itself, but it is our survival basis for drinking water, for clean air, for fertile soils. and according to the environment agency, one of the main drivers of massive pesticide use in the european union countries is the european union. it is therefore important and appropriate to reduce pesticide use. and the environment committee has presented a very good report here, which is that farmers are being supported through independent consultation, through financial support. and it is interesting that the agriculture committee wants to cancel this financial support. yeah, well, that can't work. and as you're right, farmers don't do this out of the joy of risking their own health. that's why we want to take her down this road. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question on the blue card procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. so, of course, the commission has assumed that we will not change anything, that we will continue to throw away a third of our food, that we will continue to grow animal feed on 60% of the land area and not food for human consumption. i think we could do much better than think about which countries we want to import nothing from now. i should like to remind you that on a regular basis, when i object to the increase in the limit values in order not to jeopardize imports, the epp faction votes against it. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question on the blue card procedure. )
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i think the term 'plant protection' is actually misleading, especially with regard to herbicides, which are meant to kill plants. in this respect, i think the term 'plant protection' is a bit misleading. i think that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are maintained. but let's stick to the english term "pesticides", which is also very well established scientifically. with the new breeding methods: i'm a little bit doubtful that we'll actually end up reducing pesticides, and i'm not sure if farmers are so happy when these new breeding methods lead to the seed being patented and they can't breed anything themselves.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. a real strategy of reduction yes, a total ban no. given the multiple crises in the world, secure food production in the eu is more important than ever. and no, it's not an alternative that we keep putting more pressure on our farmers and our yields fall, so we have to buy more on the world market. with all the sincere love for biodiversity, i can say quite frankly: we cannot focus more and more on limitations and this will lead to more global hunger. i therefore expect the commission and parliament to show us ways of doing things and not just prohibitions. i therefore reject a general ban on sensitive areas. this would be particularly tragic for protected areas. the purpose of these is to protect a cultural landscape; the sur now threatens to destroy what is intended to protect the protected landscape. the commission has already decided to introduce a new directive on the protection of animals and animals. i shall therefore only be able to agree to the sur if there is still work to be done on the protected areas. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. dear sarah wiener, i believe that we must indeed act in a european way in this respect. it is not good if we have different situations in the member states again. i even think we need to take a different approach from the principled approach. we need a reversal of the burden of proof. i am right in saying that where pesticides pose a danger, where the protection of plants is compromised, we must limit their use, but to ban them first and then to relieve them on the other side, i think that is the wrong approach. first, you should allow and then only ban when necessary.
the commission is not going to be able to do this. to reverse the burden of proof: more than half of the birds in our fields, fields and meadows are silenced. pesticides are the number one driver of this bird death. pesticides don't stay on the farm. the rain washes them from vineyards and grape fields, they land in the streams and are washed down the river systems to our drinking water. pesticides also wander through the food chain, through contaminated insects eaten by birds. amsel, drossel, fink and star... they might not be here anytime soon? we must not allow the birds to be silent and this song to be meaningless for future generations. we must think preventively and see chemical pesticides as a last resort. the present system, which is destroying our common agricultural policy in this way, must be transformed together. and we have no choice. we must radically reduce the use of pesticides. i ask you to vote for a strong sur here, for a planet where it continues to buzz, whistle and buzz. let's take responsibility together!
in writing. the european commission proposal goes far beyond the objective and the rapporteur, sarah wiener, is once again high on it in her draft report. the wide-ranging and undifferentiated reduction commitments to complete bans in ecological and sensitive areas are a source of concern for farmers and winemakers. there is a risk that agriculture and viticulture in protected areas will no longer be possible or will be extremely limited. this will deprive existing industries of their operating base and make us dependent on imports from third countries with lower environmental and social standards. i am, of course, like most professionals, a supporter of sustainable reduction of pesticides. however, there must be alternatives that work, how else can we fight diseases and pests? a reduction in pesticides with regard to food security is right, but a total ban is the wrong way. i think that a combination of nature protection and agriculture is the right way to go. the reduction targets could be achieved if we allow new breeding technologies and promote digital farming so that it is only treated where there is actually disease or pest infestation. we also need faster and simpler authorisation procedures for new and less harmful plant protection products.
madam president, i liked that we finally had a plenary debate that is really a debate. frau präsidentin, lieber herr vizepräsident der kommission dombrovskis, liebe kolleginnen und kollegen! das handelsabkommen zwischen der europäischen union und neuseeland markiert einen wendepunkt in der europäischen handelspolitik, für den wir grüne uns sehr lange eingesetzt haben, für den sich auch dieses parlament sehr lange eingesetzt hat. besonders freue ich mich über den neuen standard bei nachhaltigkeitskapiteln, und endlich, endlich können verstöße gegen das pariser klimaschutzübereinkommen oder die iao-kernarbeitsnormen geahndet werden. und damit sind diese kapitel endlich keine papiertiger mehr, sondern stellen sicher, dass unser handeln im einklang mit dem europäischen grünen deal steht. es ist so wichtig, dass es erstmals auch ein kapitel über die rechte indigener völker sowie die verpflichtung zu nachhaltiger landwirtschaft gibt. handelspolitik muss als hebel für menschenrechte und für die transformation genutzt werden. als grüne hätten wir uns gewünscht, noch weiter zu gehen. beispielsweise wollten wir einen klaren fahrplan für den abbau von fossilen subventionen und die umsetzung aus dem nachhaltigkeitskapitel einfordern. das abkommen ist also noch nicht perfekt, aber es ist ein entscheidender schritt in die richtige richtung. was mir ganz wichtig ist: hinter neuseeland dürfen wir jetzt nicht mehr zurückfallen. alle zukünftigen eu-handelsabkommen müssen diesen neuen mindeststandards folgen.
- madam president, please. more trade with more partners makes the eu more independent, even though many left-wing colleagues here today disagree. it is more trade with more democracies that strengthens our economy and democracy worldwide. free trade with new zealand will grow our economy and our value partnership. our eu exports can increase by 4.5 billion euros a year, and our companies can save about 140 million in tariffs. the free trade agreement with new zealand is, however, above all a strategic success. it is a sign that the eu is still able to conclude free trade agreements. that is why this success must be above all a spark that will finally launch an offensive for more free trade. i am very much looking forward to the commission making trade policy its absolute top priority, particularly the negotiations with australia and india. the european parliament must ratify the trade agreements concluded during this legislature, and above all the mercosur agreement. new zealand must be only the beginning of an offensive for more free trade. because the time to act is now.
in the name of the s&d faction. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. i received a letter last week and had a conversation with the 12-year-old pupils anna and sabine from düsseldorf. they were upset that the fruit and vegetable section of the supermarket alone was receiving so much packaging waste, and they asked me as a politician what we were actually doing about it. the reality is sabine and anna are right. we're consuming far too much packaging waste, whether it's individual pickles, go-go coffee cups or the oversized packages of online retailers. since 2010, our consumption of packaging waste in the eu has increased by 20%. every german alone collects 225 kilograms of packaging waste every year, which is about the weight of three washing machines. like sabine and anna, many people in europe are upset about this. the overwhelming majority of the population demands that we reduce the packaging mountains. i wish the voices of consumers in this house could be heard as much as some fast food chains. i have never been overwhelmed by so many lobbying questions, some of which have gone beyond the limits of legitimacy. they are sowing doubts about the regulation with pseudo-serious, unscientific fake studies, and they must not succeed tomorrow. we can tighten the waste hierarchy tomorrow, cutting down on our material consumption first because we can't recycle ourselves out of our garbage cans. we need more multi-use, prohibiting unnecessary packaging and rules against oversized packaging. we can make packaging that is unavoidable more sustainable and, by the way, we can also have a recycling business programme, because all packaging must be recyclable by 2030 and more recycled material must be found in plastic bags, bottles and boxes. we can protect consumers by banning harmful perennial chemicals and bisphenol from packaging that comes into contact with our food. i am not sure what the commission is going to do. and tomorrow, it's up to you who votes for who in this house.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. in europe, the garbage is getting bigger and bigger. it's also the packaging trash. 40% of plastics used in the european union and 50% of paper are used on packaging alone. we must do something about it, and that is the purpose of the new package regulation. i think this proposal is good, firstly, that from 2030 all packaging must be recyclable. i think this proposal is good, and secondly that recovery and pledge systems are being set up in all european member states. and thirdly, i think it's good that the recycling rate in plastic packaging needs to be gradually increased. what is not appropriate is the many prohibitions on individual packaging formats. there's been talk of sugar, coffee capsules and stuff. it is also pointless to provide empty space quotas for beer cans or labelling rules for beer bottles; this has been corrected. but i think it is important above all that the systems that are in place in some member states and that serve the circular economy, especially in the field of recycling, can continue to exist. over many years and decades, circular systems have been built, and this work cannot be counteracted.
mr president, legislation on packaging and packaging waste is an important milestone on the road to a sustainable packaging economy in europe. it affects almost every producer, every distributor and therefore every consumer. but what's key is to emphasize the same conditions and the same rules for all. this legislation extends obligations to beverage producers, in particular non-alcoholic beverages, but is key to not discriminate against one another. packaging is a packaging regardless of what is in it, and it is important that they apply the same conditions to everyone. the target of 10% renewable packaging or reusable packaging by 2030, 25% by 2040 is achievable and any shortcomings can be addressed during this time. i therefore think that we should respect, especially at this stage, the same conditions for all, and i thank everyone who shares this vision and supports this proposal.
mr. speaker, each of us spends 188 kg of packaging and packaging per year, and packaging waste has increased by 20% over the last 10 years. it's time to start using resources wisely to protect the environment. in times of high inflation, packaging is often used to mislead consumers. bags, boxes, and even bottles stay the same, and the quantity decreases. we prohibit packaging that is intended to mislead consumers about the volume of the product, whether it be unnecessary layers, false bottom or other types of packaging. in fact, when we buy something, it's only when we get home that we realize we've been under the wrong impression of what we're actually buying, and then it's too late. with this law, we're going to root out the problem and allow citizens to get the best for their money.
mr president, our french cheeses are loved all over the world. but who can imagine a camembert or a golden mountain without its wooden frame? packaging them in plastic would be a taste and environmental aberration. the regulation on packaging and packaging waste should allow for a better functioning of the internal market and a better transition towards sustainable packaging. however, it is imperative to exclude wooden packaging from its scope to protect a unique knowhow which guarantees the quality of the products concerned. i am talking about cheese today, but other products from other countries are facing the same problems. europe must be able to protect the environment, but never at the expense of the specificities of its member states and therefore their prosperity. i would like to ask you to take a moment to explain why we are not here.
mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, needless to say that we have to put an end on the dramatic increase of packaging waste generation. but at the same time, we have to take into account the concerns coming from the market. various stakeholders raised the issue of effective implementation of packaging regulation. according to my opinion, it is critical to clear out that recyclable and reusable options are complementary. opting for the most circular packaging model should be the key objective of this regulation. definitions of recyclability and high quality of recycling still need to take into account both scientific evidence and the practical experience of well-functioning recycling system for certain materials. we can’t deal with a circular model if it is not recognised all the associated benefits of packaging made of renewable material. for instance, it will allow bio-based packaging to fulfil its potential. legal certainty is much needed also with our definition of composite packaging, of plastic packaging, to ensure compliance with the minimum recycling content targets in plastic packaging. finally, it would also be important for food packaging or packaging used for food ingredients, especially when it comes to smes – that should not be subjected to reuse targets, as those cannot be properly sterilised to be reused in safe condition and without incurring cross-contamination.
mr president, commissioner, there is too much packaging and waste produced today. we all are consumers in the union. we see that there are many good ways to reduce the waste. through the packaging that is measured right, avoid mini-scaled packaging, for example in hotels, recycling packaging materials so they do not end up in the waste fill and then also the circular economy can diminish needs for new materials through the reuse also we can find it somewhere. reuse does not fit everywhere, but there are ideas for that one also to be promoted. we have the single-use plastic regulation in place, but it is very narrow, so i expected something more to come. but what we see now that it was banning paper, it was banning composites, and actually what we see in mcdonald’s in france, adding plastic cups that comes from oil-based fossils that is imported from outside of europe and is not recyclable. so i hope the trilogues the best of luck not to replace reusable, renewable paper and composites with the plastic that is now happening. good luck.
mr president, i want to speak to you. mr sinkevičius, you mentioned at the beginning of the debate that we will only achieve our goal of reducing packaging waste by expanding the options for multiple ways. i think it's very important to use standardised lifecycle analysis in this context. there's no shortage of studies. each manufacturer produces its own, often with the desired results. i therefore call on the commission, which i also heard with rapporteur torvalds, to formulate uniform standards for life cycle analyses and make it all the more clear that you are basing your standards on comparable scientific criteria! we must also be able to have a better and more factual debate.
mr president, the establishment of a european green pact is an imperative. - it's a priority. some people are complaining, saying that everything is fine, or that everything will eventually be fine. it's all right. among all the measures we are trying to implement at union level to give future generations a chance and to tackle this growing source of waste, the new packaging rules have their place. on average, each european generates 188 kg of packaging waste per year. it's huge. this is 11 kilos more than the previous year. this shows us above all that legislation is essential on this issue, because since many companies do not understand for themselves that the resources of the planet are not inexhaustible, and they prefer to prioritize their own benefit over the general interest, there is no choice but to impose strict rules. and to those who say that no one in the world does this, i will say that we must start somewhere, and that if europe can be a pioneer in recycling, we should be very proud of it.
mr. chairman, thank you very much. today, colleagues and colleagues, we are faced with the challenge that defines our generation - handling packaging and packaging waste. we are all aware that the volume of packaging waste in the european union has increased from 66 million tonnes in 2009. ten years later, we had almost 70 million tons of waste. however, i stress the importance of clear regulation and legal certainty, as well as the inclusion of all relevant stakeholders, including e-commerce. but be careful about putting a burden on the manufacturer. this includes promoting the production of recyclable packaging, as well as developing infrastructure for recycling and reuse. clearly, our goal must be to create an economy that protects our planet. however, we must decide what is important and realize what is possible in circumstances which, let us be clear about this, are not the same in all the member states of the european union. so we're promoting packaging that will make our planet greener, yet we're setting priorities.
mr president, we are certainly in a very important debate. we all share the reduction targets. it is essential and europe must be at the forefront of this. but we must reconcile the ambition of some very ambitious targets with the reality of european companies that have been investing in innovation and research for years, with a focus on recycling. this can't be a penalty now. i mean, now the objectives are being identified with reuse, but high-percentage recycling must also be valued. another important issue for the committee on agriculture and rural development: let us seek consensus and support some of the improvements this report brings to the food chain which are essential through the amendments tabled. what are these amendments looking for? the reduction of packaging waste while maintaining food safety; the traceability of products with a knowledge of their origin and provenance; and the prevention of food waste. sometimes packaging helps us with this.
a uachtaráin, i come from killarney. my native town is the tourist capital of ireland and i am very pleased to see reference to it by my colleague here today. there is a very active tidytowns committee there, including, i am pleased to say, my wife, people like johnny mcguire, carmel foley, padraig tracey, louise byrne and former councillor mick gleeson. they saw that in ireland, the 200 million coffee cups in a population of 5 million were being used every year. the majority of these were not recycled, were not even composted, they went to landfill, and they said they do something about it. in the local community, over 50 businesses and growing are now having a cup which is reusable, which they all adhere to, saving a lot in terms of waste and particularly giving a good example to society at large. those cups which were up until now used for 13 minutes of their lifespan. this can be reused and honoured as they go along. i think there is a huge example here that people themselves, even if there is no legislation, will do something which has benefited to society and benefits particularly in eliminating waste.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, let me start with the very positive: first of all, truly thank you for your contributions, because they clearly showed that we are all seriously concerned about the rapid, unsustainable growth in packaging waste. we also understand that our task to set the framework for a resource-efficient packaging sector is a truly challenging one. the linear system of ‘take, make, throw away’ has vested itself deeply in our production and consumption patterns, and it will take considerable efforts and a change in mindset to bend the curve towards the circular economy for packaging. so we must ensure that the measures with significant implications for businesses are stretching but proportionate, that there is sufficient time for the transition, and that smes are not overburdened. both citizens and businesses expect us to act with ambition and realism, and we are determined more than ever to work together to ensure that all concerns are addressed and the commission is here to help and discuss. let me come back briefly on a few individual points that i think are extremely important to address. first of all, prices for consumers. i heard quite a few statements on prices for consumers. i ask you to use your common sense. all this shiny new packaging that we fill our bins with – 190 kg per year – this costs money to deal with. so we estimated that with our measures that we have on the table, consumers will actually save eur 100 per person per year. inaction, if we continue with the same scenario as we have now, would cost 6.4 billion relative to 2030, and that’s a cost for the economy, for the society, for the environment. very simple: less waste, less resources, less costs. and that’s good for both citizens and the environment. i’ve heard also quite a few remarks as regards the impact assessment, that it’s not sound, that there is no impact assessment. i want to reassure you that an impact assessment was done – a very careful one – and that the reuse targets lead to a decrease of water consumption and a reduction of co2 emissions of 1.25 million tonnes in 2030. the commission is fully aware that some lcas with a specific scope on certain sectors and based on arbitrary model assumptions can come with different results. the commission proposal, though, acknowledges the role of single-use packaging, and thus our proposal foresees a coexistence of both systems established in a way to reap the maximum economic and of course environmental benefits. now, on reuse, the architecture of the commission proposal builds on improvement of both reuse and recycling, and we cannot be naive that with these growing numbers of waste that we can recycle our way out of it. i am very sorry to take a bit more time, but i think it is extremely important to reply to the questions that the members of parliament have put forward. the last thing, which was very sensitive, on some of the packaging of some of the cultural heritage. so indeed, in the eu, certain food packaging made of wood, textiles, ceramics is placed on the market in very small quantities, and many of them protected by the food quality legislation. so the commission is aware that such packaging may have difficulties to be recycled at scale and is open for specific exemptions, notably where certain packaging materials or formats are required for specific food and products. finally, honourable members, let me assure you there will be no compromises when it comes to food safety, and we duly analyse the measures to avoid any increase of food waste. and when it comes to the impacts on the producers of single-use packaging, let me recall you that our approach foresees a coexistence. single-use packaging will not disappear. our analysis concludes that volumes for cardboard- and paper-based single-use packaging will flatline at the levels they reached a few years ago. so there is no disruption in a business case, because when the regulation kicks in, production levels would be still higher than a decade ago. honourable members, i think we are united in the task. we must do more to reverse the rising tide of packaging waste, and we must do it as soon as possible. most importantly, this will benefit the environment, reduce pollution and safeguard our single market. let’s listen to our citizens and provide solutions. and the commission is there to do its utmost to support agreement in the coming months. and of course, i count on you and i trust we can make it. sorry for taking a bit more time.
deputising for the rapporteur. – mr president, dear commissioner, with the commissioner we have been fighting on many issues before and usually we find solutions at the end of the day. that happened last week and it will happen this week and will happen next week. but i think we should be honest about one thing: this commission has produced twice the amount of legislation the previous commission did, and that actually led to a situation where we are running again with the commissioner in seconds blank to the next meeting, trying to find new solutions to another problem. at the same time, we know that everybody has been working under severe time constraints, and severe time constraints also influenced the way in which the impact assessment was done – and that was seen by the rapporteur, frédérique ries, in the very beginning when she tried to find a solution on article 26, and just to sort of accommodate the goals of the commission with the reality of the industry. on other important points we support the commission’s ambitions: obligation to recycle packaging by 2030; application of extended responsibility principle on packaging; harmonising labelling; introduction of deposit and return systems; and promotion of recycled content in plastic packaging. such profound changes towards the circular economy don’t happen overnight, and frédérique ries has put all her energy and experience into ensuring that the european parliament votes within the short time frame to make this regulation something feasible for the economic operators. circular economy of packaging will help decouple economic development from the use of natural resources, contribute to achieving climate neutrality by 2050, and reduce the eu’s economic strategic dependency on many materials. harmonised rules are key to remove the barriers for business selling packaging in several member states or across the eu caused by differing rules between the different member states. but i think we have to acknowledge also one thing: during the covid-19 pandemic, we actually learned a different way of behaving. and when human beings learn a different way of behaving, it’s very difficult to unlearn people from this behaviour. so that’s the project we have in front of us. the path mapped out is the right one. it’s up to the plenary session tomorrow to confirm this approach, and then we see how we manage together with commissioner sinkevičius the rest of the battle.
the debate is now closed. the vote will be held tomorrow. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. packaging is an increasingly important waste source: one european generated 177 kilograms of packaging waste in 2020. if nothing is done, this figure is projected to rise to 209 kilograms by 2030. while i support the overall european ambition to reduce packaging pollution, environmental measures should not at the same time cause trade barriers or market disturbances or deteriorate the functional characteristics of packaging. in other words, i did not support the environmental committee's proposal to return the glass bottles to the manufacturer instead of breaking them down and making a new packaging. transporting glass bottles back and forth thousands of miles away is neither practical nor environmentally friendly. the obligation to return the bottle should be at a distance. it also did not support proposals which are contrary to the objectives of reducing food waste, such as the installation of mandatory dosage rooms in the retail premises of stores. it would also reduce the product range and the range. i also do not consider it reasonable to ban the packaging of less than one kilogram of fruit and vegetables, which would increase the rate of food spoilage and reduce the choice.
in writing. packaging is used from production to consumption to protect products. at the same time, they are an increasing source of waste. every european produces 177 kilograms of packaging waste a year. paper, cardboard and plastic are the biggest offenders. i therefore support the european proposal to make all packaging recyclable by 2030 clear targets to significantly increase the share of recycled material in packaging and to prohibit certain types of packaging. this will not only promote our european climate and environmental objectives but also optimise the functioning of the internal market. we must, however, ensure that we treat sectors equally and that we do not propose unnecessary or unattainable matters. let us first focus on where the greatest gains are made, and also consider other challenges, such as hygiene or food waste. belgium is already a leader in this area, recycling up to 80% of packaging waste, as opposed to countries such as romania and malta, where this is only 40%.
written. the package and packaging waste regulation currently under consideration is of particular importance for finland. finland has invested heavily in renewable bio-based packaging, but the commission's proposal unfortunately does not identify the benefits of these packaging. the commission's proposal unilaterally set out a number of complete packaging bans and reuse requirements to reduce waste. to achieve europe's ambitious waste reduction targets, we need easier regulation and incentives instead of bans. we have made changes to the regulation in the epp group to better reflect the entire life cycle of the product. the regulation needs to take a wider account of the impact of packaging on many different areas: climate and food waste management, food safety and logistics. for example, instead of reusing take-away containers, it would be more reasonable to invest in better collection and recycling of packaging. also, the proposed requirements for bottle refilling are not reasonable. in the nordic countries we already have well-functioning bottle-building systems, the continuity of which must be ensured.
the minutes of yesterday’s sitting and the texts adopted are available. are there any comments? as that is not the case, then the minutes are approved.
pursuant to rule 158(2), on a proposal from the president and with the agreement of the political groups, i would like to inform the house that due to the length of the voting session, the sitting on wednesday is extended until 23.00.
the next item is the debate on the report by guy verhofstadt, sven simon, gabriele bischoff, daniel freund and helmut scholz, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on proposals of the european parliament for the amendment of the treaties (2022/2051(inl)) (a9-0337/2023). this reminds us that the conference on the future of europe, which took place in this room during two years, has not been forgotten by the representatives of the citizens.
rapporteur. – mr president, first of all, i want to thank also the spanish presidency for being here for this debate. it is much appreciated. we all have to recognise that since the approval of the lisbon treaty, that was quite a number of years ago, the world has changed dramatically. we have since then, over the last years, lived in a brutal world – the world of what i call empires – in which the sovereignty of the peoples and countries of europe can, in my opinion, only be secured through an enlarged european union and a more enhanced european union. i think that we have to be, in this debate today, honest with ourselves. that is, that we are for the moment, not ready for this more brutal world in which we have entered and also not ready for the absolute need for an enlarged european union to 35 or 37 member states. certainly not with russia that continues its aggression, or maybe with – hopefully not – a return of trump in the white house next year. the key problem that we face in our union is that too often we react too little too late, because we are paralysed by the request for unanimity in our decision-making. i will not give the whole list, the list is long, but a few examples. it has now been months that we have not been capable of deciding on a 12th sanction package against russia. we are not capable of refinancing the european peace facility to send new weaponry to ukraine because of unanimity. and we were for a decade not capable of doing something against illegal migration because we enclosed ourselves in unanimity. so vetoes and blackmail have become in the european union, i would say, the standard practice. and if we find a consensus, then we go to the general assembly of the un and then we vote one third in favour, one third against and one term third abstains. so the question with this report is how to change this. the passerelles, dear colleagues, let’s be honest, have failed. and the reason they have failed is that because there is not one smaller or medium member state, not even spain, poland or italy, who is ready to give up its veto to strengthen, in fact, the de facto combined veto right of france and germany under the current rules. therefore this report, i think, is critical and important because we will fundamentally change this by creating a qualified majority by two thirds of the member states, representing 50% of the population, and dramatically increasing doing so the position of small- and medium-sized member states. we introduce also reinforced qualified majority for important decisions, like, for example, the budget, own resources or the coming into force of treaty modifications. i think that this way is the way to overcome the unanimity trap in which the european union has come and fall in for years now. in the same spirit, what this report is doing is also reforming article 7, giving an enhanced role to the european court of justice, so that maybe it can work in the future. enhancing also subsidiarity to the national parliaments and the regional parliaments with legislative power by giving a green card, which does not exist today. and then also increasing european democracy by giving more power to our parliament, for example, the possibility to take initiatives or also to decide on the income side of the budget and finally, new competences like in defence, health, energy and climate change. i want to conclude, mr president and dear colleagues, by saying let us not make a mistake when we vote tomorrow. and i say that especially to those who are today, by twitter and by other means, attacking this reform of the european union. this report will not change the treaty overnight. this report does not create a european superstate, which is completely ridiculous if we remember that the budget of the european union is 1% of the european gdp – i do not think with 1% of european gdp, dear colleagues, that we are a superstate. the truth is that the approval of this report is needed to start the process, to make use of article 48, so that the european council can start the work, so that we can enlarge the union, we can further unify the continent and be ready for the huge challenge ahead of us. and i would ask you, do not miss that historic opportunity tomorrow.
rapporteur. – mr president, colleagues, do we change the treaties with this report? no. this week we have to answer two questions. first, do we want a convention to discuss treaty change? second, is this draft a sufficient basis to open up a discussion? my answer to those questions is ‘yes’. 16 years ago, the lisbon treaty was signed. but the world has changed since then. we are facing new challenges. the financial crisis, brexit, migration, russia’s war on ukraine are forcing us to act. i have with this report three priorities. i want the european union to become more focused, more capable to act, and more democratically accountable. it is not about old ideas of federalism versus the europe of nations. it is about improving the european union where it really matters to the europeans. we must create a defence union, bringing the defence industries together in order to be able to defend ourselves, which is not the case today. colleagues, if you think about the fact that we in europe have 178 main weapon systems and the united states has 30, it comes with no surprise that we waste taxpayers’ money – pay more, get less. we must strengthen our energy cooperation to achieve energy independence and decarbonisation. we must ensure that the internal energy market does not just exist on paper, but also functions in reality. i want to fulfil the voters – my voters’ – demands and protect our borders against illegal migration and trans-national crime. but for this, we have to change and amend the treaties. the european union does nearly have no competency and we are blocked by vetoes and unnecessary bureaucracy. it is true that we need to improve the protection of the rule of law, but the legal procedure needs to be in front of a court. this would stop the blame game in this house, which doesn’t bring us any further, but divides us all the more. it was a structural mistake of the lisbon treaty that the european elections have no influence on the commission, on the composition of the commission. we need a european commission that can be elected and voted out of office. colleagues, this report is a very substantial one. it may be those are right who say it is simply too much, too difficult to understand, not the right time, and too difficult to explain, especially when you have to fight against right-wing populists at home who instrumentalised the whole thing. i’m also aware that we have totally different debates in different member states. but those colleagues who are concerned, let me say: this is a very first step on a long road to go; a road that requires the consent of all member states; that will include lengthy discussions. as in any compromise in this house, it is not a perfect report for anyone. every political group had to make concessions, but at the end of the day, there are again two questions on the table. first, do we want a convention? second, do we think that this draft is a sufficient basis to open up a discussion? not more, not less. for me, the answer to those questions is a very convinced yes. colleagues, we have no time to waste. depending on the outcome of the next us election, europe is only a little more than a year away from losing its nuclear umbrella. we need to wake up. we as europeans need to grow up as a union and grow up fast. the way to get there is through a reform of competences and institutions. let us take the first step by voting for this report.
the rapporteur. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. i am also pleased that the commission is represented at such a high level. in fact, as sven simon said, we are going to take another step tomorrow. in the party i belong to, there has been a saying about mobilization for over 150 years, and it says: it never fights badly for freedom and justice. and what we want to do is take the first step to make sure that we don't hang around in the details. we always try to deal with the next crisis just like that, but we can't really prepare for the future. it has already been said here: everyone is talking about the huge geopolitical challenges we have to overcome, and about how fast the world is turning and how it has changed since we signed the treaty of lisbon. we've had global financial crises, we've had pandemics, we've had wars, we've had trumpism, we've had populism on the way, we've had a lot of challenges. i think that the commission has made a very clear point, and i am very pleased that you, mr president, have reminded us once again that the conference on the future of europe was held in this area and that we have taken up this spirit, these proposals made by the citizens, and tried to translate them into amendments to the treaties. why are we doing this? we're not doing this because we have nothing better to do. we do this because we know that the european union is our guarantor of freedom, progress and security, in a world that is changing dramatically. it's been said here before: a key point and that was also something that the citizens wrote us in the diary is unanimity. we're not fast enough. we have seen this in the sanctions package, but also in other issues where we really need to act quickly and unitedly. that's why it's so important that we replace that. but we do not do this simply, but we make a proposal where we really say: we have three new alternatives, a triangle: a simple majority, a qualified majority where we give more consideration to the small member states, and a super-qualified majority. simply to ensure that, depending on what is appropriate, we apply it accordingly, but not to give more veto power, not more quarter-times with each action. we are also clear that we are discussing enlargement again. and i think if we want to be safe in the future, play a role in the world, then expansion is extremely important. reform and enlargement are two sides of the same coin. you won't get one alone, nor, i think, does it make sense to reject the other. that's why it's important. imagine if we had 35 vetoes in the future, we have 35 commissioners, commissioners. it's clear we need to be more aggressive and positioned. i think the union is a promise, a promise that it is also equipped to do so when we look at fighting the pandemic. this is why it was so important to us that the union needs new competences, especially in the field of health policy, in the face of crossborder challenges. we have experienced this, and we must now take the step to do so. the same is true of the citizens who have told us that they really want fair working conditions in europe, including labour markets, a strong social policy. we have also taken this into account and taken it into account. i want to end with one. willy brandt said we have to get more democracy. and it's very important that we strengthen democracy in europe because democracy is under pressure. i would like to conclude by saying that we must not beg, we must not ask, we must only argue courageously.
the report is not yet available. the commission has already taken a number of steps. the introduction of the global minimum tax viktor orbán vetoes. eu sanctions against russia viktor orbán vetoes his decision. eu aid to ukraine viktor orbán vetoes the decision. i'm going to vote for you. my colleagues, we all know the game. the time has come for every time a unanimous decision is taken to veto viktor orbán, either to free up eu money or to paralyze the eu in the words of vladimir putin. a principle once written into the eu treaties to protect individual, especially small member states is reversed. it is enough that a head of state or government is blackmailed, bribed, pushed, and europe is blocked. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the subject of the european parliament's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. the european parliament is now taking a historic step. we are for the first time introducing treaty amendments and what europe really needs, what citizens expect from us: more democracy, a strong democracy, a resilient democracy. we are breaking down the shackles that hold europe back. what we decide here has the potential to make europe truly fit for a world where a wild-eyed dictator in the kremlin is invading indiscriminate states and where every four years we have to worry about whether america is a partner. in a world of trump and putin, europe can no longer afford to agree on the smallest common denominator. and yes, i know, right here in the european parliament, right here, they are thumping, pis and fidesz, side by side. we would abolish the nations, we would install the soviet dictatorship. what a right-wing populist nonsense! it is no coincidence that those who have broken democracy at home with the hammer of the sword are now going to the barricades when we are building and strengthening democracy here in europe. i would like to ask the commissioner if he can make a statement on the matter, and if he can, i would like to ask him if he can, if he can, make a statement on the matter. i know that when it comes to amendments to the treaties, many in this house say: this is impossible, it is difficult to get through in the end; the member states may not agree to this. but i've heard that over and over since the future conference started. and tomorrow we will now, with a large majority here in this european parliament, put forward this report: abolish unanimity, strengthen this parliament, reduce the commission, finally ensure that we can really defend europe's values. 140 pages and almost every single proposal is a little revolution. we need the member states to take the next step. and yes, the council has done far too little to take this reform process seriously. but think about it the next time you're frustrated with the orbán government representatives lecturing you about the globalist global conspiracy that the eu is running. with this, with what we are presenting, there is a roadmap for real eu reforms, a roadmap that strengthens european democracy, a roadmap that abolishes vetoes and allows europe to speak with one voice in the world. and this plan, the report on a new european union, we are presenting here from the european parliament, from the house of european democracy. i believe it was a great day - not only for this parliament but also for the european union.
mr president, i want to speak to you. this house wants to implement the proposals of the conference on the future of europe for an eu state. this includes the leyen eu migration pact, which aims to facilitate migration and even accelerate citizenship so that fewer and fewer eu citizens will be europeans in the future. that's why you want to abolish the dublin system. but dublin does not need to be replaced, it just needs to be followed. the power of the ecj must not be extended but should be limited, since luxembourg is not an impartial court, but rather follows an ultra-flexible legal methodology contrary to the vienna convention on contractual law, thus bending the law in the interest of the eu and its waking ideas. this is why the priority of eu law over national law should not be extended but rather reduced. there are currently no appeals against a judgment of the ecj. this may be tolerable for technical legal issues which do not affect the distribution of power between the eu and member states. but where vital national interests are at stake, member states need a last resort jurisdiction. the lesson from history is that the ec was successful because it was not overpowering. but with maastricht our steady economic decline began. we need a division of power, because an all-powerful eu is ruining us, especially in the case of migration.
mr president, this is not a regular debate. this is not a regular proposal that we are making. this is a very foundational proposal that is happening. and i am very proud and happy that i can actually live in this moment where we, as the european parliament, trying to change the european union. and we really have to fix the european union because it is under attack. we might not see the cracks in the wall, but i can definitely hear the hammering and the banging of the far right, really trying to undermine this union as we speak. and if we look beyond this place where we already hear this and we look outside and we see, for example, in foreign policy, viktor orbán shaking hands with putin, while putin is at the same time attacking ukraine and killing ukrainian citizens, it is becoming very obvious. when we look west and we see the us again in the grip of the far-right populists, we know that we have to really do something. so i appeal to you, colleagues, to live up to this responsibility, to understand the history, the historic moment that we currently live in and vote in favour of changing the european union, of fixing the european union so that it is able to act and live for the next 50, 100, 200 years. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question)
blue-card answer. – i’m very happy that maybe soon the blaming of poland can end. i think that’s a very positive development. from my perspective, the question is really of how we can ensure that we are able to act on a european union level. there might be examples when other member states have also been blocking and vetoing things that are in the common interest of the european union. but i think what’s core is that we have to make sure that we are able to act on the european union level. this is not about disempowering national parliaments; it’s making sure that the things we decide on the european level are decided by a european government that is backed by a european parliament, and this is where we have to go.
the rapporteur. the commission has already taken a number of steps. i think it was an important debate we had here, as the end of a long process where compromise was really being fought because between six groups mr saryusz-wolski also just came in and there were five more in the end. it's a pretty stressful process. but that's the core of democracy, that we're fighting for compromise. and this will continue if we have a convention and then we have to fight with even more stakeholders, which is the right way to make europe sustainable. and europe is more than just a cash machine. europe is the answer to the question that we need peace, progress and security in europe and that we will gain sovereignty only if we really pool our forces here, together, in so many areas. what happens to states, to companies that can't reform when the environment changes? they're going down. that's why it's important that we make sure we adapt. and then you can argue about the right way and we have had a lot of arguments, even among the rapporteurs. we agreed to a compromise, and i don't like everything about it either. but that is the essence of compromise and then big pacts. i therefore call once again on you to take this step, because if we do not take it, there will be no further steps. and i think that the citizens have written very clearly to us in the diary that change is needed, even for their future. i want to say again to the id and ecr faction, i think you've seen this today: they do not want to argue about which better way europe wants to go, they want to make europe go round. and i think that's something that the majority of people in their countries, including citizens, don't want. (intermittent calls)
rapporteur. – mr president, those colleagues that in this debate have spoken the most about sovereignty seem to have the least understood what sovereignty actually is. we had colleagues here, one of the friends of you, nigel farage, who said he is going to bring all that sovereignty back to the united kingdom. it seems that the kind of sovereignty that he brought back to the uk is more the kind of sovereignty that a country like north korea really has a lot of: nothing in the supermarkets; no gas at the gas station; no workers to keep the health sector going; the worst economic performance of any developed economy that we have seen since the moment that they left the union. so, all of you on the right have abandoned that same dream that, when nigel left, you were still saying, ‘well, my country is going to be the next that leaves.’ now you’re not saying that anymore. sovereignty on things like climate change, sovereignty on things like taxing large corporations, sovereignty to defend yourself against russia. none of that sovereignty lies in any of our small member states. none of us can do that alone. but there is a chance for sovereignty at eu level. if we work together, then we can act on these issues. so, the question whether abolishing the veto takes away sovereignty from small member states, it’s the question of: do you want to have a veto in a system that looks like north korea or do you want to have your democratic say, your votes, in a european democracy that can actually deliver? that’s the question. and i don’t want to go into a north korea-style system that you guys keep dreaming about.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. the commission has already taken a number of steps. 250 million euros more for humanitarian aid at a time when we can use every cent of it. eur 60 million more to enable young people from low-income families and regions to participate in the erasmus programme. and 20 million euros more for our nature and biodiversity. the budget shows whether you mean sunday talk. we members have again faced irresponsible budgetary cuts from the council in this year's budgetary negotiations. we have succeeded in preventing these cuts and in jointly enforcing strong political priorities. we are strengthening programmes for civil society such as the 'rights and values' programme or the 'cultural programme for creative europe'. we are strengthening the european public prosecutor's office to take decisive action against corruption and fraud. we are shortening the inefficient iter merger programme and taking advantage of the scope of more efficient management. the budgetary negotiations were worthwhile. it was also possible because we were once again together, and i would like to thank our two rapporteurs, siegfried mureșan and nils ušakov, for this. thank you for your good cooperation. we greens therefore very, very gladly agree to the budget tomorrow. but the budget is tight. the only way out is to revise the multiannual financial framework. the eu needs more flexibility to respond to crises and to invest in our future. the judgment of the federal constitutional court on the german federal budget will further complicate these negotiations in the coming weeks. that is why our appeal to berlin is also: we need a policy that enables future investment and does not lead to the migration of companies and the unemployment of people. we will fight for this together here in parliament, i am sure of that. the next few weeks are going to be exciting, and i'm still hoping for good cooperation here in this house.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. i too have a question which is a little in the direction of my colleague andrius kubilius. we have read in general salushny's paper basically everything that is needed to ensure that ukraine can finally win this terrible war. but we've also heard from the ukrainian analysts and experts that you need to be flexible in many places. the russian side is doing that. it's very flexible, very short-term, and things are being redesigned from the bottom up. and i also ask myself: how can we do this in europe? how can we become faster, more adaptable, more flexible? what is the eu doing about it? that's the one. and you said that military planning ultimately failed at the council. could you go into more detail? were there some countries, some nation states, that were determined against it, that could not deliver, did not want to? we know that russia currently produces two million rounds of ammunition a year. and they're still pushing their war economy forward. and we haven't even been able to produce 15 percent of the volume so far. so how do we close this gap once qualitatively and once quantitatively?
i would like to say briefly that it is important to me that we also support areas where ukraine is currently lagging behind in the electronic sector, in the communications sector , faster, better and more. is that possible?
both in the united states and in our country there is a fierce debate about the continuation of aid to ukraine. in view of the catastrophic economic developments in germany, but also in view of the course of the war, this question is only consistent. keyword: failed summer campaign; and it's becoming increasingly clear that this war cannot be won. even the proponents of these insane financial aid, arms and ammunition supplies must now realize that another problem is much more urgent and important: the massive staff shortage in ukraine after tens of thousands of soldiers were sent to their deaths for nothing. mr commissioner, how do we ensure that in the medium term the shortage of defensive men in ukraine is compensated? should nato intervene and risk a third world war, or what should the future of the country be like without all these men?
- madam president, please. i'd like to stay on the subject. commissioner, you just answered a question from renew that we could also produce hypersonic missiles. so, i'm not aware of any of this, and we're actually at this early stage of research, and in three years' time, we could be putting the first shot, a test shot, in fact. do you have any more information on this?
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. in budapest, posters are hanging again, with commission president ursula von der leyen near a supposed globalist world conspiracy meaning dumb lies with a decent portion of anti-semitism, paid for with tax money. but we must say that orbán is probably the one who is out of ideas, because we all had these posters five years ago with jean-claude juncker and the elder soros. so instead of finally reforming the rule of law and thus freeing up the 28 billion euros that the hungarian citizens so desperately need, they are making lies posters all over the country. i think this government still doesn't take the reforms seriously. i do not consider orbán a reliable negotiating partner. the commission has not yet been able to find a way to achieve this. why don't you suspend the preparatory talks for the council presidency? why is the money still flowing not frozen? 3 billion euros of eu money went to hungary this year alone? and now we are talking about whether the prefinancing for repowereu should not be paid. i don't think that's such a good idea. please make it clear that this is not going to happen. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i don't know if you know where we are. we are here in the european parliament. we're making policy here for the whole of europe. if i wanted to deal with the german federal government, i would have run for the german bundestag. i am here in the european parliament and i am therefore concerned with what we are doing in the european union. otherwise, all i can say is, you can find my resume online. i've never worked for the soros foundation. i'm very proud to have worked for transparency international for five years. this is a different organization, but it seems to be the same thing to you. but you can read on the internet.
madam president, dear colleagues, the rule of law is non-negotiable. our laws and values are not worth the paper they are written on if they are systematically broken. and i want to be very clear with our colleagues from the far right: this is not about political differences. it is not about having different opinions on certain issues. it is about undermining the exact stage where democracy is happening. and this is not sacred. this is dirty. it is dirty to steal public money and to give it to your friends. it is dirty if you shake the hands of a dictator that is currently bombing in ukraine. it is dirty if you have unfair elections where you manipulate your citizens to vote for you. this is dirty and this is not politics, this is not democracy – it is the undermining of democracy. and therefore, i want to thank the commissioners for being quite strong and upholding the rule of law by cutting the funds and making sure that this also stays the same until orbán decides to actually be positive for his own people, for the hungarian people, who are not the same and unlock these funds by following simply our rule of law. it is not so complicated. and i would also ask our dear countries to review their bilateral relationships also economically, also in germany, to see whether we have to be even stricter with the hungarian government now.
the debate is closed.
the next item on the agenda is the report by mr danjean on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs on the eu's strategic compass and space defence abilities (2022/2078(ini)) (a9-0334/2023). i would point out that the groups have agreed that there will be only one round of group discussions, so neither spontaneous wording nor blue cards are accepted.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 23 november 2023.
the next item on the agenda is the discussion of the council and commission statements on recent developments at the eu external border between finland and russia and the need to comply with eu law (2023/2999(rsp)).
the debate is closed. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 171.
the next item on the agenda is the brief presentation of the report by carlos zorrinho on behalf of the committee on development on the drafting of an innovative strategy for humanitarian aid in the face of current and forgotten crises (2023/2000(ini)) (a9-0321/2023).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 23 november 2023. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 171.
the next item on the agenda is the brief presentation of the report by sara matthieu on behalf of the employment and social affairs committee on the creation of jobs fair transition and sustainable investment (2022/2170(ini)) (a9-0342/2023).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 23 november 2023.
the next item on the agenda is the brief presentation of the report by cristina maestre martín de almagro on behalf of the committee on regional development on talent development in the regions of europe (2023/2044(ini)) (a9-0325/2023).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 23 november 2023.
the next item on the agenda is the explanations for the vote.
the explanations for the vote are closed.
the next meeting will be held tomorrow, wednesday 22 november 2023, at 9.00 a.m. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the minutes of this meeting will be submitted to parliament tomorrow after the vote for approval. we would like to thank the interpreters who gave us a quarter of an extra hour.
mr president, i want to speak to you. in the face of all the legitimate concerns about the humanitarian crisis in gaza, the suffering of the population, the civilian victims, the essential must not be forgotten: the cause of this suffering is the barbaric terror of hamas. terror that lasts. every day hamas fires rockets at israeli civilians, abuses the people of gaza as protective shields, including over 200 hostages in its violence. it is in the hands of hamas to end the suffering, to silence the weapons, and to do this the release of all hostages is compulsory. but for real peace, the terror of hamas must end. would it be reasonable to think that israelis and palestinians are doing this together? to hope that leaders with personality, even with their own painful experiences of losing loved ones, will stand up for ending this conflict? to believe that politicians are willing to put aside their power interests and work towards a common future? in europe, this has been achieved since the second world war. we need a new moment in oslo, and we as the eu should do everything we can to support this.
mr president, as we debate, families in israel are mourning children, parents, spouses barbarically killed by hamas terrorists on 7 october. they fear for the lives of hostages, and they are seeking shelter from ongoing hamas shelling. in gaza, people are mourning their children, parents, spouses who have become victims of israel’s shelling of civilian infrastructure. they fear for those who remain exposed to ongoing airstrikes and suffer under the siege of gaza. all human beings have the right to live in safety and freedom. demanding this for one group does not question this right in relation to another group. empathy is not a zero-sum game. the announced release of hostages linked to a temporary truce offers a new glimpse of hope to end the spiral of violence. the european union, together with the un, arab states and the us, must facilitate a process where both israelis and palestinians can work on solutions to live side by side in peace. hopefully for good this time.
mr president, i want to speak to you. we have no influence on the course of the war or the release of hostages in this conflict. the eu is completely out of the way, it does not even play a political role and will not play any role all day dreams. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a more detailed explanation of the situation. the anti-semitic demonstrations of the predominantly muslim mob in our streets should be a wake-up call for all of us. there is an urgent need for action to finally stop islamization here in europe. but what was done after these demonstrations of power? have islamists been expelled, organizations banned, illegal migrants deported, a recruitment ban imposed? nothing like that, nothing! in germany, taliban officials travel without the government's knowledge, giving hate speeches in ditib mosques. why are islamists allowed to continue to spread their incitement? will the eu watch islamization until it is complete? we are not going to be able to do this without the help of the european parliament. let's focus on what we can do, not on our daydreams!
on behalf of the id group. – madam president, honourable prime minister, allow me to congratulate you on your decision to order an investigation into the 2023 bulgarian-turkish gas deal concluded by your predecessor. the southern gas corridor, we all know, is used to launder russian gas via turkey, and to circumvent eu sanctions, which so far have had little effect on the russian economy. the european commission knows this full well, as its eur 400 million subsidy agreement with the gas corridor contains a secrecy clause, which prohibits any probe into the provenance of the gas. in other words, former prime minister borisov was given a free licence to launder russian gas in return for his loyal support for mrs merkel and her party throughout his years in the council. moreover, under the gas deal, bulgargaz has to pay turkey’s state owned gas company botaş an annual service fee of eur 2 billion. northern european citizens are paying cohesion funds to bulgaria, which bulgaria then appears to be handing over to erdoğan. eu policy, it seems, is riddled with hypocrisy. on bulgarian accession to schengen, i agree with the position taken by the austrian and dutch governments. we need to reform schengen before we can talk about schengen expansion. there’s also the regrettable issue of bulgarian officials selling schengen visas to illegal migrants. of course, the main culprit here is germany, which is creating pull factors for migrants to enter via southern europe, and resisting credible rules for pushbacks and comprehensive repatriation of illegal migrants. we therefore call on the bulgarian government to help us in the fight for ambitious migration reform in the eu. then i can’t imagine your application finally to join the schengen system would pose too many problems.
in the name of the id faction. i am not going to say anything. i want to do this in german. the amendment is our amendment 376 part 2, for which our id faction has requested a vote in the name, and it is in due course. and in this current list, which was published this morning, which is actually scandalous, which was actually circulated this morning, this is not listed, and therefore i ask that this vote be added.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. i am not going to say anything. made in europe products are in demand worldwide from medium-sized automotive suppliers to global players such as airbus in danube or toulouse. there are good reasons for that. it is clear that in order to succeed in global competition, companies in europe must be flexible and innovative, and we must take the reports of too much bureaucracy seriously. entrepreneurs need to get on with their business, instead of drowning in paper floods at their desk. and there is really no event i have with entrepreneurs where there is no discussion on bureaucracy and that has to happen in brussels. the commission has made a first leap with its sme relief package, from simplified tax rules to improved methodology for reporting on esf issues, because this is a recurring issue and national governments can do a lot too. the german federal ministry of economics has just submitted a concept paper against bureaucracy, with the right solutions from practical and digital checks to the networking of national transparency registers. the problem is recognized, which means that it needs the solutions now. but i am still warning against artificial over-regulation, because some conservative colleagues even here in the european parliament use this important task de-bureaucracy as a political code for 100% deregulation and also as an attack on the green deal. and to go along with meaningful eu legislation instead of looking at exactly what needs to be changed in a really responsible way is, of course, not responsible policy but simply populism. what we need instead are fewer, clear, simple and transparent rules that support innovation and competitiveness in businesses while also benefiting consumers and the environment and this is exactly what is happening in a sustainable economy made in europe.
the honourable lady chairman, the commissioner! the world economy has been in serious crisis in recent years, including for european enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. it was a period of rising costs, production cuts and a struggle for survival. we're in for a process of rebuilding our potential. we need to restore strategic autonomy in many sectors where we have been moving production to third countries for years, extending supply chains. this will require reducing the number of regulations and reducing the disconnected emissions reduction targets that have driven jobs out of europe. also in the new technology sector, such as artificial intelligence, we need to leave more freedom for innovation that we produce very little in the european union. the regulations we're working on now must encourage research and development. the excessive administrative burden is a recipe for an even greater dependence on imported technology.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. we are in the last year of a legislature where there has been a massive increase in new regulations. yes, some were justified because we have legally anchored our climate targets, as well as the instruments needed to do so. we had to change our energy supply because of the war, and new product specifications were also needed for a more resource efficient economy. but the commission and particularly the left-wing of parliament have done a lot of extra work especially to expect companies to report on the most detailed sustainability reporting requirements and to make financing opportunities increasingly dependent on these. for many small and medium-sized enterprises, i can tell you that this has led to a burnout of bureaucracy. and that is fatal. smes are our innovative backbone, and in berlin, for example, small firms with fewer than six employees are the main employers. we in the epp are now fighting in every dossier for a 'less is more' and perhaps saying 'unusually radical for us: we do not need this commission proposal at all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. what are we talking about here today? 7.5 million people who have lost everything in hong kong in the last three years, if you think about western or global values, not only freedom, but dignity has been lost. it is indisputable that within three, three and a half years the communist party will have to raise or socialize 7.5 million people here who were born in an official language, english, but now live in a communist dictatorship. if we look at over 60 percent of the schools in china that are christian, there's not even a stop to religious freedom here. we must, and this is my firm conviction, also place the spotlight on the chinese communist party, because i am firmly convinced that what is happening there in hong kong must not become the seat of other autocrats around the world. and that means for us that we need to talk about this at the summit now, europe-china, and make it clear to the world what happened in hong kong in the last three years.
mr president, i want to speak to you. we will act against putin's aides and we will act against all those who help russia bypass sanctions or replenish its arsenal. with this very strong promise, commission president ursula von leyen has called for the fight against russia's helpers in the european union. the cyprus confidential research shows that unfortunately, there is far too little action behind these words: a hundred sanctioned russians are doing business in cyprus uninterrupted. russian money continues to flow in large quantities through cyprus into the european union. cyprus has been the gateway to russian money for many years. and despite full-blown announcements also by the cypriot governments it has not yet been possible to break with this practice. we must take decisive action against money laundering and sanctions evasion. we need clear rules for disclosing oligarchic assets like luxury yachts, paintings or private jets. it is unacceptable that member states are currently blocking more transparency in the negotiations on the money laundering package, thus making it easier for oligarchs to hide their wealth in the european union. we need to be more concerned with the role of audit firms such as pricewaterhousecoopers; they're not playing a good role. they're helping russian oligarchs hide their wealth in the european union. and now it is time for the european commission to act in case of emergency against cyprus, because those who avoid sanctions must expect to be sanctioned themselves.
mr president, commissioner, even a general overview of the icij cyprus confidential files based on seven leaked records raises enormous concern. almost 100 billionaires and oligarchs have been able to evade imposed sanctions both post crimea annexation and post february 2022, a full scale invasion, were able to evade sanctions thanks to european financial services systems, predominantly cypriot but not only, thus enhancing putin’s possibility to maintain further aggression and war crimes in ukraine. commissioner, you rightly raised the issue of beneficiary ownership records. we have to work on this because it is important, but we have to carefully overview the issue. it is certainly extremely disturbing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the events in cyprus show that it is really high time that we finally adopt and create a uniform regulatory framework in the union with the new regulation. but it has also become clear that we need to put more emphasis on the real priorities. while we are negotiating between the european parliament and the council here which merchants or football clubs we want to impose additional obligations, elsewhere russian black money is being laundered completely uninterrupted and sanctions are being circumvented and generous golden visas are being issued. the stricter rules we have been negotiating for over two years are of no use if some member states do not take sufficient care to implement the rules already in force. the member states must also want to catch the big fish. the commission must finally act and ensure that the current rules and sanctions are also enforced. only then will the new rules, which we negotiate with great commitment, make sense.
mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, rule of law and democracy have always been the rock-solid foundations of our union. that is our strength. these foundations have been made criteria to become an eu member in copenhagen 30 years ago, to all those aspiring to join. it was true then as it is true now. yet today we live in a world of clash between rule of law and rule of gun, between democracies and autocracies, between a rule-based order and a world of aggression. eu enlargement is a moment of truth for europe. our investment in enlargement today will make us more independent and secure tomorrow. i would like to underline two guiding principles for that endeavour. firstly, enlarging our union is eu’s geopolitical necessity, but it is also a geopolitical choice, a choice that must be loud and clear; a choice, in the case of the serbian president, which is incompatible with authoritarian tendency in cosying-up with beijing and moscow. secondly, copenhagen criteria entail the process and progress based on merits. this means making sure that the judiciary plays an independent role in fighting corruption and organised crime, and standing with us in foreign policy – more important today than ever. dear friends in the western balkans, in ukraine, moldova and georgia: enlargement is a choice for us, but also a choice to you. so it is up to you to move forward with credible reforms as the eu has finally woken up to the call of history.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. months in jail rapper toomadsch salehi is out on bail. the news that reached us this weekend shows that public pressure is working. it makes a difference. people are behind the often anonymous numbers and reports of political prisoners being held. people and their stories of courage and resistance. courage and resistance that the iranian regime wants to break. in solitary confinement with torture. the imprisoned rapper saman yasin even writes about fake executions in letters. the psychological and physical violence of this regime is appalling. they are methods of a regime that has nothing but this violence. it breaks my heart to see the fronts in the diaspora tightening up, the people increasingly seeking to break up instead of relying on solidarity, on cohesion right now for saman, for jamshid, for arash, for nahid, for all political hostages, for a free iran. for women, for life, for freedom.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not going to be able to do this. today is the international day for the elimination of violence against women. and like every year, we find warm words, but they don't help, because things get worse. more domestic violence, more murders, more rapes, much more gang rape, more genital mutilation. and who are the perpetrators? yes, they are men; but unfortunately, far too often these men are migrants. the same migrants who took to the streets in germany and celebrated hamas. they have celebrated hamas for mass rapes and subsequent beheading of women. even before they killed babies, these beasts didn't stop. and these people are celebrated! in my hometown of essen, 3,000 islamists were on the streets. 3,000 who made it clear that they hate jews, who made it clear that they hate gays, and who made it very clear that women are completely worthless to them. if you want to protect women, you must finally push back, because these people have nothing to do with their attitude in germany and in europe. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. mass rape and subsequent beheading of women: this must be openly discussed, even in this european parliament. because i'm not willing to tolerate that.
mr president, violence against women is the most widespread violation of human rights in the world, since about one in three women has been subjected to violence, such as beatings and injuries, sexual harassment or, in the worst case, femicide or so-called honour crimes, at least once in their lives. and all these forms are being witnessed in europe. this is in addition to child pornography, trafficking and the seclusion of women, which are fuelling the sex industry, which is experiencing an unprecedented economic boom. although 125 countries condemn domestic violence, as it has a serious impact on the psychology of victims and puts women at risk, they are lazy to legislate, as well as to introduce, for example, the concept of consent. violence against women is an assault on their integrity, and is also sometimes a weapon used in conflict areas. we must therefore fight a fierce battle to integrate rape into the directive. for rape, if it's a sexual act, is a disgusting crime. it must be integrated so that the union can become the continent that has eradicated gender-based violence.
mr president, i want to speak to you. we have heard today how many different faces violence against women and girls has. i would like to talk about digital violence first of all today, because every day women are being insulted, harassed and threatened on social media. and these messages are penetrating our privacy very quickly, because we all have our phones always at hand. one in ten women in the eu has experienced online harassment. that's a terrible number, but not a terrible surprise. i'm one of them, and i'd bet many of my colleagues here have been harassed online, too, because when women are exposed, when they have a strong opinion, they are quickly overwhelmed with hostility and harassment especially often fired by political parties here on the right side of the house. we cannot allow women to withdraw from public spaces, to stay away from debates, because they must be afraid, afraid for their physical and mental health and safety. we need to take online harassment as seriously as any offline harassment. and we must follow this with the utmost of the rule of law, because a living democracy needs strong female voices in the discourse.
the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. yes means yes, no means no, and we have repeated this demand mantra-like every time for generations. my mother took to the streets in the early 1970s for a similar, comparable demand. and we keep repeating it over and over again. i think we can say, "don't raise your daughters, raise your sons". and mr bushmann, to you: your blockade of this law, this directive here is a disgrace to the european union! i don't understand that what germany has already ratified, like the istanbul convention, and now i'm coming to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, where something similar is coming in. one in two women with disabilities is a victim of violence! the kind of violence we can choose. and that germany, that minister bushmann of the fdp is blocking this place and saying there is no legal basis, is just a lie.
in writing. today we commemorate the international day for the elimination of violence against women. let us recall the tragic story from my former hometown of limburg, where in 2019 a woman was hit by her husband's car and then attacked in the open with an axe. i would have liked to have attended the mourning march in her honour personally, but i have sent my deepest condolences to limburg from the european parliament and would like to commemorate her here today. a culture of disregard for women is spreading throughout europe. some men and groups of men measure their masculinity by the cruelty with which they gain respect for themselves and restore their so-called honor. end with symbolic, hypocritical expressions of concern: to tolerate a culture that disrespects women does not eliminate violence against women, but it encourages it! this culture of disregard for women has lost nothing in europe. that is why it was as true then as it is today: islam is not part of europe!
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. the digitalisation of cooperation is urgently needed and it is good that we are driving it forward. europe and its justice systems: yes, we are growing stronger together, and digital means are part of that. and yes, that gives us a chance. for example, access to justice will be improved so that the judiciary can become faster and more efficient. and what is particularly important to me is that victims of crime do not have to travel in person when they are in other member states, or this is also very important violence and traumatic experiences do not have to be experienced again when you are in a room with the perpetrator, the perpetrator or the accused at that time, as a witness or as a victim. that's on the bright side. but let us not forget that we are also dealing with fundamental rights. it is not only about trust in this system, but also about fundamental rights, the integrity of our legal system and finally the rule of law. we all know from our normal lives that remote meetings are different from meetings in the room, and even more importantly, in court hearings, digital hearings are not the same as on-site exchanges; this should not and should not become the norm. it is also important for us that the confidentiality of communication with lawyers be maintained. we must not go towards russia and other authoritarian states. but i'm very optimistic about that. we've put enough protective measures in there.
in the name of the id faction. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any further action. yes, would it not be great if europe attracted many highly intelligent young people who were seeking a career in research here? but instead of these smart people, we are attracting immigrants from north africa and the islamic countries who, first, are not qualified for young researchers and second, have no intention of working here, but mostly just want to benefit from our social system. these people, mostly young men, for example, come to us via lampedusa. i was there myself a few weeks ago and i was looking at this. i can tell you that the development, especially in the target cities of these men, is really dramatic: closed shops, street raids, gang rape, men who dare to do their duty on the streets. more and more cities are turning into ghettos. so if we want to answer the question of what we can do to make our countries, our cities, our universities attractive to intelligent young researchers, then i would suggest that we first effectively close our borders to illegal immigration because nobody really wants to live or work in a europe that is flooded with poverty, violence and dirt and where most money is used for redistribution and not invested. but then spending millions on meaningless projects is like putting a bandage on a leg amputated. it looks nice, but it's no use. and my dear colleague, when i look at the questions you are asking that you are particularly concerned with gender equality and the women's share, i am afraid that this project is not about young researchers at all, but about adhering to quotas. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of certain products. but i say it again: all the funding will be wasted if we do not close the borders to illegal immigration. and, my colleagues, if you send these signals against illegal immigration, which the dutch sent out in yesterday's election, if you don't take them seriously, then you will be wiped out in next year's election. i'm supposed to be right, because i won't be here anymore. but i'm sorry about the young researchers who fell for our empty promises.
the minutes and texts adopted of the sitting of 23 november are available. are there any comments? as that is not the case the minutes are approved.
the competent authorities of poland have notified me of the election of rafał romanowski to the european parliament replacing zbigniew kuźmiuk with effect from 29 november 2023. the competent authorities of spain have notified me of the election of patricia caro maya to the european parliament replacing ernest urtasun with effect from 30 november 2023. the competent authorities of france have notified me of the election of françois thiollet to the european parliament replacing michèle rivasi with effect from 30 november 2023. i wish to welcome our new colleagues and recall that they take their seats in parliament and on its bodies in full enjoyment of their rights pending the verification of their credentials.
on the proposal of the committee on legal affairs, parliament verifies the credentials of wolfram pirchner with effect from 17 october 2023, of martine kemp with effect from 24 october 2023, and of jozef mihál with effect from 26 october 2023.
matteo gazzini is no longer a member of the id group and sits with the non-attached members as of 7 december 2023.
the epp, the greens/efa and ecr groups have notified me of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees and delegations. these decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and take effect on the date of this announcement.
several committees have decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) of the rules of procedure. the reports, which constitute the mandates for the negotiations, are available on the plenary webpage and their titles will be published in the minutes of the sitting. pursuant to rule 71(2), members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold may request in writing by tomorrow, tuesday 12 december at midnight, that the decisions be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in parliament is made before the deadline, the committees may start the negotiations.
i would also like to inform you that, together with the president of the council, i shall, on wednesday, sign 10 acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with rule 79 of parliament’s rules. the titles of the acts will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
we now come to the order of business. the final draft agenda as adopted by the conference of presidents on 7 december pursuant to rule 157 has been distributed. with the agreement of the political groups, i wish to put to the house the following proposal for changes to the final draft agenda. the order of debates today, monday, will change. the debate on the report by ms peter-hansen on ‘the role of tax policy in times of crisis’ will be taken as the second item, whereas the debate on the report by mr bogovič on ‘small modular reactors’ will be taken as the third item. a short presentation of the report by mr bernhuber on ‘foodstuffs for human consumption: amending certain “breakfast” directives’ will replace the short presentation of the report by ms mazurek on ‘the implementation of the 2018 geo-blocking regulation’ which will go directly to the votes on wednesday. the debate on the report by ms pagazaurtundúa on ‘extending the list of eu crimes to hate speech and hate crimes’ foreseen as the third item on wednesday afternoon will be postponed to the january part-session. deadlines for amendments will be open for the report by mr hajšel on ‘the european hydrogen bank’, which will be voted on thursday. the deadlines are as follows: alternative motions for resolutions – tuesday 12 december at noon; joint motions for resolutions – wednesday 13 december at 10.00; split and separate votes – wednesday 13 december at 16.00. if there are no objections, these changes are approved. we now move to changes requested by the political groups, starting with tuesday. the left group has requested that council and commission statements on the review of the economic governance framework be added as the second item in the afternoon. as a consequence, the sitting would be extended to 23.00. i give the floor to josé gusmão to move the request.
i give the floor to anybody who would like to speak against. that does not seem to be the case so i put the request to the vote by roll call. (parliament rejected the request)also for tuesday, the left group has requested that the statement by the vice-president / high representative on ‘the need to release all hostages, to achieve a humanitarian ceasefire and prospect of the two-state solution’ be wound up with a resolution to be voted on thursday. i give the floor to manon aubry to move the request.
madam president, we really had a very good debate here last october, and this parliament has been very united. we voted a resolution with more than 500 votes out of 540 here. and exactly, we can have a vote every month. every month we are confronted with these horrific crimes that have been taking place there. but for me, it is very clear we do not need to vote resolutions every time. i want action on the ground. so for me, i really support a very strong debate. i really support all the groups of this parliament visiting gaza the last weeks. but i think a new resolution will be ended up with the same as in october.
i put the request of the left group to the vote by roll call. (parliament rejected the request) the s&d, renew, the left and greens/efa groups have requested that a statement by the vice-president / high representative on ‘attempt of coup d’état in guatemala’ be added as the third item in the afternoon. the debate would be wound up with a resolution to be voted on thursday. as a consequence, the sitting would be extended to 23.00. i give the floor to jordi cañas to move the request.
does anyone want to speak against? that does not seem to be the case. i put the request to the vote by roll call. (parliament approved the request)the statement is added. the debate will be wound up with a resolution. the vote will be on thursday. the deadlines are: motions for resolutions – tuesday 12 december at noon; amendments to motions for resolutions, and joint motions for resolutions – wednesday 13 december at noon; amendments to joint motions for resolutions – wednesday 13 december at 13.00; split and separate votes – wednesday 13 december at 19.00. also for tuesday, the greens group has requested that the statement by the vice-president / high representative on ‘the environmental consequences of the russian aggression against ukraine and the need for accountability’ be wound up with a resolution to be voted at the january part-session. i give the floor to heidi hautala to move the request.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, indeed, russia’s war of aggression has also caused severe long term and often irreversible damage to ukraine’s natural environment. and in the midst of this brutal war, ukraine has shown outstanding leadership by responding to russia’s blatant violations of international law with a commitment to strengthen accountability for serious environmental crimes. it is crucial that the european parliament will lend its support to ukraine also in these efforts, and to add its voice to calls by the council of europe and others for a better recognition of environmental crimes in armed conflicts. i can assure you that this would not only benefit ukraine, but also it will be beneficial with a view to all future conflicts.
i give the floor to anybody who would want to speak against. no? i put the request to the vote by roll call. (parliament rejected the request)also for tuesday, the ecr group has requested that a statement by the high representative on ‘unilateral actions by venezuela’s maduro regime against guyana’ be added as the fifth item in the afternoon after the debate on ‘the environmental consequences of the russian aggression against ukraine and the need for accountability’. the debate would be wound up with a resolution, to be voted on thursday. as a consequence, the sitting would be extended to 23.00. i give the floor to anna fotyga to move the request.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, colleagues, venezuela has been in the european parliament’s agenda for a long time due to maduro regime mostly internal policies, violation of human rights, impoverishing society and pushing people of his country out for long-standing migration. now we are concerned by statements by maduro himself of his aggressive, unilateral actions against guyana. i kindly ask colleagues to focus on this topic during debate, as well as draw up a resolution to be adopted by the parliament.
i have received an alternative proposal from the epp group to add a statement with this title: ‘unilateral actions by venezuela’s maduro regime against guyana and the order of the arrest of political opponents’, with a resolution to be voted in january. i have received another alternative proposal from the renew and s&d groups to add a statement by the high representative on ‘the situation in venezuela’, without a resolution, to be added as the fourth item in the afternoon. so now i ask you, ms fotyga, do you agree with any of the alternative proposals, either the epp one or the renew and s&d one?
madam president, i agree with the epp proposal because it focuses on a particular aspect of the case.
so if you agree with the epp alternative proposal we will put it to the vote by roll call. (parliament rejected the ppe group’s request)so i ask whether the renew and s&d groups want to keep their alternative proposal? yes, so we vote on that alternative proposal. to repeat, this would be a statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the ‘situation in venezuela’ without resolutions added as a full point. by roll call vote. (parliament approved the renew and s&d groups’ request)the statement is therefore added. we now move to wednesday. the left group has requested that council and commission statements on ‘one year after morocco- and qatargate – stocktaking of measures to strengthen transparency and accountability in the european institutions’ be added as the second item in the afternoon. i give the floor to miguel urbán crespo to move the request on behalf of the left group.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, it is just one year since one of the biggest scandals that has splashed the european institutions came to light, which although it began under the name of qatargate, we have subsequently learned from the press reports that it would be fair to call it moroccogate: morocco allegedly organized a network of meps to the european parliament to influence the decisions of this parliament decisions to prevent demonstrations of cases of human rights violations in morocco, demonstrations against the illegal occupation of the sahara or any other issue that would disturb the regime of mohamed vi, a network which would allegedly later use qatar to clean up its football world. these weeks we've been hearing new cases and new revelations in the press. we believe that it is so important that we have a debate of this kind in this parliament a year later. not having it would be sending a wrong message to the citizens.
i have received an alternative proposal from the id group which i give the floor to jean-paul garraud to present for a council and commission statements on “integrity of the eu institutions”, without resolution.
mr urbán crespo, do you agree with the alternative proposal, or do you want to keep your own? i’m not surprised – i see you want to keep your own. (parliament approved the left group’s request)so we will have council and commission statements to be added as the second item in the afternoon. for thursday, the ecr group has requested that council and commission statements on ‘the impact of the eu-ukraine agreement on the carriage of freight by road, on the balance of the eu transport services market and the situation of hauliers from the member states’ be added as the second item in the morning. i give the floor to kosma złotowski to move the request on behalf of the ecr.
on behalf of the ecr group. your honor, the chairman! ukraine was brutally attacked by russia. the european union has opened up its transport market to it. before the war, ukrainian companies carried out 67,000 transport operations in the european union, up from 700,000 last year. the market is open without any conditions. the ukrainian carriers do not fulfil the conditions which european carriers must fulfil. someone loses, someone wins. european entrepreneurs, especially those from eastern europe, are convinced that they are the ones who are losing the most. we therefore ask for a debate. what is the european commission's opinion? we would like to know. we also want to know if the european commission is also going to extend this agreement without any conditions.
i have received an alternative proposal from the renew group which is for council and commission statements on “ensuring proper functioning of eu-ukraine solidarity lanes”. i give the floor to mr petras auštrevičius to present the alternative proposal.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, since 6 november, truck drivers in poland have blocked access roads to four border crossings, creating lines that stretch for more than 30km. around 3300 ukrainian trucks are stuck in freezing temperatures. it greatly affected cargo flow from both border sides. the crisis has expanded, with slovakian hauliers, aided by hungarian ones, joining the protest to obstruct another main border crossing. according to some assessments, the blockade is expected to lead up to a 1 % drop in ukraine’s gdp for 2023. at the time of this high crisis, we lacked clear and timely action from the european commission. that’s why we call for the commission and council statements on ensuring proper functioning of the eu and ukraine solidarity lanes.
mr złotowski, do you agree with the alternative proposal? i see that you don’t. (parliament rejected the ecr group’s request)so therefore, mr auštrevičius, do you want to keep your proposal? i see that you do. (parliament approved the renew group’s request) (the order of business was thus established) * * *
i would like to raise a procedural question to your attention, madam president, concerning the infringement of article 10 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament. this is a member of the european parliament's conduct contrary to the rules of procedure. please take a stand.
is this something that happened now?
..... this happened during the last session here in the european parliament's chamber, started in the european parliament's chamber and continued in the commission.
i will look at rule 10 in relation to that particular incident. thank you mr dzhambazki. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
the next item is the debate on the report by domènec ruiz devesa and sven simon, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the european elections 2024 (2023/2016(ini)) (a9-0332/2023).
the report is not yet available. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. after the 2019 european elections, many people were disappointed. the parties were running with top candidates, and then something happened that you don't have to call democratically responsible: the socialists did not recognize the top candidate of the european people's party, although he had won the election. the liberals were not available for days because they were pursuing other plans in the council. we can be happy that the president-in-office of the commission, who was finally elected, has proved to be a lucky break for the european union. it has been very involved in the pandemic and has taken care of the supply of vaccines, even though the european union has no real responsibility for this. it has held us europeans together in russia's terrible war of aggression against ukraine and done what it could. the european union has a very special role to play in the development of the european union. we're well represented with her, on a par with the world. we must, however, organize the process better after the next european elections. and that is what this report is all about. because in a democracy, voting must count. the outcome of the european elections on 9 june must therefore have an impact on the election of the commission presidency. that's the purpose of top candidates, to show their faces, to be selective and selective. unfortunately, the european elections have no influence on the composition of the european commission. i think that is a structural error in the lisbon treaty. the more important it is that we follow the process described in this report. the report is, first of all, a negotiating mandate for agreement with the council. secondly, we expect the european parties to go to the polls with a top candidate or a top candidate and to nominate them. the negotiating mandate must be given to the candidate or candidate who, after the election as described, can join the largest group in parliament in an attempt to form a majority. if this fails, he will move to the second largest faction. we are therefore making sure that the principles of parliamentary democracy are also being applied in europe. ladies and gentlemen, we are facing great challenges which no single european state can overcome. the europeans must be able to defend themselves. it's about security inside and out. people expect us to stop mass illegal migration, finally end dying in the mediterranean, and no longer leave it to the tractor bands who come to europe. they expect europe to become competitive again and we will renew the promise of prosperity. and finally, we need european leadership and global standards in shaping digital transformation. we must develop the green deal rationally. we have to be prepared to do this in a way that is consistent with the european parliament's proposals. it is also intended to make the european union institutionally capable of action. as long as we are not making the responsibilities of changing the treaties more visible at european level, we need these negotiations among the democrats. the european parliament has to be able to vote. i therefore ask your consent to this report.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. in a few months we will all be campaigning, spending a lot of time on the podiums, on the campaign tracks and talking to the citizens. i can tell you that we will probably hear a question very often, especially from my colleagues from the conservatives: why is ursula von der leyen, the woman who is running for the most powerful position in the european union, not on the ballot? and i, and many of you, probably have to say, we don't know that, it's a little unimaginable. so four years ago the colleague already pointed out that mrs leyen was bewitched by the heads of government and was then elected by very few votes from pis and fidesz. you can't take a look at that again. it is likely that ms von der leyen herself did not know before the election that she would be president of the commission because frans timmermans and manfred weber had gone to court with viktor orbán too hard. but this time it would be a deliberate decision against democracy and this is in a party where all the elected federal chancellors and chancelloresses from the cdu have always stood. ursula von der leyen's father also, of course, always won his constituency 1978, 1982, 1986 , three times before becoming prime minister in lower saxony. the european union is undemocratic, brussels is far from it, none of us are elected. and it's precisely these populists ursula von der leyen would naturally put water on the mills if she wasn't on the ballot. member states prevent european lists, but of course the leyen in the netherlands can run all top candidates should run. of course, it is part of the basic principle of democracy that candidates imagine themselves declaring their electoral programme and that we then go to coalition negotiations to decide who is running the commission. that would be a strong sign for democracy if you really run for office.
in the name of the left faction. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. the report of the european parliament is not a revolution. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the use of the electricity sector in the community. more than 60 years later, we seem to be on the right track in the harmonization of european voting law. we must be able to act, yes, and that includes being able to overcome the challenges we face as a continent. we must also count on the confidence and active involvement of citizens. the organisation of european elections is of symbolic importance for this and the strengthening of european political parties is also overdue. but above all, the member states must finally have the courage to take the next step towards genuinely european elections. an additional european constituency and a definitive list of top candidates would have the potential to implement the community character of this election, give a completely new meaning to voting and strengthen democracy. it is only last year that we adopted as parliament a new proposal for a uniform electoral system. the council is again the one who is dragging the reform and unfortunately is not present in this debate today. we are reiterating our vision with this report. i think it would be a mistake to wait for years to harmonize the european elections. i therefore support this report and congratulate the rapporteurs on their work and wish us all the courage and foresight to act accordingly after the european elections in june.
the european union is intensifying its reactionary strategy to more effectively arm its imperialist plans against international competition with the united states and china, and to accelerate its anti-people policy in favour of monopolies. it is also calling for reactive adjustments to the electoral law in the run-up to the european elections, to deepen the european union and to strengthen the role of the commission, the european parliament and the european political parties. at the same time, it proposes to reform the treaties even by abolishing unanimity in the council, opening dangerous roads. the government of the new republic in greece is promoting the alteration of the electoral body by voting and by those who have no economic or social ties to the country, as well as by the postal vote which exposes workers to blackmail, thus facilitating the error. the european union and governments are becoming increasingly reactionary and dangerous to the people. it is therefore necessary to strengthen the workers' popular struggles against the anti-people's policies of the european union and the bourgeois governments with a much stronger greek communist party in the european elections.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. europe must become more democratic. your voice, dear citizens, must count more. especially with the institution that proposes all the laws: the eu commission. i am firmly convinced that in order to give more weight to the will to vote in the european commission, we need to expand and consolidate the principle of the top candidate. the epp developed the blueprint for this over a decade ago. each party contesting the european elections will nominate a top candidate who will present himself across europe with a face and program. this is the way a genuine european election campaign can be launched and a genuine european public can be created. we, the german christian democrats, are thinking of the principle as a whole and we also support the creation of a european-wide constituency for the top candidates so that they can be directly elected by a second vote anywhere in europe. but the council, which is not even here today, continues to deafen itself and cling to power. in this legislature, there has been no change in the law in favour of more democracy in the election of the eu commission's top leader. i therefore make this urgent appeal to you: end the back-chamber deals under 27 in the election of the commission president. let there be more democracy, respect the voice of the citizens! have the 720 directly elected meps make a staff proposal for the eu commission's head on 9 june 2024. we are paying the political price for the proposals made by the commission which will shape you as a co-legislator. the european commission is a political authority and this political responsibility must be reflected much more strongly in its leadership. we need a binding council commitment to more democracy, more transparency and more political will, now before the elections.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. i think we have heard many good words and the rapporteurs have also put forward a good plan which, if we were to be honest, we would not have used if the electoral reform had been passed. but unfortunately, the council is once again shining through absence. i would like to point out, however, that the two rapporteurs in particular have two things to say: the spika system, the top candidate system, is a good one. but i think that these top candidates should not only be open to debate, but also give the people the choice. if you dare not stand for the citizens in lower saxony on the ballot, i consider that a relatively weak one, dear friends of the cdu. but i also think, domènec, sven: despite your presentation, you have to be honest. the european parliament would have had the opportunity to reject the council's proposal, and i expect that next time. but to stand here and say, it is bad, that we are now receiving a proposal, while you both and the whole group have agreed to this proposal, i think it is a little too short. i wish to have a representation in this european parliament which is actually a representation of the people of the european union, and i wish to have the courage to represent them fully. this means that we must say no to the council if there is a proposal which does not conform to the systems and ideas we had before. i think that means, but also, for example, that we can again use article 17 of the treaty. because it actually says that we have a maximum of 18 commissioners. i think that as a parliament, as a representative of the people of europe, you can also represent interests that are not in the interests of the member states.
madam president, five years ago, many more european citizens than the time before went out to vote in the european parliament elections. that is something that we wanted to see. it is something that we worked for, and finally the results showed that they voted for this parliament, but also for the direction that they wanted the european commission to take in these five years. unfortunately, they all ended up baffled. they saw that the person that they thought could be the president of the european commission for the next five years ended up being someone who was not even listed in any of the different political parties that presented themselves in this election. then no wonder that last week we got a poll that states that europeans think that european democracy is becoming weaker and is not functioning. we need to change this. we need to increase the participation of citizens. we need to strengthen our democracy. we need to make sure that if we go in front of citizens with a number of names, then one of those names ends up leading the european commission. because ultimately their vote is not simply a symbol, but it is a move of faith to see the direction that they want the european union to move forward in the future.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. the european union has lost considerable confidence in the last european elections in 2019. and the reason we lost confidence is mr weber. mr weber is the target of this, because the factions of the cdu and csu and their political family have promised the people of europe a top candidate system, which they have not kept. there are many reasons why you want to get out of this now. at the end of the day, in germany, they said and there is the greatest damage : choose the union and you get mr weber. that promise was broken. in the back rooms, mrs von der leyen appeared on the table, who was no longer wanted in germany and sent to brussels. this is an incredible incident, an incredible loss of confidence that has been brought to the european union. i therefore say that what we need is not a discussion of transnational lists that the union wants here, but what we need here is actually a return to confidence and a reduction in the commission, and also and i am convinced that the truth and clarity in the election are there. and that is what the union took away from us in the last european elections.
madam president, both for this constitutional report on the 2024 elections and for the contributions of the rapporteur domènec ruiz devesa, because it is, firstly, about making the elections more european, secondly, about making this parliament more democratic and, thirdly, about making the political process leading to the election of the commission more parliamentary. how will the election be more european? if the political parties running for the european elections have the european logo embedded and commit to participate in a european-wide candidate formation process. what we've called the list head system. this, coupled with increased participation by increasing the possibility for third-country residents and persons with disabilities to vote, will further strengthen the democratic legitimacy of this european parliament, which came out stronger in the 2019 elections after declining for 40 years since its first direct election in 1979. but above all, the commitment to making the process more parliamentary is that this parliament is decisive in the candidacy for the presidency of the commission so that the first force represented in this parliament can submit a candidacy and then political families can submit a candidacy to the council to make the european parliament the commission's presidency.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, it is truly astonishing to me to meet other meps who know that they will be in the next parliament because of how high they are on their party lists. they know they’re going to be in the next mandate, and it should be obvious to all of us that this disincentivises those candidates from investing time and energy into the process. those of us who will seek direct elections, without lists, will work intensely to engage with voters, will debate the issues and raise the profile of these elections. lists put candidates at a remove from the people. lists empower party officials and they enable processes that are not transparent. it should come as no surprise that ireland is one of the member states that is most positive towards eu membership, so i respect the right of member states to design their own electoral systems. i very much welcome this report and the work of the rapporteurs, but i think that we have an awful lot to learn from each other, from the way that we elect our meps.
member of the commission. – madam president, indeed, next year will be a crucial electoral year all over the world, and for the european union, the vote will be against a background of development of huge importance in our union’s history. i think that europeans will have a chance to make their voice heard, not only as usual on national agendas, but perhaps for the first time on fundamental european questions: our support to ukraine, our climate ambition, the direction of travel towards completing our union, democracy and the rule of law, the economic competitiveness of the eu. so a big challenge for us. i think we must also focus on the common mission that unites all of us, and that is to ensure a free and fair electoral competition in which the voice of europe can truly be heard. elections are the cornerstone of democracy and the package we will adopt tomorrow in the college, i hope, will strengthen our european democracy.
the report is not yet available. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. five points to conclude this debate: firstly, it has shown once again that this parliament is simply sick of too few colleagues sitting here in plenary. we need a debate. the debate culture needs to improve. that's something we'll have to change next time. we need more presence. secondly, it has become clear that most of my colleagues view the structural errors in the lisbon treaty as well. we have established a political union, well, rightly so, we have a political commission, but it must be electable and selectable in a democracy. it is necessary to conclude that member states are sending their commissioners and that the election has no impact on the composition of the commission. thirdly, the accusation that mrs von der leyen does not stand for office, even though she may stand for president of the commission again. it would be more fraudulent for the electorate to run for parliament and then have to give up the seat immediately because it is actually the commission president, if she wants to run. fourthly, the top of the debate was the accusation by mr eroglu, the colleague of the free voters and the renew group, who said that mr weber was responsible for the failure of the top candidate principle last time. this is a very grotesque nonsense, because it was his faction, the renew faction, which did not report, which cheated the council, so that the principle of the best candidate is destroyed at this point. so that was really a political unfreeze. and lastly, we need a european public. what the right-wing has said, mr hoogeveen, that we should once again nationalise this, is also nonsense, because it is decided at european level. we need a european debate, a european public. and democracy in europe must become electable and electable, just like everywhere else in the world, and at european level.
in writing. the resolution stresses the importance of participation in elections for all citizens of the european union and the need for more effective election organisation. at the same time, the report stresses the need for union-wide constituencies, which i do not support. the treaties of the european union provide for the representation of the member states in the european parliament on the basis of the principle of regressive proportionality. it may be agreed by the treaties that the large member states have relatively less representation in parliament than their population and the small member states have relatively more. i would like to say that the commission is not going to be able to do this. i was left impartial in the vote.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for the insightful report. of course, taxation is a key political lever to build a more resilient europe, which to me means a fairer, more competitive and greener europe. so, first, fair taxation is the cornerstone of a more resilient europe, and has been central in our approach to tax policy. with our legislative proposal, in our economic surveillance, and through our international engagement in the global agreements, we are strengthening our framework against aggressive tax planning, tax abuse and tax fraud. also, simplifying the tax system is a priority: reducing the administrative burden, making it easier for citizens and firms to comply with their obligations, removing tax obstacles in the single market. this is how on the tax side we can help free up resources for investment, for job creation, and maintaining europe’s competitive edge. this is the goal of the package of proposals we presented in september for larger and smaller firms alike: befit, head office taxation, and the transfer pricing directive. we are encouraged to see that the european parliament is working on this proposal at full speed. as agreed jointly by the commission, parliament and council, befit is also a candidate for the next generation of own resources. on this point, let me add that the commission has fully demonstrated its commitment to fostering new revenue for the eu budget, as per the interinstitutional agreement with the european parliament and the council of 16 december 2020. we have presented two batches of new own resources, including ets, cbam and the implementation of pillar one of the global deal on taxation. further reflections are ongoing around the taxation of the financial sector. indeed, strengthening our framework of own resources is essential to help repay the borrowing under nextgenerationeu, and to finance european public goods and investments in european projects, in particular around the green and digital transition. we know how pressing the need to phase out fossil fuel is. we pledged to reach carbon neutrality, and we know we won’t get there without massive investments. yet our tax signals are sometimes in the opposite direction. we have a proposal on the table to address this: the revision of the energy taxation directive, which has been languishing for too long, almost three years now. the temporary solidarity contribution, responding to a specific crisis situation, has already raised an estimated eur 17 billion of additional proceeds for member states to support households and companies affected by soaring energy prices. but we need to ensure structural solutions to generate proceeds for member states. the time has come to align the taxation of energy products with our climate policies, by removing outdated exemptions and reduced rates that encourage the use of fossil fuels, and by promoting clean technologies instead. with cop28 coming to an end tomorrow, it is time to commit to move forward with the review of the energy taxation directive. the own-initiative report before us today, as well as the other report to the plenary, touch on many of these aspects. so let me thank again the rapporteur for her work and, more broadly, the european parliament, for being a staunch ally of the commission for ambitious taxation policies throughout this mandate. over these past four years, we have tabled several initiatives that have garnered the parliament’s support. despite the best efforts of succeeding presidencies, some of these initiatives are still stuck in the council. the most egregious example, in my view, is ‘unshell’. as the european elections draw nearer, how can we explain to our citizens that we had a chance to end the abuse of shell companies and did not seize it? so let me be clear. the commission will not stop pushing for an ambitious tax agenda, one that delivers better outcomes for our citizens and businesses, and let us continue to work together.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of certain products. yes, inflation, high energy prices, supply chain difficulties are putting pressure on us all, putting pressure on our companies above all else. and targeted tax policy measures are or should be leverage to secure liquidity, jobs and investment. the commission therefore considers that the modernisation and simplification of corporate taxes are essential for the future location of the business. we all want fairer taxes at all levels. and of course we must also look at the tax administration of companies. it needs to be reduced, it needs to be made more digital, so that it can be managed in times of scarce resources. i know from my home country germany many examples of how hardly anyone in germany can fill out a tax return himself because everything is too complicated and in times of crisis it is all the more difficult. this is why, unfortunately, some smes have not managed to survive the crisis without reserves in difficult times. we need to simplify tax law, we need to make tax law fairer, but we must also go in this direction in order to meet people a little further, to simplify taxes accordingly and not to build more bureaucracy. it's hard, i know that. but it's worth the gentleman's sweat that we're guided by. the way you do not do this is ultimately seen in the current german government. it is complicated, there is too much ideology going on, and we are not helping anyone with this when we are driving businesses outside europe, when the bureaucracy and taxation are too high.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. i am not going to say anything. how can it be that our local bookstore pays a higher tax rate than amazon? why do we allow super-rich multimillionaires in most european countries to have to deduct a significantly smaller share of their high wealth than normal earners from their income? the richer the tax rate, the lower. this is absurd and unfair. since the covid pandemic, wealth inequality, massive poverty and excessive wealth have been increasing at the same time. the biggest corporations make big profits, and a majority of people suffer from high prices. the energy bill, rent, or food has become priceless for many. no wonder people are frustrated and turning away from our democracy. the key to a fairer society lies in tax policy. small incomes are more tax-deductible, super-rich, excessive profits and financial speculation must finally be fairly taxed. it's outrageous that a majority here in the house of commons of conservatives, liberals and right-wingers protects the interests of the super-rich and big corporations. a policy that protects the super-rich is damaging our society. instead of redistributing the costs of the crisis, they are demanding cuts to the poorest and to infrastructure. in germany they want to impose cuts to citizens' money, in italy they want to eliminate hundreds of thousands of social benefits and prevent a minimum wage, and in the european parliament they are trying to impose investment-hostile debt rules, which mainly affect people with low incomes. we must not allow this disintegration to succeed. we are fighting for a europe for all, not for a few.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. if you want to give a very good example of what the european parliament's committee on industry, energy and research is actually doing, you have a very good example in this initiative, which we have made a significant contribution to as the ep and for which our colleague, franc bogovič, is responsible. we operate within a clearly defined framework in eu energy policy. we want to significantly reduce co2 emissions in the energy sector, and that is why we are pushing for the expansion of renewable energy. but of course, for everyone who really takes climate protection seriously, all forms of low-carbon energy production are the focus here. and this includes nuclear energy, which a large majority of member states rely on as a basic supplier, as a necessary complement to the fluctuating renewables. in this respect, it makes perfect sense that we as the eu should be working together on the latest developments in nuclear technology. and that includes the small modular reactors. an eu strategy will ensure that nuclear remains a natural part of the eu energy mix, that further research and investment are also made. and most importantly, we all get a clear picture of the efficiency, the efficiency, the cost, but also the risks of waste disposal and the raw materials used in this new nuclear technology. for us as evps, energy decisions are at the top of the agenda in terms of how the technology contributes to a safe, affordable and low-carbon energy supply. i am very curious about the contribution that small modular reactors can make to this. with an eu strategy that mr bogovic and we as the industrial committee are calling for today, we hope that the european public and national decision-makers will soon know. in this respect, please accept the report widely.
- madam president, please. the us business magazine forbes has named ursula von der leyen the most powerful woman in the world and ecb president lagarde the second most powerful woman in the world. the criteria: the extent of power over human and financial capital and global political influence. so power is measured, not performance. that's the way it's measured. under the treaties, von leyen is the head of the administration and the ecb is the custodian of price stability. however, since 2019, both have actually expanded the commission to the european government and the ecb to their money printing. abuse of power by breach of contract is also power, and fullness of power is likewise the use of one's own power not for the benefit of the citizens but to their detriment. europe is now economically weaker, less european and, according to the latest pisa study, more stupid than ever. the eu has the most powerful women in the world, but they cost us everything.
the rapporteur. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of certain products. in our connected world, global challenges transcend national boundaries and call for joint action. we are witnessing major geopolitical changes, like russia's brutal war of aggression against ukraine or china's increasingly aggressive geopolitical claim to power. the export restrictions on gallium, germanium and graphite speak a clear language here. it is therefore imperative that we act together in this time to advance our strategic sovereignty, quickly and effectively. only four months between the commission's draft regulation on critical raw materials and the european parliament's compromise. only four months to agree on the trilogy, one month after that, we've voted here and in record time in the legislature. the european community is a country which has a very high level of autonomy and a very high level of autonomy. and above all: a good, practical law that lays the foundation for the secure supply of raw materials to europe and thus for digital and green transformation, for our prosperity and sustainable economies. a commodity law that encourages industry instead of burdening it with investment incentives, simple, fast authorisation procedures and planning certainty for companies and investors instead of more bureaucracy and reporting obligations. many of our core points as a parliament are included. let me introduce four: a new innovative concept with a recycling benchmark based on the raw materials already in waste today. this, ladies and gentlemen, is a more realistic approach. instead of uncertain projections for consumption in 2030, we're focusing on the amount of strategic raw materials in waste and how much we can recover from it. we are sending a clear signal to the recycling industry that we want to recycle strategic raw materials in europe. secondly, the ambitious and planned approval procedures. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. but time is money. in the future, the deadlines for strategic projects in the eu will be significantly shortened. 27 months for mining projects, 15 months for processing and recycling projects. with these ambitious deadlines, we are finally achieving planning certainty for companies in europe. thirdly, clear and central contacts. the far too often played competence ping pong of the authorities is now a thing of the past. an authority shall be responsible for coordinating the approval processes. and even better for entrepreneurs: they have a central contact at all times during the approval process, who is at their disposal as their responsible person. fourthly, a boost to innovation along the value chain. substitution projects can also become strategic projects a new idea of this parliament. this is not only an important step towards european technological leadership, to scale up innovation, but also to directly reduce the environmental impact of mining and our dependencies. because it's clear that every gram of raw material we can replace, we don't have to mine or import. with this new position, ladies and gentlemen, we are becoming an attractive partner worldwide at the same time. we are also working with partners in third countries to reduce geopolitical and economic risks and create new opportunities for our partners and ourselves, from mining to processing, recycling to substitution. in short: planning security for businesses, real incentives for private investment in the eu and with reliable partners in third countries ensures jobs and prosperity, reduces unilateral dependencies, shields us from the storms of geopolitics, whether from the east or the west. i would like to thank the european council and the spanish presidency, the european commission, in particular commissioner breton and director-general jorna, and all the colleagues involved here in the european parliament, including their teams, for the productive and forward-looking negotiations and constructive cooperation over the past few months. i would like to thank the staff of the administration of our european parliament for ensuring that consultations are accelerated. and now i look forward to a lively debate.
member of the commission. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, for the work that parliament has done over the last nine months on the proposal for a regulation on critical raw materials. when we made this proposal last march we knew that there was a common commitment to action on critical raw materials, to reduce our dependence and to make our supply safer and more sustainable. it is remarkable that, collectively, we have been able to move beyond our initial differences in assessment to translate this commitment into concrete measures along the value chain in record time by promoting the exploitation, refining and recycling of critical raw materials here in europe, where this was an absolutely essential point, while continuing to promote the major role that trade and, of course, international partnerships must play. in the end, the compromise reached will improve our security of supply while ensuring that environmental and social standards are respected, and even i would like to say that they will be strengthened. it is a european response to the threats and pressures that certain third countries want to exert on us regarding access to critical raw materials, and it clearly demonstrates our joint commitment to strengthening our industrial production capacities in europe, to have a europe-power, the master of its destiny. i would like to emphasize here some of the essential contributions of parliament to this agreement, which has always drawn attention to the importance of minimising the administrative burden and streamlining procedures, while acknowledging that certain reporting obligations are obviously inevitable for the measures to be effective. i would also like to underline parliament's strong support for acceleration and rationalization, which has allowed for ambitious authorisation periods for strategic projects to be maintained. secondly, parliament's amendments have led to the introduction of a realistic objective of demand moderation (providing more details on the categories of environmental risks) and have made multilateral governance a requirement for all certification systems. these amendments and many others reinforce the regulation's sustainability ambition without challenging our model of economic growth. thirdly, in the field of raw materials diplomacy, parliament stressed that strategic partnerships should bring local added value and thus support economic and social development, particularly in developing countries. these elements have been taken up and will serve as the basis for the implementation of current strategic partnerships and the conclusion of future strategic partnerships. thanks to your work and that of the swedish and spanish presidencies of the council, the critical raw materials regulation will enter into force at the beginning of next year. this is a crucial step in ensuring that europe is quickly behind in the race to access raw materials. this has allowed the commission to organise the first meetings with industry in the value chain as early as last week, from whom we can draw inspiration to launch the process of selecting strategic projects. but beyond this selection, the strategic projects must become a reality, and i count on parliament to help us continue this process and ensure that the commitments made by the member states to support this european programme are actually implemented. finally, we will soon set up the committee on critical raw materials, our governance forum within the committee of the member states. within it, member states will be able to coordinate their stocks, exchange best practices for public acceptance and discuss the implementation of national exploration programmes and circularity. parliament will of course have a monitoring role as an observer. he will be able to review the activities carried out within the committee and recall his views during the implementation. i know that the european parliament is determined to move forward in the field of critical raw materials and that it has shaped the text in a significant way. i am therefore confident that you will support this new regulation.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. – mr president, dear colleagues, commissioner, let me thank colleagues across this house for their cooperation and speedy conclusion of negotiations of this file, which reflects the urgent need to implement its provisions. in today’s world geopolitical context, it is essential for the eu not to be dependent on few suppliers, especially those which pose a security threat to the union, like the totalitarian china. i believe that coordination and cooperation with our allies and strategic partners are key to successful implementation of this act. this is why i initiated a joint declaration of legislators from around the world to work together in ensuring secure, ethical and sustainable access to critical raw materials, which will be published later today. in this context, i also encourage the commission to conclude more such partnerships and to add a critical raw materials component to existing and future agreements with third countries.
the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on regional development. mr president, mr commissioner, mr president, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. we also welcomed the support of the basic report and added our opinion in the committee on regional development, in which we support the basic objectives of increasing the extraction of these raw materials in europe, as well as the processing, recycling, collection of these raw materials and strategic diversification across countries. the speed of placement in the premises, the speed of these administrative procedures, and cooperation with local and regional communities are of particular importance. without timely access to local communities, all these objectives will also be difficult to achieve. we therefore want all those who want to place such facilities in the premises to speak out in local communities, to provide additional infrastructure and new jobs in this environment, as this will be the best guarantee of future success for strategic projects. i would like to ask you, mr commissioner, to carry out as many strategic projects as possible and to ensure strategic sovereignty in the field of critical materials in europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. we have the eu's raw materials law. we have managed to bring raw material supply from the expertise of the eu into the centre of our industrial strategy, and thus send clear signals to the global economy that we as the eu will be active in the future, including by increasing our domestic potential, to address the growing demand for raw materials, particularly for future technologies made in europe. that we are committed to building new, stable relationships with trusted partners and to creating win-win situations; that we call for a genuine social dialogue with all stakeholders, transparency and understandable sustainability criteria in raw materials projects; i think that we are not talking about a stupid plus and plus, but we are talking about where we can find all the efficiency gains and systematically use waste and recycle and replace it. we are sending a clear signal to investors, companies and workers. for strategic projects, the authorisation procedures are drastically shortened and made predictable. the risks that are manageable also make them more interesting to banks. this gives companies more options for safe and clean sources of raw materials. they will have to manage raw material risk internally, but without new bureaucracy. we are making industrial workers in mining, processing and recycling part of the green deal and creating new job opportunities. the eu's raw materials law is setting the stage for further digitisation, more efficiency and climate protection. this new framework is to give you, dear citizens, more security. i would like to work for you to implement this law.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. the commission has already taken a number of steps. the green deal needs critical raw materials, and europe has supplied at the speed of sound, for diversified supply chains and security of supply, for industry and small businesses in europe. lithium and rare earths are used for green technologies in wind turbines, solar panels, electric cars and computer chips. with the eu's critical raw materials act, we have now set a green industrial policy milestone for more mining in europe in record time in 2023. circular economy and recycling are now the focus of the raw materials law, while we are working to reduce the need for critical raw materials and replace them. the raw materials law now gives green technology made in europe the opportunity to be produced more strategically autonomous and reliable without having to source raw materials from geopolitically questionable countries such as russia and china. we are building a european raw materials sector, turning waste into a resource and strengthening global partnerships and thus green, competitive industries without disappearing into the bureaucratic shadow. the recycling benchmark is now raised to 25% of the eu's annual consumption of strategic raw materials under the raw materials act. a growing amount of strategic raw materials will be recycled in eu waste streams. this is of course a good dynamic for the recycling industry. this is also very important for us, greens. the civil society must be involved in mining in europe as best as possible. the explicit mention of free consent after prior enlightenment for indigenous peoples has been brushed off by the council's refusal. and yet: the final text refers to the oecd guidelines, which include the free consent after prior disclosure, and that is important and right. the final text also contains a consideration of deep sea mining, and this is also important to us. mining in eu territories must remain taboo. the protection measures provided for in the european parliament mandate have not been maintained, and this is clearly painful for us greens. the commission has therefore decided to adopt a new directive on the protection of the environment. clearly, green change requires critical raw materials to achieve our climate targets, and therefore we need demand-driven mining in europe on the highest possible ecological and social criteria. - let's go! - what?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i think it would have been unnecessary to have had a visionary background in the past to predict that we would be in a mess today when it comes to supplying critical raw materials and materials. and instead, we're back today, just looking at the symptoms, like we did in the past. the symptoms, that is what we are seeing, but the real causes are somewhere else, in ideologically overloaded trade agreements, as we have had in the past. that is why we should be so honest with our managers and employees, workers and workers and all those who work in industry and say: here in this house, ideology still prevails over industry.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. we are now passing a law that is really good for the european union, because we are making ourselves independent or more independent of the import of critical raw materials. i am convinced that this law is on the right track and i would like to thank all the rapporteurs, in particular nicola beer, for this excellent work, because we have proved in a short time that politics and, above all, the european parliament are capable of action. we will always be dependent on imports of critical raw materials as a european union. i therefore think it is good that not only is bureaucracy being reduced here, but also that the extraction of raw materials in the european union is made possible, but that the sign for recycling is also clearly set and that the value chain is also better managed. because we need to become more sovereign, we need to become more independent from third countries, and that also means we need the raw materials for our industry. because we want to stay an industrial continent and not live in some cuckoo's nest. that is the firm conviction of our political family. that's why this law is right.
rapporteur. – cher monsieur commissaire, cher thierry, mr president, dear colleagues, thank you very much for all your contributions. your participation in this debate is yet another example of our shared ambition on this very important topic. i say it very clearly: those who really take the green and the digital transition seriously have to vote ‘yes’ today on the critical raw materials act. important: today’s debate and vote are not the end of the process; they are only the beginning – the beginning of europe’s path towards a secure and sustainable supply of critical raw materials. the european union must now translate the ambition into concrete actions – actions in the member states and by the commission – so that quick permits become reality and private investments in raw materials projects will be facilitated; actions that make europe a leader in the development of substitute materials, and the implementation of innovative processes; and actions that deliver on our geopolitical ambitions to be a strategical sovereign union. we need a critical raw material agreement with australia. australia is a like-minded partner and ally for trade based on values, rules and fair competition. let us seize the opportunity for free trade between partners and close cooperation on the raw materials sector, to strengthen the role of value-based cooperation in today’s geopolitically stormy landscape. we need to approach our partnerships with countries of the so-called global south by conveying clear messages. we want partnerships on equal footing. we want local value creation. we want mutual benefits for all partners involved. we want to do business with you. let’s use the momentum we have created for more raw material projects, more partnerships, and more and more sovereign europe. this law is only the beginning. let us act now.
mr president, i want to speak to you. the eu is a beacon of light, a beacon of light for all those who seek democracy, and especially those who are threatened by the shadows of autocracy. because in the conflict between autocracy and democracy, we as the eu must unmistakably stand on the side of democracies like taiwan. the commission has also proposed that the commission should adopt a decision on the basis of the information provided by the commission. i think it's high time we finally found the political courage to start talks on a free trade and investment agreement with taiwan. i must be honest: i think the commission's backsliding on this issue is becoming increasingly irresponsible. it is too late to seek to conclude a cooperation agreement with taiwan and china, which, as we all know, is rightly frozen. and first of all, the commission should work with our taiwanese partners to develop a framework programme to promote trade and investment conditions in order to facilitate trade, reduce bureaucratic barriers and simplify the recognition of agreements, licences and standards and to increase this potential. because taiwan's involvement in international organizations, international cooperation will also be crucial for the future of democracy in the region essential for the freedom of taiwanese citizens to decide freely about their own future in the future.
the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. i still work four hours a week in a small hospital in alb clinic on the swabian alb as a doctor. i've had the challenge over and over again that patients who have fallen while skiing in italy, for example, now show up with some kind of injury and i don't know exactly what they have. that is why it is necessary to conduct double examinations. it's bad for the patient, it's expensive, and it's just unnecessary. that is why a european health data area is very important so that we can exchange primary data here. secondary data as anonymized data that is made available to science is also incredibly important. science can only be as good as the data it is provided with. it is clear that this is sensitive data. it's clear that we need very high data protection requirements. but this is not data that is being collected again, but data that is already being collected and for which a common platform for exchange is to be created. for us, for europe, a good opportunity - not a little europe everywhere, but a strong europe in the right places.
the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. we are the people's representatives. and we know from surveys: people don't want all our treatments, all our physical and mental disorders, to be unsolicited, collected in a europe-wide networked electronic patient file and exposed to security risks as you plan. there must be no compulsion to electronic patient records. the majority of citizens also don't want our doctors to be able to look at our entire medical history without asking, from mental disorders to abortions to power issues on the pc. an electronic patient file has its advantages, but as a pirate, my conviction is that no one has the right to know better than myself what's good for me and my health. more than two-thirds of europeans also reject the idea that industry can access my unidentified health data, such as psychotherapy files, without our consent to product development. why don't you ask the patients what they want? they want to actually uncover the medical secret in the interest of industry, which protects us from being shy about a withdrawal therapy, for example, out of shame or concern for our reputation. do you know what you're doing to families? stop trying to convince us that good care or research is only possible through such disabling of patients. our amendments show how progress and respect for patient welfare can go hand in hand. that's why it has to stay. my physical and mental health is my business, my health data is mine. you have to respect that. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. thank you very much, mr rapporteur. in order to collect representative data, there are representative studies. and they work with the consent of the patients. this could also be further extended by, for example, making data donations possible. they themselves propose a right of objection, which also does not guarantee full representativeness. but it is also true that we know that the right to object is hardly used and hardly usable where such a system exists because it is complicated to go through a written procedure, to go through an electronic procedure. that is why our proposal is not optional. our suggestion is to ask the patients if they would object. it's a fair election, and i think we should agree to it tomorrow. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. dear colleague, there is no right of participation for patients at the first stage in the question what data is actually recorded in this new data room? you know what ? article 7 of this template requires that each treatment must contain at least a summary of all diagnoses, i.e. all our mental and health problems be recorded and recorded. even if i object to access, that alone puts my most personal health data at risk. 40% of patients in europe are rightly concerned about data breaches. when we read the papers, we know how dangerous that is. we also have no opt-in, no consent requirement when it comes to sensitive data, like psychotherapy files. it is a gap and it does not correspond to the will of the majority of citizens.
- madam president, please. this regulation on the european health data area with its compulsory digital patient records is a perversion of any data protection which actually provides for active consent for the collection of personal data. it is a political castration of the member states to replace national health policies with a totalitarian data breach in brussels. it is the end of the medical obligation to remain silent and an unparalleled dismissal of all citizens if, in addition to all medical treatment, disability, mental illness or vaccination, it is also a sounding noise? also literally observations on social background, occupational status, education, lifestyle, behavioural data, for example from wellness applications or medical warnings, are stored without any objection attached to their name and place of residence. are they too fat, too thin, drink wine, smoke, or otherwise not good? the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. even data collected before the entry into force of the patient records can be incorporated afterwards. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the data is kept in good condition. and the contradiction to the so-called secondary use, that is to say the uncontrolled transfer of the collected data to politics, research and big pharma, is as hollow as swiss cheese, because to protect others covid is a nice greeting and in other emergencies that the commission calls, it ends emergencies such as a deterioration of the economic assets of the union or the climate crisis. it's not just the end of our health insurance solidarity community and the beginning of a self-blame medicine. this regulation has everything it needs to educate citizens like immature mouths in the future. let's finally show brussels the red card.
the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. documentation is so incredibly important for the health of individuals and individuals that nothing that has developed in a person's health can be forgotten. of course, only for prevention and treatment and completely discreet and not for third parties or even the public. this is why data protection is so important in the context of the european health data area. but at the same time, it is so important that we secure this data across borders and sustainably. there is one other thing that this data is so important about, which is the future, for research, for research, for research. so it's important that we do it across borders, that we make it possible to store data anonymously, because this generation and the next generation will benefit from this kind of research being possible. in austria, the possibility of opt-out is so important to us. the european health data area should be the same as the electronic health record at home in austria. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card procedure.)
question on the procedure of the blue card. thank you very much, mr president. you have raised the right of opt-out against the elga, which austria wishes to retain. we are in germany the same way. do you see that the text as adopted by the committee guarantees this right of opt-out? i mean, if you read article 7 obligation to register all treatments there is no opt-out right. we have tabled an amendment together with mr wolken and others to put that into writing. how do you feel about that?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. it's not the wording, it's not the wording, it's the possibility. and we represent the citizens of europe who have the right to register. i therefore also used the term 'unsubscribe' as a general term. and this will be possible, especially with the european health data area as we will decide here.
the answer to a reply is according to the blue card procedure. do you mean by unsubscribe you can only object to access? because if you object to just one access, then of course, the data is collected first -- all the treatments, all the mental-physical problems are put in the room first, and then, of course, there are security risks. we basically read every week that this hospital was hacked, that this healthcare provider was virtually a victim of a hacker attack. are you in favor of me also being able to dispute the entire collection, and where in the text do you see that already anchored?
the reaction is according to the blue card procedure. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. i would like to point out that for me, health is not a subject we should sacrifice to party conflicts. it is a question of health, of the confidence of the citizens in the health system, of achieving the objectives i have mentioned: documentation for individuals, documentation for research, and in a framework of trust that we must ultimately ensure as the european union. i can assure you once again that i am firmly convinced that the majority of this house will pass this act in a way that will ensure that trust is maintained and that we can achieve the goals for human health now and in the future.
i would like to ask the commissioner to do something about this. i think no one here is denying that health data is the most sensitive thing we actually have in our hands. i'm going to explain this file here, which sounds very theoretical, using a practical example from my own family: someone from my family had to go to a specialist doctor in germany to get their foot treated, and they took x-rays. but she would have liked to have had a second opinion in belgium with a specialist, and the hospital in germany couldn't send her this file, these x-rays, by email button. the moral of the story was that we got the x-rays a few weeks later, after the date in belgium, and this family member rightly said, "what kind of world are we living in in europe?" so i'm for this european space where we're sensitive to sensitive data. i'm for digital patient records, just like i'm for getting a medical record on your passport, for example, and then you can go across the border to a pharmacy. i'm for all this. but i'm also for us to remain the owners of our sensitive data. i'm more of a team of vigilants, and we should also make sure that every owner keeps his sensitive data.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. the european health data area is a project that must strike the right balance between data protection on the one hand and the legitimate interests of patients who want to experience good cross-border treatment quickly, easily and efficiently. the example of mr arimont shows quite clearly that i could find similar examples in my family that improvement is simply necessary. i am very grateful to you, commissioner kyriakides, that we are now putting this difficult balance between trust and data protection on the one hand, but also the final step towards a european data space. we must not only argue with fear, we must also build confidence that we will leave the data in a protected space where doctors and patients can decide together what happens to that data. fear will not help us. we also need to use what digitization brings to this space. i believe that the text, as it is to be put to the vote tomorrow, is the right way to go. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card procedure.)
question on the procedure of the blue card. we have a transition from the opt-in system in germany which means that you have to agree to an electronic patient file to an opt-out system you can object to it planned. are you in favour of maintaining this right of objection in the future? and if so, where exactly in the regulation do you see that anchors the idea that you can already object to data collection? article 7 does not mention the right to object where that is stated. we have tabled an amendment to include this in the report.
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. thank you very much, mr president. i am not sure if this is the case with the commission. i think we need to realise the transnational importance of such opt-out rights. i would like to see this all done in europe. some national health systems have a different system. and i think and in that respect we may not be entirely in agreement that the overriding interest in the european health data area is that we are finally coming to a cost reduction across borders in the interest of patients. i think that with some experience we can really get this opt-out right that's so important to you. but i don't think it's the core of this project at the beginning of the day, but i think the important thing is that we should take the first step now, finally, to bring health data forward, of course, with great protection for the data that is affected, so that we can help citizens across borders quickly and easily.
the answer to a reply is according to the blue card procedure. i understand, mr president, that you want to take account of the different approaches. there are indeed member states where there is no such opt-out right. but our proposal also only provides for the possibility for member states to introduce or maintain such an opt-out right. that means that we want the member states to have the choice at all and we want to include that in the text. so far, the text says all treatments must be registered. i think that the commission should be able to take a decision on this. would you not make it clear that such opt-out rights can be introduced or maintained at national level?
mr president, mr commissioner schmit, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i think you are seeing something special here right now that pressure is being put on the commission from all sides to the right to say: this must be done quickly now, we have waited three years. and i think when we think about what we're in, we realize we're not in a bad place for that. we have the work of the social partners who have leaned on this. and i think it's also an important message that we can't waste any more time on things like impact assessments right now because we have the work of the social partners. i think that's functional subsidiarity. they're all about the problems, they've been bent over them. in the end, it was not enough for employers. i would like to say once again that unanimity is not only a problem in the council but also possibly in other organisations. don't waste time, make a good proposal here there is wide support for it. we asked for this because a third of employees still accept new surveys in the summer and their employers' requests for leave. stress and mental illness are on the rise. that costs a lot more money than making legislation.
mr president, i want to speak to you. the right to be turned off and to be able to turn it off is not an exotic subject, but a bitter one. every year, over 300 million people worldwide suffer from depression, mental health problems related to work. the reason: stress, work-contraction and the lack of work-life balance. according to a survey, during the lockdown, about a third of workers started working from home. many continue to do the telework. digitalisation and modern forms of communication make it possible to work from anywhere and ensure permanent access. the result is that the private and the professional are increasingly blurred. as a result, more and more people are stressed and sick. in fact, working hours are regulated, preferably by contract or by law. but where the employers are not complying with this right, commissioner, new rules are needed and above all the enforcement of the existing ones. it needs more control. as i said, it's not an exotic subject, but a bitter reality.
the minutes of yesterday's meeting and the texts adopted are available. do you have any objections? the minutes are approved.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission's declaration on the defence of democracy package (2023/3026(rsp)).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, madam vice-presidents, madam commissioner, yes, we have issues with foreign interference, with hybrid interventions from abroad, and with corrupt politicians at home. but frankly, those issues are not quite new. there has always been money that spoke louder than words if paid to the right people. there was always corruption and always politicians for sale to foreign powers. so what is new? i will tell you what is new. a political trend where authoritarians and anti-democrats set their ngos under pressure by accusing them of being foreign agents, by blaming them for representing interests of their grantors, by imposing on the ngos the burden of bureaucracy, distracting them from their original burden: the burden of saving democracy. this should not happen with this law, for one simple reason: we are not authoritarians. we do not want to assist authoritarians in the eu to label, prosecute, pressure their civil society, and this is our goal with this legislation. we must strike a delicate balance between accountability and freedom. this is how history will judge us, will judge you, and will judge this legislation. let’s do everything possible to defend our free space for our civil society.
- madam president, please. the european commission wants to protect european democracy from covert influences by foreign rogue states and unwanted regimes. i am not sure what the commission is going to do with the commission. eu-critical politicians and parties are often accused of being unfairly financed by non-eu powers, as far as i know. the commission's criticism is not of euro-critics, but of ngos and civil society, who uncontrollably influence eu energy, climate and pro-migration policies. because ngos are exempt from eu anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism legislation, funding ngos and their political affiliations are all too often kept in the dark. so let's bring more transparency to covert political influence, but please not only from undesirable third countries, but also from ngos and openly commercial conflicts of interest, like ms von leyen's text correspondence with pharmacies like pfizer and us consulting firms or the presence of blackrock advisers directly in the ecb. because from western oligarchs -- from their so-called philanthropists -- like george soros, bill gates, or klaus schwab, it's pretty certain that more money flows into eu politics and ngos than from all non-eu third countries combined. and please don't be too shy. the theory is that our judges are not allowed to have contact with the parties they are adjudicating. so why don't we categorically ban our politicians from any contact with ngos and lobbyists? if they take their own lip-synching seriously, that would certainly be a good start.
we have a blue card from colleague sokol. however, there is no provision for the exchange of blue cards between colleagues from the same group.
it was a member of your own parliamentary group, so we are not accepting that. we are not having conversations between colleagues of your own group.
the debate is closed. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 171.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the need to release all hostages and implement a humanitarian ceasefire and the prospects for a two-state solution (2023/3020(rsp)).
mr president, i want to speak to you. despite the relief of the release of some hostages, we must not forget that many people are still in the hands of hamas terrorists. the shocking reports of unleashed sexual violence by hamas terrorists against israeli women and girls, which have been far too little discussed, are evidence of hamas' willingness to violence, yes, of its inhumanity. in view of this cruelty, this is not the time for the un secretary-general guterres to demand an immediate and comprehensive ceasefire. humanitarian breaks for the provision of food to the civilian population: yes. but with a terrorist group like hamas, there can be no truce negotiated. it's important to look ahead. the people of israel need a credible perspective on living in security and peace. the palestinian population also needs a credible perspective on life as israel's neighbors in a viable state. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. we too, as the european union, can contribute by pooling and using our political, social and financial resources together without benefiting terrorists and their networks. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question on the blue card procedure.)
question on the procedure of the blue card. thank you, mrs bear, for your comments. but i have a question because you say it's not the time for a permanent ceasefire. i want to ask you seriously: how many people still have to be killed in gaza? how many children still have to cry for their parents or carry dead bodies around the area so that the german federal government can finally say that a permanent ceasefire is needed? do you not realise how cynical it is that you, your party and the federal government represent the federal republic of germany? do you not realize how the peoples of the world must think while you on the one hand for ukraine... (the president withdraws the speaker.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i am with you on your last sentence, madam president: no one should die. but here, this war has been started by hamas, a terrorist organization that has been oppressing its own people for decades. and so the answer to that question is, when do you finally realize that we need to fight this terrorism? this is a fight we are waging for palestinian civilians, who are also oppressed by hamas.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear indication of the importance of this report. it is very important that we speak in this plenary session about the release of the remaining hostages, unfortunately the majority of them, and that we speak about this in the order and the wording of the debate. need to release all hostages to achieve a humanitarian ceasefire and the prospect of the two-state solution because the issue of hostage release has already disappeared from the headlines, and there has been little new, hopeful information lately about negotiations to release more hostages. we must keep this subject on the agenda. we must not give up on our efforts, on the contrary, we must strengthen them. today we honoured jhina amini with the sakharov prize for her extraordinary courage as an individual. we believe that every human being has an innate dignity and the right to freedom. that's why we can never settle for anything until all the hostages are released. and finally, the release of all hostages is, in my view, a condition for a humanitarian ceasefire. it's up to the terrorists to make a difference. every second, every minute, every hour, they could release hostages. why are they still being held? to free convicted criminals? the palestinian civilians could also contribute to a change. they too could distance themselves from hamas and also promote its release. we as europeans have the highest commandment of humanity. we must demand it of all and for all.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it has become clear that the european union has actively supported all efforts to keep the political dialogue between venezuelans alive. and i repeat that the only way to a peaceful, inclusive and democratic solution to the crisis in venezuela is through political negotiation. you have made many very important suggestions for this. but we must be aware that the latest developments in venezuela show the fragility of the agreement in barbados. some of you have even wondered whether it was worth reaching these agreements in the light of what is happening. i believe that we must maintain our full readiness to support and encourage the continuation of the dialogue between the government and the opposition, in coordination and consultation with our international and regional partners. because only a peaceful and democratic solution, led by the venezuelans themselves, will allow us to restore political stability, economic growth and social well-being to the millions of venezuelans who need it today. we will therefore continue to support the democratic aspirations of the venezuelan people, providing humanitarian aid within and outside their borders. more than seven million venezuelans have left the country and we must also support the states and societies that have welcomed them. i believe that i have taken very good note of all your views and, in general, of your deep concern for the human rights situation in venezuela. the number of political prisoners, the obstacles to fundamental political rights, such as the opposition's inability to hold public office, the increased restrictions on press freedom or civil society: these issues must be resolved in the run-up to the next presidential election. ladies and gentlemen, you have made many allusions to sanctions as well. i remind you that restrictive measures, which is what we formally call sanctions, which is a word that does not exist in our treaty, is a colloquial way of referring to the concept of restrictive measures adopted by the council of the union, which is the only one that can do this, which is a means of promoting a solution. they are a means to achieve a negotiated and peaceful solution between venezuelans. and we designed them so that they do not harm the venezuelan population. these are selective, gradual and flexible measures that must be able to be maintained, suppressed, graduated or limited in time, depending on the progress made towards the goal we are pursuing, which is the restoration of democracy. we can't fix them forever, we have to adapt them to the circumstances. and in that adaptation there are certainly risks, but there is also the risk of losing opportunities. we will also continue to monitor the recent escalation of tensions between venezuela and guyana, supporting efforts to ensure that both sides can resolve their differences through diplomatic channels, in a multilateral framework and in accordance with international law. i once again welcome the role played by the region in its attempt to de-escalate tensions. and i finish as i started at the beginning of this debate. the next year will be of great importance for venezuela, as well as for the region. it's been five years since 2019. in the second half of 2024 we will be addressing a new opportunity for venezuela to fully re-enter the democratic countries and international financial markets. i hope that we will be able to demonstrate firmness and consistency in supporting the desire of venezuelans to regain this democratic path, for which the next presidential election should be an opportunity that no one should miss and much less endanger. we will be vigilant and active to help make this happen.
this debate is now closed.
the next item is the debate on council and commission statements on the european economic security strategy (2023/2925(rsp)).
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on behalf of the council. it's a hard day. i'll keep explaining it in spanish. i am sure that my friend, vice-president dombrovskis, will be able to follow through on the translation helmets, but i will be more quick and concise to allow the commission time to explain in detail the content of the joint communication that we have approved by the high representative and the commission on the economic security strategy. i would like to thank the commission for the opportunity to inform parliament on a matter which also concerns the common foreign and security policy. i would like to remind you that when we discussed the strategy for relations between the european union and china in april last year and the commission president announced her wish to launch an economic security strategy, i pointed out that when we talk about economic security we put two words together: economic and security. security was the noun and economics was the adjective. we have therefore finally agreed to make this communication a joint task between the commission, responsible for economic policies within the european union, and the high representative, which provides the vision of security within the framework of the common foreign policy. i want to make it clear that we have taken the first steps, but that this is a long process that is part of a period of constant effort. my colleague, the vice-president, will give a full account of what we have done since this communication was adopted in june. i will only point out three ideas that i believe are fundamental. firstly, it is important that the union has its own vision of economic security, different and complementary to that which several member states have already begun to develop individually. because from any point of view, economic security is a european public good. because the member states alone could not successfully meet the challenges posed, neither in economic security nor in security in the dry. we have seen this in the face of russia's war on ukraine and we see this in the face of the problems that our relationship with china poses to us; in the face of the value chains, the process of de-risking our trade relations and, in general, the maintenance of security objectives in the framework of an open global economy. the second idea is that there is not enough consensus today on many of the issues affecting economic security. some fear that economic security will erode the multilateral trading system and others believe that security must gain ground against the logic of economic efficiency. that, of course, forces us to consider a strategy against the united states and china taking into account the risks we face today and the vulnerabilities we have in many areas that have been manifested in the case of russia's war against ukraine. the third is that i think we must move forward on a crucial aspect, which is governance of this economic security. many countries are implementing institutional reforms to bring economic security into line with their governmental structures, and japan is a pioneer in this area. how to coordinate existing national security structures dealing with economic issues, creating, if necessary, new bodies, as japan has done. this is something we must also take into account in the complex institutional system of the european union. it is a reflection that we have left for later, but i think it is not appropriate to delay it any longer because the responsibilities of the various actors involved at the state and community level must be identified. we have set up a working group with the member states, led by the commission, a few weeks ago, to assess the risks posed by certain critical technologies available to third countries. this includes applying geopolitical filters to differentiate between the greater or lesser risks posed by some countries and others. it is clear that when we differentiate between countries we are also talking about our external relations and that the european council must also take the lead in this regard. i think it is a far-reaching and complex task on which our safety and well-being largely depend. we must be able to engage the reflections related to economic security, understanding security in a broader sense. i think this can be a good opportunity to hear the views of the members and to give both the commission and the high representative a political approach that will enable us to move forward together in the development of this economic security strategy.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for inviting me to this plenary debate on european economic security strategy. and i am happy to be here with the vice-president / high representative to reflect on our joint efforts. to successfully roll out the european economic security strategy, it is absolutely crucial for us to work closely with parliament and the member states. the purpose of the strategy is simple, in a context of increased geopolitical tensions and accelerated technological shifts, the strategy aims at minimising risks arising from certain economic relations and activities, while preserving a maximum level of economic openness and dynamism. to achieve this, we cannot afford to be divided. when we do not act together, we are a playground. when we do act together, we are a player. so it is clear the eu needs to develop a shared understanding of key risks. and the economic strategy provides a framework for a robust assessment and management of risks at the eu and national level. uh. the strategy identifies four broad risk categories: the resilience of supply chains; the physical and cyber security of critical infrastructure; technology security and technology leakage; and the weaponisation of economic dependencies or economic coercion. the strategy is based on three main pillars of action: promoting the eu’s competitiveness and growth; strengthening the single market, supporting a strong and resilient economy; and fostering the eu’s research, technological and industrial base. protecting our economies through a range of policies and tools included targeted new instruments where needed and partnering with the broadest possible range of countries worldwide to diversify and strengthen mutual resilience. in the rollout of the strategy, our approach will be targeted and proportionate. we intend to focus on those risks that have potentially high impact on the eu or its member states, and high likelihood of occurrence. moreover, by jointly tackling these risks with international partners and allies, we secure our ability to trade and innovate openly. so you see, economic security is not about closing in. it is not about inward looking protectionism. rather the opposite, the precision in tackling risks that matter will allow the eu to continue benefiting from our openness. speaking of the strategies rollout, on 3 october, the commission delivered the first product, a recommendation on critical technology areas. out of the ten critical technology areas, the recommendation identifies four areas for immediate joint-risk assessments with member states: advanced semiconductor technologies; artificial intelligence technologies; quantum technologies; and biotechnologies. these joint-risk assessments on technology, security and leakage are currently ongoing and should be concluded early next year. in parallel, as the commission is conducting three further risk assessments on supply chain dependencies, on critical infrastructure, and on weaponisation of economic dependencies and economic coercion. these assessments will allow us to identify our strengths to preserve and vulnerabilities to address. they inform, but not prejudge on the measures to take at the eu or national level. we are also looking into our existing toolbox to ensure that it is fit for purpose. by early next year, we will present several initiatives announced in the strategy in the areas of trade, investment and research. first, we will present a legislative proposal for the revision of the fdi screening regulation. this will be built on the practical experience we and member states have gained since october 2020 from reviewing more than 1000 foreign direct investment transactions. second, in full respect of the eu and member states respective competences, we will present a proposal to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the current export-controls regime. export controls introduced by one member state can affect supply chains in the whole single market, so we need to improve our collective effectiveness and coordination. we also need to reinforce the eu’s capacity to act as a global actor, in the context where multilateral export-control regimes are under pressure, and where we see several unilateral controls being introduced on critical technologies or critical inputs. third, we have started examining potential security risks related to outbound investments. the eu and member states have a common interest in preserving the narrow set of technologies and know-how to avoid leaks to actors that will use them to enhance their military and intelligence capabilities and to undermine international peace and security. we launched a dedicated expert group with member states to investigate potential risks linked to outbound investment. the third meeting of the group will take place on 15 december. separately, we are also consulting the business community on this new work stream and to take the work on outbound investment further, the commission will present an initiative as part of the package early next year. fourth, we will present a proposal to lay out long term options for targeted support for research and innovation on dual use technologies. and fifth, will present a proposal to increase research security by raising awareness among researchers and academics across europe to ensure that we can collectively prevent technology leakage at the level of our research outputs and innovations. this will build on our existing toolkit for tackling foreign interference for universities and other research institutions, and on the mutual learning exercise among member states. honourable members, the work on next steps is ongoing. i am confident that today’s debate will feed into the proposal that we are set to unveil early next year. more generally, we strongly count on the support of the european parliament to ensure that our union has what it takes to increase its resilience and economic security in the current geopolitical context. we can only do so by acting together.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of certain products. the covid-19 pandemic and the russian war on ukraine have shown us very impressively how vulnerable our supply chains are and where strategic dependencies on third countries exist. it is therefore, in principle, right to strengthen the resilience of our supply chains, to ensure access to critical raw materials and to consider how we can position key sectors such as semiconductor industry in europe. the commission has already taken the first steps in this direction. i would like to warn you, however, that the strategic autonomy and the strengthening of european economic security are only a narrow line to protectionism. and we shouldn't go to that. we are an export-oriented economy that, like no other economic area, may benefit from an open and rules-based international trade order. we should also not do anything to give the impression that we are now on the road to protectionism. the key way to protect our economy and our prosperity is to keep europe competitive and make it competitive where we are not. this is the main task we have been focusing on, and unfortunately in recent years a lot has been lost. if we are to recover, we need, above all, a reinforcement on the supply side, a new pact for competitiveness. we must finally reuse the single market as it was intended: not for the exclusion of the european union, but as the force behind success on world markets. the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. and please, not only do a strategy, but do actions. that's the only way we're measured.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr dombrovskis, mr borrell, first of all, i would like to say that i very much appreciate the joint communication by the commission and the high representative, because i believe it is a strategy that was necessary. i agree with it, both in terms of content and opportunity. i also agree with the risks identified in relation to the resilience of supply chains, energy security and critical infrastructure, technological backwardness and coercion. the truth is that in the current geopolitical context, the boundaries between economy and security that mr borrell referred to earlier are becoming increasingly blurred and the risks involved can put our democracies and our economies at risk as we are unfortunately already seeing. it is therefore crucial that the european union develops a legal framework for economic security that defends our objective interests and maximises the benefits of an open economy, but also minimizes the risks of excessive dependence and vulnerability. the european union must defend interests by building strategic trade and diplomatic alliances that are to be solid, stable and lasting with reliable third countries, with the essential aim of promoting the international economic order based on rules and strengthening the role of the wto in monitoring, promoting sustainable trade, defending competition and resolving disputes in a renewed system. the european union has developed various tools to protect its economic security, but it is essential to carry out periodic risk assessments and efficiency analyses of the instruments used, because the instruments are either effective and timely or not useful. i believe that the time variable must always be taken into account in all political actions and therefore it is essential to speed up the procedures... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, vice-president, colleagues, without an effective economic security strategy, ten years down the line european industry will not have a seat at the table but be on the menu. that’s why i’m grateful to president von der leyen and also executive vice-president dombrovskis for taking the lead in this conversation. and i do agree with what you said, mr borrell, that we look to need to look into the governance issues and maybe also learn from japan in that context. we need a full picture of our strategic dependencies and risks, and we should encourage the member states to play along well in that regard. we should not think that we have seen all the dangers over the horizon yet. i believe that there is a real risk that there will be waves of dumping exports from china over the next couple of years. we must not fall into the trap of having a struggle between the member states and brussels. we must not fall into the trap of protectionism, and we must not fall into the trap of forgetting the strength of the single market. there, i agree with mr ferber, but there is more that we have to do long term. we need a strategy to internalise the external cost of security in our economies. and finally, if we want to play offence, we also need to team up with partners globally, including in countries of the global south.
on behalf of the ecr club. mr. speaker, the joke says that a man was driving a car on the highway and heard a radio report that a lunatic was driving in the wrong direction. his reaction was, "no one, everyone's going the wrong way!" well, that's what european union policy sometimes looks like to me. we're driving in the wrong direction, blaming everyone else. the european union has fully aligned its economy with a green plan that has seen a complete debacle now at the climate change conference in dubai. the commission assures us that we are the world leaders, and it seems that we are leaders that no one follows, not even the united states that obviously does not want to give up fossil fuels. we need a real and effective approach to the economy and environmental policy, and you have declared people, livestock and everyone else who produces co2 pollutants to be the planet's polluters and are fueling their lives. so don't be like the driver from the beginning of my speech. think for a moment that you may be wrong, and in any case, the voters will show you that you are wrong in the election.
- mr. president, please. i suggest you think about it. the regulation on the review of foreign direct investment has been in force for three years, so we do not yet have enough information to assess it. however, it is clear that the extension of the commission's powers is not the right way to go, as national security is a member state's responsibility. that's something to be respected. it is also an inappropriate approach to question the relationship with one of our largest trading partners as a central element of a strategy. europe is not in a position to label investments and alienate its partners because in the end, there is no one left to do business with us. connecting, not isolating, is in our best interests. in the case of outbound investments, the restriction should be the only last resort. i hope that the commission will continue to consult the member states and will not forget the impact assessment, as it is life-threatening to come up with any legislation without it. we need to know exactly how they would affect our competitiveness and our business environment. if we don't get back on the road to rationality, jobs will be lost in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. the european economy is under pressure. the russian war of aggression against ukraine, but also other geopolitical shifts, are challenging us. it is therefore appropriate that the commission respond and analyse strategic dependencies, for example in the raw materials, energy and technology sectors. it is also good that we have recognised that we must promote the competitiveness of the eu. i am concerned that the commission is trying again with this proposal to solve problems by bureaucracy. we must finally succeed in moving away from this approach and offer our european companies realistic and practical solutions. too much governmental influence ultimately for overregulation goes against the principle of open markets. please involve companies in the decision-making process, de-bureaucratise and do not overregulate markets.
mr president, i want to speak to you. in bavaria, there was already a loud cry many years ago about whether this could be the sale of key technologies to a chinese group when industrial robot manufacturer kuka was taken over. geopolitical tensions and technological progress are making these processes more fragile than ever. with an eu strategy for economic security, it is right to protect chips, quantum technologies, artificial intelligence and biotechnology in europe on a targeted basis. and the eu legislation on semiconductors and critical raw materials is now strengthening europe's independence from geopolitically questionable partners. if the competition between the us and china in the technology sector is to increase, europe must decide wisely and calmly and precisely: without resorting to protectionism. and it is clear that de-risking promoting research and development and partnership with like-minded partners will be central to economic, strategic decisions for a strong europe in the future.
mr president, i want to speak to you. the decade of foreign and economic naivety is over. we must take the threat of autocracies to our democracy, to our society, to our economy very seriously. we must not respond by using similar methods for our system rivals. we must not be able to answer by scratching our internal market and pampering the champions rather than looking at the diversity of our economy with its many small and mediumsized enterprises. because the spiral of subsidies and protectionism is pure poison for fair competition and growth. we must be able to strengthen our internal market. the commission must also show that reducing bureaucracy is more than a word of mouth in the union's situation. we must put planned european laws to the test and we must reduce the existing ones. we must create new markets through more free trade, access to energy and raw materials through more partnerships. the commission is not going to be able to stop companies from becoming stronger if it is serious about strengthening economic security in europe.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, russia is a terrorist state and commits terrorist acts. the explosion of kakhovka dam, destruction of chemical plants, deforestation, contamination of soil, water and air, areas filled with mines..., this is only a short list of ecological crimes which russia did to ukraine. behind the damage done to nature, ordinary people are suffering. ukrainians lost their livelihoods. millions of families have no drinking water. farmers lost their arable land for generations. this means more suffering, more hunger in and outside of ukraine. for these crimes, putin must be held accountable and to hold russia accountable ukraine must win. don’t block the roads or bargain with the security of ukraine. every division, every weakness we show motivates putin to conquer and to destroy even more. he claims that ‘russia borders never end’. we must prove him wrong.
mr president, i want to speak to you. last week, a ukrainian soldier had been to my office and reported from the frontline, she came straight from the frontline, what she was experiencing there and what the situation in ukraine is in general. she asked that we never forget what war crimes are committed in europe. she also asked that we should always be focused on returning the children who have been abducted and offsetting the environmental damage. the environmental damage, in fact: 150 million tonnes of co2 have now been recorded as environmental damage. that's a total of 9.8 billion. this must not be ignored and must be corrected. the correction will cost at least another 55 billion. these are things where we say: europe cannot tolerate this and europe should act now. how can we act? we can act by freezing the funds. we need to generate global money that the oligarchs have somewhere. we must confiscate them and use them for these war crimes to recover them. because this is an attack on humanity, a global attack... (the president deprives the speaker of his speech.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. of course, the united states is traditionally our closest partner. but the united states is developing. if in 1945 they were still a predominantly european country by demographics, they will no longer be inhabited by the majority of europeans' descendants by 2045. but if the united states is evolving from us, it means we need to become more independent, and this concept of strategic autonomy that came up right here on the left side of the house during the presidency of donald trump. then joe biden came and said, "america is back to lead the world!" and everyone was happy that they didn't have to be strategically autonomous anymore. ladies and gentlemen, i was at donald trump's public performance in new york city this weekend. i can tell you, we're going to have to talk about strategic autonomy again, because it looks good that trump is retiring to the white house. and maybe that's a positive aspect. europe must be strategically autonomous in all directions. it's the only way to build a friendship. but friendship and partnership are different from vassalism. i hope that this will also be achieved here. we need some european pole in the world of the future. i hope the united states has him as a friend. but if he's not independent, then everything we do here is pointless.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. of course, you can disconnect from china. but the risk is that china will also disconnect from us. if we look at the share of chinese shipping in the world, it is actually declining with north america and europe, but it is also increasing with africa, the persian gulf and latin america. we can of course say that we no longer want to buy chinese products. but what will we do if the chinese stop buying european products? the chinese car market is 25 percent in the hands of german car companies. if we compare the economic growth rates in asia, especially in china, with those we have in germany and europe, then the scissors are going up and not up. so when we talk about politics, there is a lot to say about staying realistic and also taking into account our own strength and our own potential. and that does not allow us to believe that if we disconnect, we will only harm others, but above all ourselves, at a time when we are already suffering from deindustrialization and economic stagnation, even in germany, recession. in this respect, the high representative is right to say that it is time to remain realistic. china is chinese. do we like that? - no, i'm not. can we change it? - no, i'm not. is there any advantage to going to conflict, to go to sanctions, to go to economic war? not at all. we must take the world as it is, even if we do not like it, and bring out the best for the people of europe. i am afraid that the furor that is being expressed here is that economic wars and sanctions must be imposed, that disconnection must be imposed, that this reality is not being met and that it leads to error and recession.
- madam president, please. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the council, and we are now in favour of the proposal. the heads of state and government do not simply decide on a few billion more or less, but they decide whether ukraine has any chance of surviving the war against russia. and they decide whether they're willing to invest in our business location and make our infrastructure climate-friendly. the united states, china and other parts of the world are investing heavily in their infrastructure and industry. and what is europe doing? we're fighting over a few billion dollars and risking our prosperity with this shortsighted policy. half the world laughs at us. it is unflattering that the chancellor lacks vision and wants to enforce massive cuts on the proposal of the european commission. but the elephant in the room is viktor orbán again. it's wrong to give him the money in a predetermined manner, there are other options. take away viktor orbán's right to vote and make sure the summit is a success! the european parliament is ready for negotiations. now the heads of state and government must take responsibility.
blue-card question. – madam president, dear mr glucksmann, thanks a lot for this strong intervention in favour of support for ukraine. i just wanted to ask, what would you do if you were commission president now and you had the choice to act and rein orban in? what would you do?
madam president, dear colleagues. señora presidenta, bienvenido al parlamento europeo, querido pedro. thank you very much, dear prime minister, for a presidency that began under challenging circumstances but that has achieved so many results. let me just name two. one is that we have really come a long way on discussing new rules on migration. we’re not there yet, but we’re progressing. and the other is the ai act that we managed to conclude, and with which the european union is the first area to regulate this important topic. and also, congratulations on how you managed to get spain through these difficult times: excellent economic data, very low unemployment rates. that is really something. now i only have a minute of speaking time, so i can’t really reply very much to all that has been said about the amnesty. but as far as i can see, in these very difficult times when you have a divided society – and that has happened more than once in spanish history – amnesty has been a matter to solve this. and if you manage that the catalan separatist parties renounce to pursue their goal unilaterally, i think this is a great achievement also for the rule of law.
madam president, prime minister, this has been quite a national debate, so i want to bring it back to the european level. we have the euco coming, and i do want to ask you the question that we asked the president of the commission this morning, what are you going to do to make sure that orbán is reined in, that we don’t give in to his blackmailing when it comes to our support for ukraine, for the formal accession talks? are you going to take away the council presidency? are you going to push forward the article 7 procedures? please let us know your plan about that.
following the appointment of mr radosław sikorski as a member of the polish government, the parliament shall, in accordance with the rules of procedure, decide on the release of his seat with effect from 13 december 2023.
following the establishment of four acp delegations, the president's appointments to these new delegations have been notified by the factions and non-factional members as of 1 january 2024. the lists of members of the delegations shall be published online and in the minutes.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes.)
the vote is closed. (the sitting was suspended for a short time)
in the name of the s&d faction. the commissioner, the secretary of state, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission and the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission and the commission, imagine once again that you are 20 years old, full of action, you want to try yourself, you want to experience yourself and to engage in society. and for us, this is a good memory, for many a hope, but for many, many, many people in a really, really far distance. and not because they don't want to get involved, but because they don't have a chance to find affordable housing if they're trainees, if they're students, if they're new to the profession or they're young and have a minimum wage. that's why it's so important, because it has dramatic consequences. this youth needs confidence for the future, and it cannot be if it is forced to stay at home, if it cannot develop and if it does not have the prospects it needs. because we know that in the early stages of life, when we don't have certain developmental opportunities, it's very difficult to catch up later. the eu must therefore invest much more in social housing. it has leverage, it has funds which have been mentioned here, but the youth guarantee has also been mentioned. this is all too little, and it's not really strategically positioned here. so i think, we think we need a youth perspective package, that we need to give young people a good perspective and support them, right at the beginning of their own independent lives, so there's more opportunity. the eu must use leverage, it must use it better, it must unite and support it so that young people can really become self-sufficient. and it's been mentioned again, i don't want to forget, there are young people who end up on the streets because they lose their homes because of inflation, rising rent, rising marginal rents. we need more european support here, because our promise is the future and we will leave no one behind.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not going to be able to do this. christmas is coming a beautiful time many look forward to. but we cannot imagine how many families with children and adolescents this time is a challenge. rising living costs, rising food prices, horribly high rents that eat up a large portion of income: this means uncertainty for many citizens in the european union. young or old, people don't get around. poor people are pushed to the edge of society. eroding the middle class. young people are afraid of the future. i have been told that the commission is not going to be able to deal with the crisis. in the federal republic of germany, discussions are taking place on how to consolidate social benefits systems. no, colleagues! those who take the concerns and needs of the citizens seriously invest in social infrastructure, not in rearmament and war. he's investing in apartments, affordable for everyone.
in the name of the s&d faction. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of certain products. we were all in a tremendous shock and shocked a year ago by a shock that shook this house. we, as the s&d group, have been immediately active and ambitious in pushing for far-reaching reforms to strengthen transparency and integrity. i want to give you a few examples of how we together here in this house have changed our own rules of procedure, which i have been responsible for as rapporteur: from now on, all lobbying meetings must be disclosed. reporting agents must also report on who they met when they produced their reports and received input. we will have full transparency on side jobs from 2024, including on the penny, on what contributions are involved, what the members of parliament earn by the way, and what the transparency register or events are about. we have done a lot, especially with regard to third countries, to increase transparency. because transparency does not restrict, it does not attack the free mandate, it creates trust. but it will be very crucial here for further implementation. we could have imagined more of ourselves here in this house, as well as in terms of control skills. and in the end, the best rules don't help unless they're applied. so it's important that we keep looking at it and not say after a year, "all right, we've got the rules in place". but we really need to look and evaluate that these rules are being applied. i also know some of you don't go far enough, but that was the compromise here in the house. we would have liked to have gone on to some points, but in the end we didn't have a majority for that either as far as a real ethics authority is concerned and so we have to keep insisting that there is an independent ethics authority because what is on the table is not enough.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not going to be able to do this. one year after katargate, you can now read more information, you just have to look at politico. it is written in great detail: an excel list of all the cases where you actually wanted to influence the institution, then the beautiful text exchange where mrs kaili tried to offer the parliamentary president tickets to the world cup in qatar, which mrs metsola, by the way, refused. and now we are all discussing here, again suggesting what we have done about measures, but the key point is this: a year later we still have no charges in this case. but we have a conflict of interest with the belgian authorities' chief investigator, and this outrageous nature of the belgian corruption investigation is drawing the investigations to an incredible length. i am saying quite clearly here that the more mistakes the belgian authorities make, the more our institutions are actually damaged. the european democracy-scandals who are rubbing their hands in hungary, which we are now giving billions more to, and which will be thrown back into corrupt pockets. i am always in favour of more transparency and anti-corruption rules, but anyone who takes out 100 000 euros in cash will not be able to register them in the future. we must regulate this in criminal law and we must also act clearly.
mr president, commissioner, council, it has been a year since qatargate and it was quite a shock, to be honest, also for me personally, that colleagues in our house would actually be that corrupt. and since then we have tried a lot to improve our rules, and i think that was very necessary to win at least some of the trust back that we lost because of qatargate. but i’m not sure it’s going to be enough. and i also want to bring us to the title of today’s debate, which is about eu institutions. it’s not only about parliament, and i think an equally big scandal, if not even bigger, is that tomorrow and the day after, we will have a foreign agent sitting in a very opaque body, the 27 heads of state and government actually representing russia’s interests when we decide about ukraine’s future. for me, it’s really crucial that we understand that we have a new gate happening, russiagate, if you want, when roubles from russia roll into budapest for blocking our support for ukraine. this can’t continue and we have to work on it. so let’s win back trust by reforming all bodies of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not going to be able to do this. parliament was probably in the spotlight as rarely in the days after eva kaili and others were arrested. everyone in europe has seen the pockets full of cash. in the days following this, we adopted a strong resolution here in parliament with a long catalogue of proposals on how to prevent this from happening again in the future. now, a year later, we see that relatively little of what we all almost unanimously demanded last december has actually been implemented. yeah, we have to expose all our lobby meetings now. yes, we've improved the whistleblower protection a little bit and yes, we've introduced asset declarations, even if that doesn't really start until the next election. but we have not forbidden, for example, that you can get hundreds of thousands of euros paid by qatar or other countries. you don't say it's corruption, you call it a consulting agreement, and then everything's fine. but more importantly, of course, the best rules don't help in the end unless they're enforced. i must confess that the negotiations, mrs jourová, are a bit draconian. i hope we get a committee that can also deal with individual cases, otherwise i fear that the mere setting of rules will not get us as far as we need.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not going to be able to do this. qatar was not the first country to try to influence european politics by illegal means, and it will not be the last. today, more and more decisions are being taken at european level of particular interest to third countries financial and investment policies, trade policies, visa policies. and just as our responsibility here is increasing, there are increasing attempts to influence us legally but also illegally. we have to do two things, in addition to the rules we have decided this year. first, keep the place clean. and i expect everyone here to abide by the rules we've given ourselves, and that there will finally be painful sanctions if someone doesn't. and secondly, the authorities in belgium and the member states are equipped to finally master the whole thing. i would like to ask the commissioner if he can do this, and if he can, i will ask him if he can do it.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. the commission has already taken a number of steps. baby sara is now four years old, she likes to laugh, she's just a little bit of a squirrel, and she definitely has her own head. she's raised by two people who love her, who love each other. but love can sometimes be complicated, because sara doesn't have the same rights as other children of her age, because her rights and those of her parents kalina and jane are being circumcised in bulgaria and in ten other eu countries. because they are allowed to be discriminated against in 11 member states. because 11 member states are more interested in how sara was conceived than how much she is loved or what her future looks like. we therefore support the commission's proposal to give same-sex couples a right to their child and their children a right to parental love. we are appalled that this proposal is already a red line for so many member states, whether out of false concern about their so-called traditional values here, a nice greeting to the kremlin and mr putin or out of false regard for alleged formalities. because it's not our job to complicate love. it is our task to support all children in the eu, wherever they live, whatever their parents' gender. rainbow families must be recognised in each member state, otherwise the fundamental rights of parents and children will be undermined.
mr president, it’s so sad to hear the members from the far right speaking in this manner on these families. it’s sad not because of what we think over here in this chamber, it’s sad because of those many children who have same-sex parents who will be looking and listening to this debate and hearing all this hate from members of the far right in this parliament, pretending as if these children are simply second-class citizens or non-existing children of this european union. i couldn’t continue with the speech that i prepared, because i think it is all irrelevant when i hear these things. i want to mention just one story. when we introduced same-sex adoption in malta in 2014, the first child to be adopted by a same sex-couple was a child that was rejected by, i believe, ten heterosexual couples simply because he was disabled, because he was a down’s syndrome child. this is the love that those parents showed this child. because a parent is a parent through love and care, and does not depend on their sexual orientation, does not depend on their gender identity or sexual characteristics, or even the jurisdiction they live in. parenthood is all about love and those children have parents that should be recognised everywhere.
mr. president, what is this? your honor! the scope of the exclusive powers conferred on member states is clearly defined in the treaties. compliance with this division is a key issue for the proper functioning of the european union. one of those areas is family policy, which cannot be shaped by brussels. there are no exceptions to this rule. there are different national constitutional systems that stem from the historical, legal and political experiences of sovereign nations. trying to interfere with these orders, to impose definitions on concepts like parenting, family, or marriage, is a lack of respect for these traditions and the value system of individual societies. and as far as the free movement of children is concerned, citizens of the european union can travel freely within the union because they are citizens of the union, not because they are someone else's children or they are not someone else's children. all you need is eu citizenship. you can only care for an adult, even if it's a rainbow adult.
i am not sure what the commissioner has said. what kind of union do we want to be? should a status we have legally obtained as citizens of the union in a member state be recognised throughout the eu? or do our citizens lose their rights when they cross the border? is a child a child in one member state and an orphan in another? first one, of course. it is not for nothing that the european court of justice sees it that way. the commission's proposal here is not news. i would therefore like to thank the commission for making this proposal and i would like to thank the rapporteur, maria manuel leitão-marques, for the report she has presented. but we are, of course, at risk of having a legal basis which requires unanimity in the council. i therefore ask the commission whether it is prepared to recognize that if the proposal fails in the council, it is for the free movement of citizens of the union and can therefore be adopted on the basis of the legal basis for the free movement of citizens of the union, which not only allows for a majority decision but also governs the core of the status of citizens of the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report should not be called the 'european parenthood certificate' but the 'trickle and treacherous imposition of a system of perverted values on countries whose people do not want it'. you're using the european union to impose same-sex parenting and surrogacy on countries that don't want it, and you're doing it step-by-step, first by moving a gay couple to a country whose laws state marriage is only a union between a man and a woman, then by filing lawsuits discriminating against that couple, and then by filing documents like this, and so on. by using the european union for your ideological wars, you are actually compromising the european union. and you're making the often-seen and fatal mistake of declaring the wishes of some people to be their human rights and then declaring those individual rights more important than the right institutions like marriage and the families on which our civilization was founded. so i call on all citizens to save europe in the next election by voting against all those who supported this report.
mr president, i want to speak to you. yes, i am the federal chairman of the family party of germany, and you won't believe how often i'm asked, "what do you mean by family?" that's always the most frequently asked question i get in the media. and then we say, we've found a definition, which is, wherever we find a child. everywhere we find a child, it's family to us. i'm not sure. i want to expand this even further. if i bring my father, my mother or something to me, for example, to care for or to care for, we're family again. because i'm still my parents' child, no matter how old i am. and that is the definition i would like for europe. i would like to say that the commission is not going to be able to take any further action. i was against this report at first, because our party is very clear against surrogacy. this is a crime against humanity, i'm staying here, and the woman is reduced to a commodity, and the child is reduced to a commodity. this is not possible at all and it is not compatible with european christian values. that is why i was initially against the report until i found out, dear ones: this report has nothing to do with surrogacy even though the left likes to bring it in and lgbt to bring in nothing else. this report is aimed at the welfare of the child and this report provides legal certainty in europe legal certainty that has long been obsolete. and so, look at the report again. i have come to the conclusion that i have reconsidered my position: i can only agree with the report and consider it necessary for the benefit of the children of europe and for the necessary legal certainty. and he has nothing to do with lgbt and no connection to surrogacy. it is still the responsibility of the nations to regulate this independently. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card procedure)
blue-card question. – dear mr geuking, you said now that this report has nothing to do with surrogacy and nothing to do with lgbt rights, and you support this report together with s&d, together with renew, together with the left, together with the greens; they all spoke about lgbt rights and some of them, for example, the second speaker from the s&d, spoke and claimed that there was surrogacy in this report. can you make agreement on what is written in this agreement when you support this report together?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. thank you for asking. i would like to say it very clearly: i also said that it is being abused on the left as well as on the right. it's not in there like that. borrowing will still be a crime in germany. that's how it is when you do it, and so is italy. this is the sole responsibility of the nations. so that's not in it, that's being interpreted from the left. yes, just like you interpret, we want to dissolve the classic family, father, mother, child, which is the best family picture, and that's still the case. still, that doesn't change the thing: wherever a child is, there's family. i'm not sure. the kids can't do anything about how they grow up. it is up to the nations to act accordingly and to pass laws accordingly, no more and no less.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. i have a little déjà vu. populist and putin's friend comes to power, and first he dismantles the independent judiciary and eliminates the fight against corruption. and no, we're not talking about viktor orbán here, but his neighbor robert fico. but he's using the playbook to break up the rule of law in slovakia in exactly the same way that viktor orbán did, and then there's probably corruption with eu money. we could now react in the same way as we did not in hungary for ten years: we would make the commission's speeches of concern, then we would write letters, then we would observe the situation very carefully. does it help? i dare to doubt it. and of course, i have to say that if you let viktor orbán blackmail you and now without any need, you pay out 10 billion euros, basically the biggest bribe ever paid with eu money, to viktor orbán minutes before the eu summit, then i'm already very worried about what this is sending out as a signal to someone like robert fico. he can only get the message out of it now: full can go on without stopping for a moment. it is a disaster for the rule of law in the european union. it is a disaster for slovakia, for hungary, for all of us here, when we deal with the rule of law in the european union in this way.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. the situation in slovakia is indeed dramatic and the commission has rightly described its concern. but i must say quite frankly: if i am witnessing this debate here tonight, at the same time, really at the same time, as the same commission, which is now very concerned about the rule of law there, is simultaneously releasing 10 billion euros of locked funds to hungary, then one must ask: what are we debating here at all? robert fico is a mini-orbán. and tonight the european commission sent him the loud and clear signal: it doesn't matter at the end. even if you apply the rule of law, even if you take all the measures, all you have to do is veto the eu commission and pressure and blackmail it and it will release you the money. the commission is therefore in danger of losing credibility in the matter of the rule of law. i would like to ask the commissioner if he can accept the amendments which have been tabled by the commission. i think you should step down. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the question does not concern the matter at all. firstly, i was there at the last alde council and i also visited slovakia on the ground. but the question is just showing that what's happening here is what's happening here from you, from the right, that you don't really want to deal with the fundamental question, that you don't want to deal with the fundamental questions where the rule of law, where corruption control still works in europe. and unfortunately, i have to say, these people out there who want to step on the rule of law and european values and then are so afraid to come up with whataboutism, these people have still got mrs von der leyen the greatest gift today. it's a shame!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, with edf, edirpa, asap, edip, edis frankly said i’m a bit tired of these acronyms trying to disguise the main problem: member states are simply not willing to move towards a truly european defence industry and market. the communication on edip in february surely won’t change that. but i haven’t given up on edis, the strategy, yet. here is what needs to be done. one, let’s pool national defence budgets to buy what we need to guarantee the security of european citizens and that of our closest allies, ukraine before all. we have to stop competing against each other on the market, because this only increases the profits of the defence industry and decreases the security of europeans. two, let’s work on common technical standards to ensure interoperability and economies of scale, and then subsidies and pooled funds should only go to those who produce and procure along these eu standards. finally, we need to talk about arms exports. currently, we have common rules but very diverging national export policies. this is a constant source of conflict between eu member states, and it hampers cooperation – and mr breton, don’t tell me it’s complicated. i have the solution in the drawer, i have it on my website, please just reach out. dear colleagues in the commission and in the council, if you want to really move from a national piecemeal to a truly european approach – pooling resources, increasing interoperability, prioritising the security of european citizens over the benefits of those of the arms industry – we are here to support.
author. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, belarusians were the first ones to stand up to putin by standing up to lukashenko, armed with nothing but courage and love for freedom. they marched in the streets distributing flowers and wide red flags. they were brutally crushed by lukashenko’s militias. today, 1500 belarusians are political prisoners: ales bialiatski, maria kalesnikava, siarhei tsikhanouski, viktar babaryka, maksim znak, pavel sevyarynets and many others have disappeared without a trace in belarusian dungeons. imagine yourself as palina sharenda-panasiuk, the first female political prisoner – a young woman, a belarusian patriot, a mother, and a loving wife. then special police forces break into your apartment, arrest you on charges such as being an extremist or contempt of the president – a title lukashenko mistakenly gave himself – and put you into a dungeon, depriving you of food, sleep, feminine hygiene, contact with family or information. palina also disappeared without a trace. until we will find and free her. free her, the 1500 other political prisoners, and all of belarus which is occupied by russia and lukashenko. meanwhile, paulina shows us the way with her last words. ‘belarus will definitely be free, but we have to fight hard for that’, she said. and those who sacrificed themselves for the sake of independence and democracy will be called heroes in the new belarus. zhyve belarus!
mrs president, during the round table on indigenous peoples and local communities held in parliament by our colleague michèle rivasi, the massai communities have warned us of their critical situation. they accuse the government of trying to drive them out of their ancestral lands for the benefit of elite tourism: trophy hunting. this is to transform their habitat into safari or private hunting areas. this is the basis of the conflict that is intended to force them to abandon these lands. the massais are being moved without their consent. these arbitrary movements distance them from social and health services, from access to water and pasture, and disrupt the education of children. these forced evictions cause a serious humanitarian crisis and have a negative impact on the lives of the masay people. the government's voluntary relocation programme violates their human rights rights, not to mention that it is prohibited under international law. i was to travel with michele rivasi and another colleague to tanzania, but twenty-four hours before we left, the tanzanian authorities decided to postpone our visit. i therefore urge the commission to send an independent observation mission to ensure that human rights are respected in initiatives financed by the european union, in particular the right to selfdetermination and the right to free and prior consent of the masay people.
author. – madam president, commissioner, colleagues, we’re discussing here a chinese policy that is of the making of the communist party, emperor xi jinping himself. it’s a policy directed against 1 million tibetan children and against the whole tibetan nations. a diligently planned policy organised with the utmost brutally bureaucratic efficiency, a comprehensive and unrelenting push for the forced assimilation of the tibetan young generation, pursued with the goal of depriving them of their cultural heritage, of cynically transforming them into willing colonial subjects of great han nationalism. this policy is a radical remake of oppressive so-called development policies, under the excuse of cultural enhancement that had been pursued by us, canadian and australian authorities against indigenous ethnic groups in their countries. the goal is the destruction of tibetan culture. even the name tibet is attacked. they tried to annihilate the name. china has made a lot of hay with criticising the history of european colonialism, but xi’s regime itself is a colonial regime, and that’s why we should stand in solidarity with the tibetan people against them.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, colleagues. commissioner, for over seven decades, the chinese communist party terrorises and oppresses tibet, from suppression of all fundamental freedoms to mass surveillance, forced labour or the cruel internment of a million children in so-called boarding schools. these acts only have one clear aim the destruction of tibetan identity and culture, and that of other ethnic and religious groups and minorities across mainland china. the european union must stand clearly with the oppressed, both in words and in deeds. those responsible must be held accountable, not least by imposing targeted sanctions for these crimes against humanity committed by the ccp. colleagues, let me be clear about one more thing. as the ccp continues to worsen its oppression at home, it also becomes increasingly aggressive abroad. these two processes work hand in hand. the ccp continues with this terror because it faces impunity. therefore, standing for the oppressed is both our moral duty and also a step towards protecting our own interests and safety.
madam president, what the chinese government is doing in tibet is long-standingly unacceptable, but what it is doing to tibetan youth, to tibetan children, is particularly disgusting and shameful. the operation of boarding schools designed to eradicate tibetan identity, culture and language, as well as family relations, is indeed an extremely abhorrent act of the chinese government. it's an unacceptable process of forced assimilation, and the fake news the chinese government is spreading about these boarding schools is really ridiculous. this is not something anyone who already knows the chinese government's uighur policy can believe. we know what the chinese government is doing to the uighurs, what the chinese government is doing to political prisoners and tibet in general. so the idea that we're going to believe some cheap fake news that the chinese government releases is really ridiculous. on the contrary, i think the commission should consider using all the possibilities after all, these are children and not just be polite to the chinese government.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, this parliament has held several urgency debates on the human rights situation in china during this mandate, and i do not think i need to remind anyone about the eu’s persistent and grave concerns in this area. as we speak here, the authorities in china’s tibetan areas – these areas include not only the tibet autonomous region, but also parts of the qinghai, sichuan, gansu and yunnan provinces – continue to severely restrict the exercise of fundamental freedoms. in particular, they are systematically restricting the freedom of religion or belief, freedom of peaceful assembly, freedom of expression, and freedom of association. we are aware of the reports about increasingly intrusive control and surveillance measures, including dna sampling. extrajudicial forms of political detention are widespread. political detainees, including buddhist monks, are held captive or sentenced to re-education in prison. there are allegations of labour transfer and coerced vocational training schemes. you saw reports about the demolition of buddhist monasteries and the implementation of regulations by the government of china affecting tibetan buddhism, including on the succession and recognition of lamas and leading buddhas. there are well-substantiated reports, including by un special rapporteurs, about the vast majority of tibetan pupils being forced to attend state-run boarding schools, far from their families and with rare opportunities to visit their homes. mandarin chinese is the language of education and the curriculum is nationally standardised. it is difficult to imagine any other effect of these policies than alienating tibetan pupils from their own heritage, and this can ultimately have long-lasting effects on the tibetan language and culture, which risk being erased. this also has a long-lasting effect on communities’ cohesion and families. the european union follows tibet’s ongoing human rights crisis very closely. the commission fully shares the concerns just expressed in this debate by honourable members and also by likeminded governments, the united nations and academic experts and civil society. and i can assure you that the eu will continue to speak against human rights violations occurring across china, including in tibet. we will continue to convey our concerns to the chinese leadership, just as eu leaders did last week in beijing during the 24th eu-china summit. let me specify that human rights issues are systematically raised in eu-china summits, and last week’s summit in beijing was no exception. during the summit, eu leaders reiterated the eu’s deep concerns about the human rights situation in china, notably systemic human rights violations in xinjiang and tibet, forced labour, treatment of human rights defenders and persons belonging to minorities, as well as continued erosion of fundamental freedoms in hong kong, where china should honour its prior commitments. individual cases were raised as well, so let me assure you that the eu will never compromise on human rights.
president-in-office of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the control of our common external border is an essential aspect to preserve the free movement of persons in the schengen area and to successfully manage the european union's immigration and asylum policy. this is precisely what parliament and the council took into account when they agreed to set up a border agency to help member states manage the union's external border. recognizing fully the important role of the european border and coast guard agency, the two co-legislators agreed jointly to increase their competences and tasks through mandate revisions in 2016 and 2019. the commission will soon publish an evaluation report on the frontex regulation, which will focus, inter alia, on the results achieved by this agency and the possible need to amend its mandate. we therefore believe that this debate and the resolution here adopted will contribute in a very timely manner to this assessment. i would like to highlight some aspects which are also highlighted in the motion for a resolution. frontex plays an important role in achieving an integrated management of truly european borders. following the publication of the commission communication on this subject, frontex published its technical and operational strategy and on this basis member states are now aligning their national strategies on integrated border management, where fundamental rights are a horizontal element. as regards the external dimension, frontex has gradually increased its return assistance in line with its revised mandate. we are also finalizing agreements on improved status with neighbouring countries to make full use of the revised mandate of frontex. frontex has made great progress in concluding agreements on improved status with the western balkan countries and those of the eastern neighbourhood, but it still has the capacity to improve in other regions. finally, the permanent body is being gradually deployed to assist in these operations. the council will take all these points into account when discussing and promoting this proposal.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, on behalf of commissioner johansson, i wish to thank you for your report on the fact-finding investigation of the libe committee’s frontex scrutiny working group. parliamentary oversight is of utmost importance in a democracy. it is frontex’s mission to support member states to manage the eu’s external borders by detecting and preventing irregular migration, by combating cross-border crime, by supporting the implementation of the eu return policy. to fulfil its mission, the co-legislators have made frontex the biggest eu agency, with a substantial budget, because europe needs a strong and well-functioning frontex. thousands of men and women do their duty as border guards every day with professionalism, integrity and commitment, and the report recognises the significant progress made in good governance and monitoring of fundamental rights compliance. to date, 39 out of 42 working group recommendations have already been implemented by frontex and i think this is commendable. and this is also thanks to the role played by the parliament and the frontex scrutiny working group. this is a shared task. the commission shares the parliament’s view that the fundamental rights officer should be consulted early, systematically and proactively in the process of developing and renewing operational plans, and this is now a standard practice. and fundamental rights monitors should have the same degree of access as all other frontex-deployed staff. but member states have the final word on allowing access to any frontex staff member, and this also applies to fundamental rights monitors. since 2021, the agency has also improved whistle-blower mechanism. a stronger frontex also means stronger oversight. the commission therefore strongly supports the new executive director’s priorities of accountability, transparency and respect of fundamental rights. the agency has implemented 11 out of 14 recommendations issued by the european ombudsman. the implementation of the remaining three recommendations is in progress. the parliament is always invited to attend the management board meetings, and the european parliament can also coordinate with national parliaments to exercise greater scrutiny over the agency and national border management institutions. the safe and effective management of the eu’s external borders must be firmly rooted in the respect of international and eu law. this includes compliance with our charter of fundamental rights and with the principle of non-refoulement. today, the fundamental rights office has around 70 personnel, including 46 monitors, which is six more than called for by the regulation. all participants in frontex operations have access to the serious incidents reporting mechanism and can report perceived violations of eu and international law. anyone who feels their rights have been violated in the context of a frontex joint operation can access the complaints mechanism. if deemed admissible, their case will be thoroughly investigated by the fundamental rights officer. finally, on the external dimension, all status agreements and working arrangements with third countries include fundamental rights safeguards, which are the basis for our cooperation. frontex is a consolidated pillar of our migration and security policies. it has gained importance in the last years and will grow more in the future. the commission is a member of the management board of frontex. from that position we are prioritising good governance, transparency, accountability and the agency’s respect for eu and international law, including respect for fundamental rights as enshrined in the eu charter of fundamental rights. we remain committed to ensuring that the agency is transparent and accountable.
on behalf of the ppe group. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. what we have been through with the agency for a long time: founded in 2005 with only 50 employees, first steps as a full-fledged agency, and the introduction of the standing corps. for the first time in the history of european integration, we have an operational agency operating under the eu flag. the need for this has become more evident in recent months, whether in the fight against locksmithing, in border security, in sensitive but important cooperation with third countries or in the further development of integrated border management. the agency is taking on crucial tasks in an increasingly difficult environment. has the work always been smooth? of course not! sometimes it has been about expectation management, sometimes it has been about political challenges that we have had to address and have to address. the frontex control panel was set up for this purpose. because with more tasks, more staff, more budget, of course, there's more responsibility. the work of the control group, but also the judgment of the court of justice today, makes clear: a factual discussion is as necessary as the agency's support for implementation. the changes to the agency in the last few months were important, and they were right. in the meantime, all the recommendations of the control panel have been implemented and improvements have even been made. as a control body, we have also made similar recommendations to the commission and the member states. one or the other is still open. so can we do more together? yes, we can! we have to. because the times have not been easier. the geopolitical situation has worsened. the need for support for member states has become greater than smaller. the european union has been and will continue to be a key player in the fight against terrorism. we must ensure that the officials who devote their time and work to a european cause have the best possible legal, organisational and operational conditions. we can get better here too. i would therefore like to close with the plea for greater courage in european internal politics. our agencies can do more, and we must set the framework and accompany them in their implementation.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. the commission has already taken a number of steps. i want to start with a positive one: i think it was important that we set up the frontex scrutiny working group here in the european parliament, that we worked to make concrete recommendations. i think it is also good that frontex has already started implementing a number of these recommendations. we are of course demanding that the other recommendations be implemented. it's also the case that i think with the new ceo, some things are moving in the right direction at frontex. is that enough? - no, i'm not. i think that if we look at several important questions in this context, for example the big mistake i believe the european union has made in recent years, we must simply say that many europeans do not know what is happening at the external borders. it is also the impression that frontex is actually there to prevent asylum applications. frontex cannot, however, prevent asylum applications at all. so we continue to pursue an illusion that more frontex at the external borders, more border protection would lead to fewer asylum applications being made. because it's an illusion, we don't use our border guards to enforce the law at the external borders, but we break the law, push back. i think, especially this week, and this is a bit of a sign, it's become clear once again that frontex has a number of tasks ahead of it and makes a lot of mistakes. because it's been revealed by the mirror and others that frontex is apparently working with a militia in libya that's close to the wagner group! then you can talk a lot about respecting human rights. there is much to be said about european values. but if we go this far, i think we will not only degrade refugees at the external borders, but also the european idea.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. two days ago, the climate summit ended. and there 's good news . for the first time, the obvious is mentioned in the final agreement, which is that we have to get out of the fossils. it's crazy that it took 30 years to admit it. there is a binding financing of the damage and loss fund, which has more or less crashed the climate summit in sharm el sheikh. and opec is panicking and writing a letter of intent to its member states. it's good that they get cold feet, because it's about their business model, which puts the global climate at risk. and team europe held together until the end. that was super important to get this to a good conclusion. but we must also deliver now: we must fully implement the green deal. the emissions trading, the efficiency directive, the renewable energy directive all this must be implemented. and we as parliament are also required to remind our member states and remind the commission to ask for this. and we need a mid-term goal for 2040, which is science-oriented. the european union must not only find beautiful words at climate summits, but also implement what science demands at home. we are also going to look at the commission's fingers as parliament.
mr president, we are facing another cop where the expectation of high ambitions fell far short of the commitments and targets reached. this was another cop of contrasts between the most developed and developing countries and of contradictions between the interests of some transnational powers and the interests of their peoples and states in view of their sovereign development. the creation of a loss and damage fund, like other instruments requiring substantial support for developing countries, started with limited resources. it is important that what remains to be defined does not translate into a lending instrument that adds more debt to countries. the solution to environmental problems cannot be found without considering at the same time the economic and social dimensions, under the guise of mitigating the impacts of climate change at the expense of even greater inequalities between peoples and states. this requires a break with the policies that have brought us here: regaining public control over strategic sectors such as energy; promoting local production and consumption; reducing production and consumption circuits; defending the right to food sovereignty; ensuring public control of water; rejecting the commodification of nature; adopting a normative approach to reducing emissions; promoting public transport; defending peace.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. cop 28 is over. it's time we evaluated it. i think we should do this with all the colleagues who took part in the committee in peace, and with commissioner hoekstra as well. as a diplomat, i say that cop 28 is a value in itself. it is good to talk regularly with the world about the goal of climate neutrality and increasingly about energy and technology. whether 250 german government officials will have to fly to dubai in times when the environmental footprint is supposed to play a role is on another page. ursula von der leyen highlighted the expansion of renewable energy and the increase in energy efficiency as important achievements. that's perfectly reasonable, of course, but not rocket science now. but of course, it is better than an artificial ban discussion, which has now also reached the international stage. why not take a more sophisticated approach and get all the decision makers to what they obviously care about most? let's work on introducing emissions trading globally, because it will certainly lead to reducing co2 emissions in the most cost-effective way. yeah, this is a thick board we're gonna have to drill. but it's not impossible, because some important players like china are already experimenting with it. we need a european john kerry, an international climate commissioner, who negotiates on a permanent basis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. 2023 was the hottest year in human history -- with floods, storms, fires everywhere, with high costs to humanity and to the economy. we're still on a 2.9-degree warming path, and professor schellnhuber told us that at 3 degrees, it means the end of human civilization. that has not changed at this climate conference. it's good that we're finally saying after 28 years that we need to get out of coal, oil and gas. but now, words must be followed by deeds. i negotiated the electricity market here until 5 a.m. this morning, and new fossil fuel subsidies were agreed for the dirtiest coal plants. that can't be the message. what needs to happen now is that we finally have a new nationally defined contribution minus 95 percent by 2040 at least. we must not have any more fossil lobbyists in the european union delegation and we need to end fossil subsidies, as the climate commissioner hoekstra promised us. so we could turn on the two-degree path. but there is still much work to be done and the commissioner is speaking with us.
mr president, i want to speak to you. how would the 70,000 climate conference participants have come to dubai without fossil fuels? i don't think i'd have been able to get on the truck. so it's good for the climate professionals too that no binding exit from fossil fuels has been decided and nuclear energy is seen as the solution. both are available at all times, both as primary energy sources and as demand is required, as opposed to electricity or so-called volatile renewables. moreover, depending on the atmospheric co2 content, over half of the anthropogenic co2 emissions from plants or oceans are absorbed. so even if you have the absurd idea that co2 is the sole driver of climate change, net zero does not mean zero human emissions. but to do so, it required at least basic scientific intelligence. i can't tell the majority.
member of the commission. – madam president, minister, honourable members, thank you for this debate. and as stated by our president, von der leyen, it is good news for the whole world that we now have a multilateral agreement to accelerate emission reductions towards net zero by 2050, with urgent action in this critical decade. the global stocktake set the path we need to follow globally. it is the central outcome of cop28, as it can now be used by countries to develop stronger climate action. the next two years will be critical. at cop29, governments must establish a new climate finance goal reflecting the scale and urgency of the climate challenge. and at cop30, they must come prepared with new, nationally determined contributions that are economy-wide, cover all greenhouse gases and are fully aligned with the 1.5°c temperature limit. we are ready, with the support of the european parliament, to continue showing eu leadership in tackling our planet’s biggest challenges.
president-in-office of the council. i would like to conclude by endorsing the commission's comments and reaffirming the commitment, as i understand it, of this parliament, the commission and of course the council to continue the international commitment through a sound multilateralism based on rules necessary to achieve satisfactory results in the fight against climate change. i would like to reiterate that much more global ambition is needed if we are to maintain the 1.5 per cent target of our reach. i am sure that the european union - all its institutions - will work hard with the other parties to ensure that this gap is closed as soon as possible.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
written. the cop28 climate summit, which at first seemed worrying, ended with a satisfactory outcome. the international community's understanding of the importance of fossil fuel disposal in combating climate change can be considered significant. the cop28 outcome can be seen as the first step towards the end of the fossil energy age. however, disappointingly, the cop28 climate agreement gave way too easily to wording and did not highlight the urgency of the matter strongly enough. the text was adopted using the term kehottaa. so we are urging countries to abandon fossil fuels instead of setting specific requirements. we should get rid of fossil fuels much faster, because we are already so close to a turning point where the phenomena of climate change are starting to feed on each other, further accelerating climate change. the commission has already established that the use of fossil fuels should be completely eliminated between 2030 and 2035. we need more ambitious and more binding international agreements to do this.
the next item is the debate on council and commission statements on ensuring the proper functioning of eu-ukraine solidarity lanes (2023/3034(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the solidarity corridors were created in response to russia's blockade of the black sea shipping corridor. the blockade disrupted the maritime transport of a large volume of goods and made it very difficult for ukraine to export its agricultural products. at the same time, it became necessary to find an alternative route to supply ukraine with material to support the fight against russia. although ukraine has returned to the so-called humanitarian corridor, it is still dangerous and expensive to use the black sea route. so it is clear that the solidarity corridors will continue to exist as long as the ukrainians continue to fight the russian invasion. the operation of the solidarity corridors is of the utmost importance to support the war effort of ukraine, as i have said, in response to the aggression of russia. the commission has set up a mechanism to support the operation of the solidarity corridors and a coordination platform for grain exports. the council closely monitors the functioning of the solidarity corridors and, at regular meetings of the icrc integrated political crisis response facility, takes stock of and studies the possibilities for improving these corridors. last year, the council also concluded, with parliament's approval, a temporary road transport agreement with ukraine to support the operation of the solidarity corridors, enabling ukrainian drivers and lorries to more easily access the european union road transport market. previously, ukrainian truck drivers were subject to a fee. they have now been granted temporary unlimited access to transport goods by road to and from ukraine. i understand that one of the reasons why we are debating the functioning of the solidarity corridors is that because of this agreement, in some member states at the forefront, there seems to be tension between local drivers and ukrainians. this is a serious situation which cannot continue and we welcome the recent agreement between the polish and ukrainian governments to address the concerns of polish truck drivers. we hope that this will lead to a rapid normalization of the situation on the polish-ukrainian border. under the road transport agreement, there is also a joint committee in which the ukrainian government and the commission can examine the problems of the implementation of the agreement, including the measures taken by each member state. i look forward to the contributions of your honourable members to this debate.
member of the commission. – madam president, minister, honourable members, i’m glad and i want to thank you for having invited the commission to update parliament on the functioning of eu-ukraine solidarity lanes. the eu-ukraine solidarity lanes action plan was launched in 2022, following russia’s blockade of ukraine’s black sea ports. this blockade had immediate consequences, in particular on food exports to the rest of the world. we needed to react quickly. we established reliable alternative routes to bring the grain out of ukraine via the eu by land, inland waterways and through eu ports. these are the solidarity lanes. they have delivered and continue to do so. between may 2022 and november 2023, they allowed ukraine to export nearly 112 million tonnes of goods, including over 48 million tonnes of grain, oilseeds and other related products, and to import around 40 million tonnes of goods it needs, from military to humanitarian aid through fuel and other indispensable products. when it comes to grain exports from ukraine, clearly part of these exports are destined for the eu market. we need to facilitate the transfer of this grain to import-dependent member states, such as spain and others, while avoiding a situation where the grain remains where it is not needed. we are also monitoring other imports from ukraine, in particular sugar, poultry and eggs, where we observe sharply increased imports. ukraine, on its side has adopted an action plan, as agreed at the end of the preventive measures in september. this includes government licenses for exports of four products – wheat, corn, rapeseed and sunflower seeds – to neighbouring eu states. in this context, the commission is in regular contact with the hungarian, polish and slovakian authorities, and we have called on these three countries to lift their unilateral bans. our priority now is to work constructively with all parties to ensure that the action plan is effectively implemented. but while eu-ukraine trade constitutes a main source of revenue for ukraine, it also substantially benefits eu companies. since they were set up, the total value of trade via the solidarity lanes is estimated at around eur 127 billion, with around eur 44 billion for ukrainian exports and over eur 83 billion for ukrainian imports. the recent resumption of trade through the black sea is a very positive development in terms of facilitating ukrainian exports. however, the commission’s commitment to strengthening the eu-ukraine solidarity lanes and generally improving eu-ukraine and eu-moldova connectivity is stronger than ever. the war, as well as ukraine’s and moldova’s european path, means one thing for transport: the solidarity lanes are here to stay. beyond the emergency phase, our action in the framework of the solidarity lanes represents the groundwork for a fully connected, interoperable and sustainable trans-european network from portugal to ukraine, from finland to moldova. this is why the commission, together with the member states, the ukrainian and the moldovan authorities, continue with their efforts to strengthen the solidarity lanes and support ukraine. the commission is focused on increasing capacity and reducing costs by eliminating unnecessary checks and streamlining processes where needed, upgrading infrastructure over the short, medium and long term, and enhancing the potential of these routes. investment in infrastructure and equipment remains crucial. this is particularly important in our five member states bordering ukraine, where we still have work to do on infrastructure and procedures. against this backdrop, the commission is prioritising new connectivity infrastructure between ukraine and moldova and their eu neighbours. in november 2022, the commission, european investment bank, european bank for reconstruction and development, and world bank pledged to invest eur 1 billion in this solidarity lanes. additionally, eur 890 million are available from different funding streams, including the connecting europe facility (cef) and the eu’s cohesion policy, to improve the connectivity to ukraine on the member states’ territory. most of the medium- to long-term deliverables have been brought in through cef as the eu’s main instrument to implement the trans-european transport network and ensure seamless cross-border connectivity within the eu and with its neighbours. most recently, the commission allocated to eur 150 million for infrastructure projects at main ten-t rail and road border crossing points between ukraine, moldova and the eu. six projects are being implemented with ukraine and three with moldova, focusing on improving border-crossing capacity and expanding eu standard rail gauge into ukraine in order to ease the interoperability between eu and ua networks. this is the first time that ukraine and moldova have received this kind of funding, and the projects are an excellent example of cross-border cooperation. we are pleased to see strong cooperation and clear commitment of all frontline member states. these efforts have a direct impact on ukraine’s ability to face adversity, and they pave the way for further integration of ukraine and moldova into the eu’s internal market.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, madam commissioner, council representatives, dear colleagues, the front line in the east and south of ukraine stretch over 1200 kilometres. over the last two years, ukraine’s western borders have been closed for 38 days. how it is possible that truckers from neighbouring eu countries have declared economic war on ukraine? this is a knife in ukraine’s back. transport policy of the european union is a shared competence of the union. why did it take a month and a half for the commission to react? have the commission representatives personally visited blocked border crossings? what could they have said to the ukrainian truckers waiting in 30 kilometre queues and suffering the hardships of winter? selfies of european commission representatives in front of long queues of lorries would be a right step towards long overdue solutions. ukraine’s extreme dependence on foreign aid and the strategic importance of military and humanitarian supplies raise questions about russia’s possible indirect involvement and influence. i call for immediate actions.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, almost two years ago we kept the trade routes with ukraine open to diminish global hunger. we called them solidarity lanes. and we also said that we would stand by ukraine ‘with all it takes’. and we added ‘for as long as it takes’. but how long is this? are we living up to the name of the roads that are blocked in hungary, in poland and slovakia? is kicking the country, which is bleeding for our security, what counts for european solidarity? is allowing orban and his wannabe from slovakia to take ukraine and the eu hostage, solidarity? who, but the poles, should know what solidarity means? it was their solidarność that started the end of communism. we need the same solidarity now to end another evil empire. while we betray solidarity, betray ukraine and betray ourselves, russia wins. all it takes for ukraine’s victory is our unwavering support. stop the blockade and practice what we preach.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commissioner has been asked to take the initiative to address the situation. the agreement with ukraine has its justification. the unblocking of exports, including grain, was beneficial to both sides and facilitating the supply of arms and humanitarian aid was an important element in supporting ukraine's war effort. however, we know that not all elements of this agreement are functioning properly. carriers from poland, but also from hungary, slovakia and romania complain of discrimination by the ukrainian authorities. there is also a reasonable suspicion that carriers from ukraine are operating illegally on the internal market without being subject to the restrictive mobility package. it's an unfair competition. we expect the european commission to hear the carriers' complaints and to analyse in detail the impact of this agreement on the european transport sector before it is extended for another year. if changes are necessary, such as the reintroduction of authorisations or additional controls, they should be made. if we don't respect our companies ourselves, ukraine won't do it any more.
madam president, i think we should calm down a little and not go to court when we don't know what's really going on. we can't really sacrifice ourselves completely for ukraine. we should think a little bit about our citizens first. and you know, east of ukraine, it's the schengen border, and now our short-sighted bombing decisions have greatly jeopardized those borders and also jeopardized free movement within the european union. that is why we have some internal schengen borders in place today. but i invite you, colleagues who have a taste, because you like to talk about what's happening in the east. i am going to the ukrainian border at the end of the week, i am going to look at the trucking strike in slovakia and i would very much like to inform the european parliament then, perhaps, how this is all going on, because i think these people are a little bit right. the pressure on carriers in the eastern part of the european union is enormous. but not on them. it's pressure on people living in the east of the eu. these are small towns. slovakia has a 97 km border with ukraine. we have one border crossing. poland has closed border crossings and all these trucks, that's really huge numbers, are passing through the small villages in eastern slovakia where these people live. it's a huge strain on the road infrastructure, on the lives of these people, on their safety. and this is really what we should be aware of, so come with me quietly at the end of the week. i invite you very much.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr minister, colleagues and colleagues, i speak to you as a representative of the citizens, but also as a representative of farmers who feel threatened. at the same time, i want to make it clear that we stand behind ukraine's support so far and will support ukraine for as long as it is needed. the concept of the solidarity corridor is based on the idea of creating new transport links, corridors between the ukrainian borders and european union ports, from which ukrainian grain is to be shipped further to asia and africa. the reality is that ukrainian grain instead ends up in warehouses and reduces the price of domestic grain. but it is certainly not for the benefit of ukrainian farmers or european farmers. while the spring protests preceded the commission's decision to authorise an embargo on imports of ukrainian crops, which benefited five eu countries, the subsequent autumn protests followed the lifting of the embargo by the commission in september. the three countries poland, slovakia and hungary have decided to continue the embargo unilaterally, but the problem with ukrainian grain imports remains. therefore, commissioner, minister, new measures must be considered. consider whether this should mean better registration, control of how much food and products are coming into the eu, and also consider further better and more effective aid for export and provision of out-of-eu warehouses for ukraine.
mr president, i want to speak to you. the corridors of solidarity are of course right, they are important and vital for ukraine's survival. there's no question that we need them, and that was a real investment we made there, or several investments we're making. however, we must also be careful not to overload our domestic markets. we must be careful not to put our farmers in this situation because the price pressure is so high that the goods do not arrive where they belong. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. instead, they are landing on european markets because of the fast money. i understand the farmers here who say that we simply cannot compete financially there because of the fact that we produce much more expensive. i would like to say that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and to the council, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. many of the goods are also loaded with mercury, with old metal and, and, and. so we simply have to create more verification corridors and controls here so that what comes to europe is also equally safe for people and so what is destined for africa is also going to arrive there and protect our farmers.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to comment on a matter of order: the presidency considers it inappropriate that mr adrián vázquez, who has asked this question, should not be present at this debate today. the council, however, answers the question put by mrs melchior in this case. the european union's relations with third parties are of strategic importance. this is true in all sectors, including civil law. international relations in the field of civil law are developed through multilateral international instruments. the hague conference on private international law is the main forum for negotiating and concluding multilateral international agreements with many third countries. in establishing relations with third countries, we must of course follow the procedures laid down in the treaties. as mrs melchior pointed out in her question, article 218 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union lays down the procedures for holding negotiations with third countries and international organisations. any decision which the council may take within the framework laid down in article 218 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union shall be based on a proposal from the commission. this is the case, for example, with the accession of third countries to the hague convention, and we have done so in the case of the 1980 hague convention on the abduction of minors, on which the commission has tabled proposals for council decisions and the council has consulted parliament as provided for in the treaty. as you know, the hague convention has an active acceptance mechanism, and this means that the european union must expressly indicate that it accepts the accession of a particular third country in order for us to enter into conventional relations with that state. the question, however, mrs melchior, who is now leaving her seat, is focused on the hague conventions with a non-objection procedure, a kind of tacit procedure. in the case of such agreements, it is sufficient not to respond within a given period to accept the accession of a third country to an agreement and to enter into conventional relations with that country. contrary to the commission's practice in the framework of agreements with active acceptance mechanisms, the commission has not so far submitted proposals for council decisions in the case of tacit procedures. the tacit procedure does not preclude the union from adopting a position on whether to enter into conventional relations with the third country concerned. this procedure is simply a way of getting the parties' position. article 218 shall apply in accordance with the commission's power of initiative. and here i want to finally answer the question at hand. if the commission submits a proposal for a decision to the council, the council shall examine it and follow the procedure laid down in article 218. the agreement on areas covered by the ordinary legislative procedure would need the approval of this parliament. finally, mr president, if i may have a moment, as this is my last debate as president-in-office of the council, i would like to say that it has been an honour to be involved in the debates with the european parliament, both in this house and before the conference of presidents and before the committees. i would also like to express my deep gratitude for the cooperation of parliament with the spanish presidency of the council at all levels and, in particular, for the work to be done to approve tripartite dialogues. yesterday and this morning, new agreements were reached. that's why, finally, thank you very much to all your honour.
member of the commission. – mr president, minister, dear members, this issue has been raised in the context of the accession of third states to several conventions developed in the context of the hague conference on private international law, an intergovernmental organisation that works for the progressive unification of eu law. since 2007, the eu is a full member of this organisation along with all its member states. accession to hague conventions is regulated in three different ways depending on the convention. in the first case, there is an open procedure, meaning all countries are free to accede to the convention without the need for the other contracting parties to accept them or the possibility to raise an objection. treaty relationships between the acceding third state and the existing contracting parties are established automatically. for those types of conventions, such as the 2005 choice of court convention, no eu decision needs to be or can be adopted, because the acceptance of all future acceding countries is already inherent in the convention. in the second case, an explicit acceptance procedure is provided. if a party does not accept the accession, then the convention will not have an effect in the bilateral relationship between the party and the acceding state. this means treaty relationships between the exceeding third state and an existing contracting party are only established if that contracting party adopts a decision on acceptance. for conventions with this type of mechanism, such as the 1980 child abduction convention, the acceptance decision by the eu is taken on the basis of article 218 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. finally, the third and last category provides for the automatic establishment of treaty relationships between the contracting parties and an exceeding third state in principle. but it leaves a possibility for the existing contracting parties to exceptionally prevent that from happening by lodging an objection to the accession within a specific period, which is usually. between 6 to 12 months. this is the type of convention, such as the judgments convention, which i understand your oral question is focusing on. the current practice is that in relation to such hague conventions with a no objection procedure, the eu only adopts a formal position in case it wants to object to an accession, after a thorough assessment of the situation of the new acceding party. this assessment aims at verifying whether or not it is in a position to fulfil its obligations under the convention. this practice is based on the principle of favour towards new accessions by other contracting parties and only envisages an objection procedure as an exception, in line with the objectives of the convention. the commission therefore takes the view that, under the current practice, formal decisions under article 218 are required only where the eu intends to object to the establishment of such treaty relations. this approach is in line with the need to implement the eu obligation under international law in good faith. the commission is committed to informing the parliament, as well as the council, and to take their views into account in full compliance with the treaties and, notably, the duty of sincere cooperation. this is why, when deciding whether to propose an objection decision, we committed to consistently informing the parliament of each intending intended accession of a third country to the judgments convention, taking due account of the views expressed. if, following discussions in the council and in the parliament, it appears that there is no reason to object to the accession of the third state, the commission, under the current practice, does not adopt a formal position. we have delivered on this commitment with the written assessment on ukraine, certification of the judgments convention, and the outcome was a consensus in favour of no objection, also confirmed by the parliament in a debate last june on the matter. we will share the commission’s assessment also regarding future accessions to the judgments convention and to other hague conventions with no objection mechanisms in the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by saying that i regret that the authors of these questions are not present. i don't think it's too respectful of the council or the commissioner. this issue is of a highly legal nature but also has practical implications. it is a question of our interinstitutional relations with the union and, to simplify it, of whether the position of the european parliament will be respected in the light of the wording of the treaties. i think that in practice it has proved itself when the european union approaches international treaties as an entity of international law. the overwhelming majority of my colleagues undoubtedly regard the process of concluding international treaties with the european union as another positive instrument of the integration process. while international law is not concerned with the process by which the eu decides to become a party to international treaties, we must undoubtedly be concerned. we have the categories of international treaties mentioned by the commissioner that allow third countries to accede to the treaty by means of a clause of silent consent or not to object to such a procedure. the hague convention on private international law, as already mentioned. we, the members of the european parliament, must defend the rights of this chamber, the competence and competence of the european parliament to cooperate even in such a special procedure. since the eu respects the rule of law, the commission and the council should set an example and respect the principle of the division of powers between the institutions of the european union and in the decision-making area, in relation to the european parliament, in relation to these international treaties. i would therefore like to know how the commission and the council intend to ensure that this division of powers is respected even in the situations of decisions on accession to those international treaties to which the european union is a party.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, allow me to make a remark on the political dimension of the legal discussion that we are having. indeed, commissioner, the accession of ukraine did not raise any political debates or controversies this year. but we can imagine in the future that other countries can be very controversial because they lack respect for due process, for human rights, for the rule of law. and, you know, more than 90 countries are members of this hague convention on private international law and could decide to join the judgment convention, and that includes some very controversial states, such as russia, for instance, who are signatories. so, if the eu did not object to establishing relations with these countries, we would open our legal order to the recognition and enforcement of judgments that do not guarantee the respect for our rights and values. imagine, for instance, that a country systematically disregards women’s procedural rights in court. that would be unacceptable for us to agree to. and that is why we request that the commission formally initiates a procedure for us to take a position on whether to table an objection or not.
mr president, following the recent judgment just yesterday, i would like to move the following oral amendment on behalf of the epp group, changing the last sentence of recital g as follows: ‘whereas for legal actions in relation to alleged pushbacks have been brought against frontex before the general court of the eu, of which two were ruled inadmissible and two are pending.’
mr president, following the recent judgment i would like to add a new sentence after recital g, recital ga (new): ‘whereas on 13 december the general court dismissed another action brought against the agency as manifestly lacking any foundation in law’.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. i think it's a good thing to want to improve, but i think we're putting the wrong emphasis on this again. instead of subsidiarity so less eu there is again more eu. or you could say very cruelly: the little ones you hang, and the big ones you let go. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear indication of the importance of this report. why don't you do that? ladies and gentlemen, we do not need any more instruments to overthrow the sovereignty of the member states. we need more members of parliament, like our late colleague michèle rivasi, who want to protect the eu's financial interests. and we need more member states that are committed to their own people and want to protect them from an ever more comprehensive eu.
