i'm the reporter. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. thank you so much. ladies and gentlemen, and the commission, here we are. what do you want? that the circular economy will become the formula for all waste management in the eu? that we use international trade as a lever for environmentally sound waste management worldwide? that the paper jungle is replaced by digitisation, which frees up resources for more innovation in the sector? that we should take action against environmentally harmful waste management, whether within or outside the eu, immediately? that we only send waste to non-oecd countries when we know they can and want to do the job? that we are creating better conditions for research and innovation in waste technologies? that we consistently oppose the waste crime which is now easier to commit than it is to avoid speeding tickets on the german motorways? and that we're looking closely at the challenge of exporting plastic waste, so that we're really pushing the development of sustainable, circular use of plastic in ways that the rest of the world can live off of? what would you like? no, you do not have to choose, because you can have it all with the proposal which the european parliament is now putting forward as our proposal for the revision of the waste shipment regulation. the results have been achieved through a negotiation that has been characterised by respect for the technical complexity of the older and very linearly oriented law, which needed to be updated and adapted to today's climate reality. all political negotiators deserve our thanks for their cooperation, because we have certainly not been in agreement all along. but instead of fighting blindly, we have opened our eyes to the actual possibilities and mechanisms of the waste sector and the law that underlies the framework of being an open economy in trade with the rest of the world. we have thus seen the possibilities for finding balanced and pragmatic solutions, which are both ambitious and realistic and full of professionally sound arguments, which give us a secure and confident starting point for the negotiations with the council. we have received a rather good proposal from the commission, but we want more than that. and on that basis, we have created a broad and coherent set of amendments that address all the actors needed to make waste transport a sustainable part of the circular economy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of recycled materials, such as plastic bottles, and to make them more environmentally friendly. because now that we know that the eu's waste exports have only increased over the last few years, by as much as 75% between 2004 and 2020, and that our waste is in many places floating around on beaches and landfills far away from europe, there is no excuse for not doing anything about it. a significant proportion of that waste is plastic. and when we work in other proposals that are on the table right now in our various committees here in parliament to reduce our consumption of unnecessary plastic, it is only natural that we also address our exports of this. but it's also been a prerequisite for me that it happens in a way that is realistic and supports innovation and the development of business models that are really innovative and develop business models that are really sustainable and circular in their handling of plastics. it is not simply a matter of moving a problem from one place to another, but of turning a problem into a resource here in the eu and, in the long term, throughout the world. i am personally very proud and grateful for that part of our many proposals. with these opening words i look forward to the debate and hope in particular to hear the commission welcome our amendments and constructively approach the forthcoming trilogue negotiations. thank you, sir.
i'm the reporter. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. thank you so much. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. thank you very much in particular for a very, very fruitful debate. we have been all over the place and it looks as if we will hopefully see tomorrow that we get a very, very large majority behind the compromises. so we are very strongly opposed to the council in our debate, which will hopefully also begin very soon. i share the commissioner's ambition that we should start the trilogue negotiations very soon. this has been said by several colleagues, and it is worth emphasizing again as a final comment, that we are not getting a circular economy going. nor will we be able to engage in a better and more sustainable way with our nature and our consumption unless we start with a circular economy in our waste management. and that requires us to create an internal market for waste. and we shall achieve this with the compromise proposals which we have made even better with the commission's already very good proposals. then there are those who wonder whether we can retain some specific materials through this law, so that we can retain and have green steel - that is the example - in the future. it is important to note that the little a-b-c of the supply-demand relationship never points to the fact that by closing a market, one obtains both higher quality and lower price. no, we must lean into international trade and make sure that steel products are naturally processed where they are both best and cheapest. this is ultimately what will be in the best european interest. and i have to comment on this; then commissioner sinkevičius says that you are in agreement with virtually everything we propose, of course it must be within the legal framework, but you will probably need more money anyway. i would ask you not to use it as an argument at this stage that the ambitions we have for not doing what grace o'sullivan of the left so wisely said, namely that we are neglecting timely care and acting while we can, while it is the cheapest, for the sole reason that the commission wants more money. the price of doing nothing is much, much higher than a discussion right now about whether the commission needs more money through the mff. we have a common task here. let's lift it up and then make sure that the next generation can look at us and say we did the right thing, the timely thing and the sensible thing.
mr prime minister. the swedish eu presidency faces many challenges. war, energy crisis, climate conflict and a grotesque, growing economic inequality here in europe too. they're all important. but today i want to focus on something that is all too often overlooked, namely, working conditions for most people. your presidency is to negotiate both the platform directive and the new eu rules on asbestos. in both cases it is important that the protection of employees is at the centre. the protection of the rights of platform workers over the protection of the profits of the platform giants, and not least the protection of the lives and health of millions of eu citizens from the deadly asbestos. i hope that the swedish presidency of the european union will be involved in this. let's not let short-term profit cost us all more in the long run. ulf kristersson, it's time to get into work clothes for most people.
rapporteur. – mr president, colleagues, according to rule 59 of the rules of procedure, i therefore now request referral back to the committee to enter interinstitutional negotiations. thank you so much.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, presidency, commissioner, colleagues, thank you all for being here. this is an extremely important debate about protecting and listening to whistleblowers, as well as the transparency and accountability of this institution and other democratic institutions across europe. for the european parliament, we have been under specific scrutiny since the arrests by belgian authorities before christmas. the revelations of the uber files are shocking and completely unacceptable, purposely flouting existing laws and regulation, obstructing police and regulatory investigations. most appalling were the reports that potential violence against drivers could be exploited. but also remember that the revelations we are discussing here, they document a period before and during 2017. our work on the proposal of platform workers began in 2020. any illegal and illicit behaviour should be sanctioned, both at the eu and member state level. uber must ensure that such activity can never be allowed to happen again. as legislators, and national as well as local authorities, we also have a responsibility to be critical of the lobbyists and companies we meet. innovation and disruption should happen with respect for the society we live in, but without excessive protection of vested interests. we must protect the whistle-blowers who so often reveal information crucial to the public interest at a professional and personal cost to themselves. the eu whistleblower directive must be implemented by the member states that have not yet transposed it. i am proud that my political group led the parliamentary work on platforms in the brunet report, which gathered a huge majority for a balanced proposal. because it is important that we do not throw out the baby with the bathwater here. uber is one platform, and platforms are not homogenous. we need to create laws for all kinds of sizes of platforms. digital platforms are important for innovation, both for work and for commerce. we must ensure improvement of working conditions of people performing platform work while making sure that flexible working arrangements and genuine self-employment can continue.
blue-card speech. – (start of speech off mike) ... i’m not quite sure if the translation was misconstruing things. the resolution on search and rescue in the mediterranean that we voted on in 2019 unfortunately failed to be adopted by parliament, as far as i remember, by only two votes. we’ve seen member states not acting, and now having colleagues in this chamber claiming that we must all follow the law seems hypocritical when the same member states are not acting to actually save lives and create legal pathways. the resolution that you mentioned in your speech was promoting cooperation with the member states. was this adopted, or was it unfortunately not adopted by this house?
blue-card speech. – the dear colleague claimed that the australian model is functioning and is a success. could you please provide proof for this? and also, if sweden had applied the australian model during the second world war, my father would probably have been put on an island in øresund and i would not have been here today. would that have been a success?
mr president, thank you for giving me the floor again. i would have wished that the member states and the council presidency were here this evening. i would wish that they had listened to commissioner johansson in her introduction because there we have all of the solution. but the member states are not here, and for more than a decade they have not acted. today, we have listened to colleagues holding up legislation as a shield and defending the criminalisation of humanitarian assistance. we need to save lives at sea. it is an international obligation and it is a tradition for seamen at sea. barry andrews underlined that rescue at sea does not pull people out to sea. what pushes people out to sea is a lack of legal pathways. we must act now and agree on this migration package so that we can stop people dying in the mediterranean. and we must not criminalise the humanitarian organisations that are filling the gaps that the member states are leaving open.
madam president, let us stand in solidarity with ukraine, the brave train and truck drivers, the nurses, the municipal workers, the miners, the farmers. they keep the country running, often unnoticed and poorly paid, and they bleed and die because of putin’s war of aggression. their courage and that of civil society and trade unions is amazing. they need our help now. they will also need our help once the bullets stop flying and the aggressor withdraws. dear commissioner, one thing the summit can do, one thing the summit should do, is to make sure that ukraine is not weighted down by having to repay huge amounts to its creditors the moment the hostilities end. this will give ukraine the possibility to take care of its population, to protect those who bore the cost of the war, to build a fair future.
madam president, there is no words for the suffering the people of türkiye and syria are living through right now. so many have lost their lives, so many have lost their homes, so many have lost their loved ones; they need our support and solidarity. what is the most heartbreaking to me is that not everyone is getting the help they need. both erdoğan and assad are exploiting this crisis. right now, the assad regime is blocking humanitarian aid from reaching the kurdish quarter of aleppo, where around 70 % of the buildings have collapsed. right now, erdoğan is preventing humanitarian aid from reaching the liberated kurdish area of northern syria. the eu needs to speak up against the inacceptable actions of erdoğan and assad. the eu must make sure that the aid reaches everyone in need without discrimination.
mr president, does the eu need an independent ethics body? yes, of course it does. in fact, we should ask ourselves why we don’t already have one, especially given the scandals we have seen, even before qatar— and moroccogate. given the size and the regulatory power of the eu, it is clear that we do need an entity that can advise, monitor and act on potential misuse, fraud and corruption facing us now and in future. but what does such an entity need in order to actually make a difference? it needs three clear things. first, it needs to be truly independent. it cannot bow to pressure from, for instance, the european commission or eu countries. second, it needs to have real power for investigations and sufficient resources to carry them out. it should not have to ask permission to use them. and third, it needs to ensure that implementation actually happens and that sanctions are applied. rules that are not enforced are no good. that is what we have been calling for, from the left, for a long time, as have many others. sadly, the right and their friends have managed to avoid this. now, commissioner, there is no more time for bad excuses. now it is time for action.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals. it was clear from yesterday's debate on the cars of the future that the supply challenges for raw materials for batteries are grossly underestimated in the eu. the debate is somewhat similar to the logic of those who mistakenly believe that more taxes, more loans, more regulations and more state aid are the way to achieve climate goals without harming our competitiveness. the window of opportunity for the most irresponsible treatment of europe's future is becoming ever wider. by 2040, we're going to need 25 times more graphite than we did in 2020, and up to 42 times more lithium. the eu currently uses around 25% of all geological raw materials globally, but produces only 3% of them. we're becoming a commodity junkie with credit from dubious suppliers far away. it just doesn't work. we need to understand that metals are becoming more important than oil and gas ever were. but raw materials don't just rain down from the sky for free. they have to start from the ground up - including our own in the eu - into the internal market, into production, and then they have to go around and around in the circular economy. - what?
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner and the minister for their work. i am actually optimistic when i listen to the debate here tonight because it seems that most of the colleagues here have become aware that we have been sleeping in class. we have trusted blindly in globalisation and have ended up dependent on foreign powers that do not share our values. we gave russia control of a large part of our natural gas supply. it had fatal consequences, creating the biggest energy crisis since the 1970s. china is heavily invested in the processing of critical raw materials. 90% of the rare earths and 60% of lithium are processed by china today. we have to change that and we have to move into the new globalisation 2.0, where we don't have to be protectionist, but at the same time we have to be realistic about not just leaving this to the free market, that we become dependent on a foreign power that doesn't share our values at all. and that is why we must start making strategic trade agreements with the countries we can rely on, so that we spread out our imports of raw materials and thus become less dependent on those on whom we do not want to be dependent.
the commission. i would like to thank the president-in-office. thulani maseko fought for democracy and for the right to think, speak and write freely. he did so in one of the world's last absolute monarchies, eswatini. here, the king does not allow freedom. the european union is not a party to the conflict. this is where thulani maseko was murdered in front of his family. no one should be killed for wanting democracy. this cold-blooded murder needs to be buried and investigated. we demand a free and independent international investigation. an inquiry should be carried out by the un and the african commission on human and peoples' rights. the un declaration of human rights clearly states that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. and it is time that human rights also belong to the citizens of eswatini.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is a very, very serious situation we are facing at the moment. the supply of fertilisers has been greatly affected by the situation in ukraine. fertilizer prices have gone up dramatically, we've seen that. this is a serious situation for our farmers. this is a serious food security situation. that's why this decision is so important. we need to produce fertilizer to get food. that's as simple as it gets. the point is that if we have no fertilizer, we could run into a problem of the world starving for it. we need to focus on solving the problem both in the short term and in the long term. firstly, in the short term it is quite important that we have enough fertiliser, and we can do that by reducing the import duty on fertiliser that can be brought into europe. secondly, it is vital that we have independent fertiliser production in the eu. we do this by having competitive energy prices, and it is absolutely, absolutely necessary that we have competitive energy prices, because otherwise we will not have the fertiliser production in the eu. we simply have to become independent of other countries in this area. we're supposed to be masters of our own house. and it is necessary if we are to guarantee food security. not just in the eu, but in the third world as well.
i have to say, madam president, it's been said so many times. the energy we don't use is the best for the climate and for our wallets and for our security. because with the inclusion of energy policy in security and major policy after russia's hostile invasion of ukraine, we have to take it very seriously. that is why it makes perfect sense for the eu's building directive to be brought into play. we need it if energy efficiency is to deliver the co2 reductions needed to meet the agreed climate targets by 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050. so, of course, the buildings have to contribute to the green transition. but there is an annoying lack of clarity about what types of housing are actually to be provided and how. and there is irritation among some people at the level of detail in the proposal for a directive, which in its place can also look as if we here in brussels do not really believe that the national states can figure out the task themselves. it's a mess, you know. especially if the critics are right that these are some of the reasons why we would not be able to meet the climate targets. it would be a tragedy, actually. it's been hard to find consensus in this house. the negotiations have been very tough and the vote will show whether the experience of disorder will be even greater than the content of the broad, ambitious and yet realistic compromise that has been negotiated. this could be a very bad start to the negotiations with the council which are now about to begin. we will soon be able to count on one hand the years until 2030, when we will have to remove at least 55% of all co2 in europe's atmosphere. let us now get down to business and we will do so by voting in favour of the political agreement negotiated by the committee on industry and energy and the additional proposals on the table which can only make this better. now let's focus on that and get started.
madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, firstly, i’d like to thank the rapporteur and shadows for their diligent work on this complex and multifaceted file. the role of data in our lives is growing, from industrial processes to wearable devices. data provides us with valuable insights needed to fight climate change, diagnose diseases, as well as to produce food and goods more sustainably. the data act is essential in unlocking the potential of data and bringing down the many barriers that we face today. we have succeeded in achieving clearer boundaries between personal and non-personal data; a balanced deal on trade secrets that would enable more data sharing whilst protecting intellectual property rights. i am particularly satisfied that we’ve provided the following solutions to current problems. today, when we buy and use connected devices, the data generated is often stored in the cloud, and we can only access our data if we’re willing to give away personal information or to pay extra. the data act puts citizens and businesses in control of their data, with free and unhindered access for consumers and a guaranteed fair price for companies no matter their size. today, innovative services are never developed due to barriers in accessing data from other manufacturers. the data act ends hoarding of data, enabling developers to build the services that citizens and consumers want. the covid pandemic revealed that governments struggle to obtain data they need in emergencies. we have ensured that governments can respond quickly without overstepping and putting citizens’ privacy at risk. also, because manufacturers regularly shut down related services prematurely, rendering smart devices useless before their physical end of life, i do miss one thing from our juri opinion: where we require transparency on how long a smart device will remain smart or even usable, how long related services and software updates will be provided, and if a connected device can work offline. this information is vital to empower citizens to make sustainable choices when they buy connected devices, and i hope to see it in the final legislation. i wish the rapporteur and her team all the best in the upcoming trilogue negotiations.
blue-card speech. – thank you very much, colleague, for accepting the blue—card. it was quite a speech you made, with quite some claims, saying that the data act will allow for mass surveillance of citizens. the data act will actually allow citizens and businesses to have control over their own data. so how is increased control for citizens of their data, for their use that they choose, a sign of more surveillance, and for allowing your claim of europe being an open air prison camp?
madam president, i would like to thank my colleagues and the commissioner for a lovely and enlightening debate. our economic times are changing. interest rates are at a record high, and that means that there is no more easy money, including for our start—ups. the svb made some very risky choices during the pandemic and when interest rates were low. they also made a risky choice by concentrating on the tech sector. however, these management choices by the svb have provided a collapse of the bank because they did not, in the us, have the same financial regulation that we do in the eu. but where does this lead our start—up sector? because many start—ups in the us sought to get money from the svb because they were specialised in this. they were willing to lend to the start—ups and they had services that the start—ups needed. how do we make sure that we provide the money for our start—ups that they need in europe? we have the financial regulation for stability, but we also need the money for start—ups in europe so that they stay here and that they can scale up.
blue-card speech. – this is a repetitive debate. the last time we had it in this very chamber, we were discussing whether rescuing lives at sea encourages people to travel and seek refuge in europe. barry andrews, my colleague from renew, said that there is evidence that this is not the case. do you have evidence for your claim that you just made that rescue—at—sea encourages people to travel across the mediterranean?
mr president, in the recent shipwreck, the italian authorities refused to help and the responsible libyan authorities did not help, despite having received both patrol boats and millions of euros from the european community. this is why we need to revoke the libyan search and rescue area and we need to have eu state-led search and rescue. we cannot delegate the responsibility of refugees at the eu borders to other states. we need to make sure that we have legal pathways both for refugees and for migrants to the eu. this is the only solution to stop people from dying at the european borders. our member states need to take the responsibility for helping refugees at the borders of the eu. we need to have proper partnerships with trustworthy countries so that we can receive migrants and refugees properly and dignified and so that we can also send back the migrants who tried to come to europe under the guise of being refugees.
blue-card speech. – i think your intervention, dear colleague, is a clear example of the pushback against the fundamental ... votre intervention est un exemple clair de la campagne contre les droits fondamentaux. oui, nous sommes des femmes. toutes les femmes sont diverses, comme les femmes trans. et donc, il n'y a pas seulement la définition des femmes de j.k. rowling. au danemark, il y a un événement dans une bibliothèque cette semaine qui a suscité des menaces de mort pour les drag queens qui vont y participer. c’est une campagne mortelle que vous êtes en train de mener et je vais vous demander d’arrêter d’avoir ce langage haineux.
madam president, today, we have a debate about human rights defenders because this is what we're talking about: we're talking about men and women campaigning for human rights. abortions are part of health care. abortions happen. you can only ban safe abortions. we had a discussion earlier about isabella, who died because she was denied the health care that she needed. this is happening in poland. and no matter how much certain polish politicians are trying to deny it, women in poland are not getting the health care they need because of polish politicians. there is a dedicated misinformation campaign about gender, women's rights and abortion. it is unacceptable that this misinformation campaign is running without being pushed back. we need to unite and make sure that sexual and reproductive health rights are maintained. the debate about trans rights is part of this. it is a unified campaign across spain, across poland, across france, trying to deny fundamental rights for queer people, for women across the world, and we need to step up and push back.
on behalf of the left group. – mr present, no one should be discriminated because of their age, disability, sexual orientation or religious belief. but they are today, according to the european union agency for fundamental rights, 43% of lgbt people in the eu feel discriminated in their daily life, 53% of muslims feel discriminated because of their name when they look for housing, 60% of transgender people feel discriminated. and the numbers are growing. and still we stand here almost 15 years since the commission presented the horizontal anti-discrimination directive. today is a shameful day, a shameful day for the council because you have blocked the directive and, by doing this, you have prevented better protections against discrimination. now let’s take action, let’s end discrimination and let’s make sure that the eu fights all forms of discrimination.
mr president, i would like to thank you. iran may be at the point of no return now. we are at exactly the point in history where the situation in iran, with all that it does to human dignity, to the position of women and to the future of young girls, can change. especially because of the upsurge of the population itself, and the connection to the outside world and the iranian diaspora that our digital age allows. that is why it is being heard in iran, and virtually the whole of the european parliament called in a resolution in january for iran's revolutionary guards, the irgc, to be placed on the eu's terrorist list. the same has been said by several european foreign ministers who would like to see this happen. this is a matter of hope, and right now the iranian people are being fed by the hope we are giving them. giving hope to people in desperation can't be a free ride or a hot air balloon. we simply cannot be familiar with that. just as we cannot be known to throw professional legal arguments down the drain, as the eu's foreign policy representative, borell, claims by saying that we cannot put the irgc on the eu's terrorist list without a concrete court decision. let's get the facts straight. let's give iran action and not just hope.
mr president, i would like to thank you. a big thank you to the citizens who have signed in more than 11 countries in europe. we need to talk about what's happening in our nature, and what's happening to our insects. because the bees in our natural environment are under pressure, swarms of bees are dying, and we don't know why, but just because we don't know exactly why, doesn't mean we shouldn't take action. we must look at reducing the use of pesticides when we look at our agricultural subsidies and when we look at the new reform of the pesticide legislation. but we also need to look at how we design our landscapes, our farms and our cities, because we can all take action to protect wild bees. we need to think of insect corridors in the way we design our landscape, have living fences and shifting crops so that there are flowers that the insects can live on all year round, and we don't have monoculture. but even in your own garden, you can do something. you can leave the pile of leaves so that the wild bees can survive there, so that they can build nests, so that there can be wild bees in your garden. and you can make sure, like the farmers, that there are flowers, so that the insects can live and eat all year long.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. animals are sentient beings, we write that in our treaty, and it is absolutely true. we should also act on this when we legislate in the eu and in relation to the way we run agriculture in the eu. we have problems in agriculture with animal welfare, that is clear, and that should be clear to us when we are making the new legislation that will come in the coming years. i am talking about transporting animals for days, with too little space and no food or water. i'm talking about animals that spend most of their lives in tiny cages where they can't move. and i'm talking about chickens that have been bred to grow so fast that they break their legs. i therefore believe that in order to ensure animal welfare in the long term and to secure some changes, it is essential that we have an animal welfare commissioner. we should have a commissioner with animal welfare responsibilities in his title, and there are several reasons for this. first, we need someone to take charge. animal welfare is too often a subject that is pushed back and forth between different tables. we have seen this often in the case of animal welfare scandals. a few years ago, when the members of this parliament were elected, we had a case where a ship from spain was going to libya with two thousand bull calves, but they were turned away in libya because of suspicion of disease. this ship, it sailed around for months in the mediterranean and there was no one to take responsibility for it until the animals suffered and got sick and died. neither spain nor other european countries nor the european commission wanted to take responsibility, but pushed it back and forth. that is why we need a person in charge, who is also the animal welfare commissioner by name, so that we can change this in the future. i am also pleased with all the things the commissioner is talking about, namely all the new legislation to improve animal welfare. we are talking about new legislation for transport, new legislation to phase out cages, and a whole new animal welfare law in general. all that legislation needs someone to stand behind it and enforce it and push it so that it becomes good legislation, which is why we need an animal welfare commissioner. we want to be at the forefront of animal welfare in europe. we must show that, and we can do so by also making sure that the title of animal welfare commissioner is given to one of the commissioners that we have. i'm not the only one who thinks that. there are 191 members of this parliament who have signed it in the 'eu for animals' campaign, and there are 230 000 people who have signed the campaign here. so i hope the commission will say a little bit about whether it sees the purpose of having an animal welfare commissioner in the future.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, hello? hello? are you aware that there is a climate crisis? frankly, i’m just asking because tomorrow we are voting on the extremely climate-harmful f-gases. but the right wing in this house are trying to undermine the compromise agreement we made in the committee. we agreed on a complete phase-out of f-gases. this agreement is now in danger. we all know that f-gases are up to 24 000 times more damaging to the climate than co2. we all know that f-gases contribute to more eu emissions than several member states. we all know that the technology to get rid of and phase out f-gases exists. i would therefore like to ask my friends, my colleagues on the right wing, why are you trying to punish those innovative companies that have developed the needed green technologies? why are you gambling with our future to protect technologies of the past instead of creating green jobs for the future? why not be ambitious when we can? let us adopt the compromise we made in the committee. let us choose a green future for our children. let us take climate action now.
blue-card speech. – thank you for accepting the blue card. you said that this is a national issue. are fundamental rights not a european issue? the rights of children in the un treaty – is this not a universal issue? so how do you claim that this is not something that we should discuss in the european parliament, where we want to ensure the fundamental rights of all european citizens? we are talking about the rights of children to have their parents recognised. this is something that is not being implemented in italy in the lack of national legislation. so how do you see that we as a european parliament can ensure the rights of all children of europe, their fundamental rights to have their parents recognised and their rights being respected?
mr president, and thank you very much, commissioner, for being here. this is a debate around fundamental rights: the rights of children in our union, if they have the same rights as other children. this is not a question of how they were conceived. this is a question of how their parents have the right to love and protect them, no matter how their family situation is, no matter in which member state they are. this is a matter of our fundamental right of freedom of movement within the european union: we should not have to check whether our family, our parenthood, is respected and protected in the countries that we wish to travel to. if we can go to the hospital if we’re on holiday with our children and be allowed to come into the hospital with our child. but this is also a question of protecting the fundamental rights of each of our countries and the children living there. we cannot have member states, governments and administrations trying to harass families by not recognising the parenthood of children in their country.
rapporteur. – mr president, dear commissioner, dear council and dear colleagues, today we are here voting on a historical and essential piece of legislation. we are here because we stand against pay discrimination. we stand against power abuses and because equal pay for equal work should not only be a founding principle in our treaties, but also a fact on the ground. we are here because we care. we want to make a change. we want to push for gender equality, workers’ rights and social progress. we want a future where there is inclusion and diversity. today we are here to vote on the best-known tool for closing the gender pay gap, to combat gender pay inequalities and pay discrimination. the pay transparency directive is a huge achievement for gender equality and it will help close the current persistent gender pay gap in the european union of 14%. pay transparency has the value of work at its centre because employees should be valued for their work regardless of their gender. with this vote, we abolish pay secrecy contracts. we strengthen workers’ rights and workers’ individual right to information. and we ask employers to report and to fix their pay gaps. furthermore, we ensure that all employers have pay structures in place, ensuring that the treaty-based concept of equal pay for equal work is actually enforced. with this vote, we empower workers and we strengthen the role of social partners. this vote also marks the first time in history that our non-binary friends are recognised in legislation and the first time that we take into account intersectional discrimination as an aggravating factor. and this is a historical moment not only because having these tools and mechanisms are a huge achievement, but also because this sends a message to the world. it shows that this is what legislation can look like when you have two young feminists leading the policies. and for that, i would like to deeply thank my colleague samira for the hard work and incredible cooperation in the past two years. you are truly an inspiring politician and it has been amazing working alongside you and your team. on behalf of samira and i, i would also like to give a special thanks to all the shadow rapporteurs and all the teams for your constant fight for gender equality. i would like to thank the commission as well for putting forward this legislation and supporting us in getting it over the finish line. lastly, a special thanks should go to the czech presidency. without you and without this presidency, we would not have been able to vote on this important file today. i cannot fully express my gratitude towards the czech presidency, but i would like to underline that i am extremely grateful that your presidency and your team chose to take on this file and really walk the extra mile to make this a reality. and coming from denmark, it’s also very nice to see that it is once again proven that smaller countries can have a huge impact on european law-making. lastly, i would also like to thank our amazing teams – asta, julia, claire, hoba, myrthe and blanca – and the contribution and expertise of ngos and social partners that participated in and worked on this file. your work was, and is, extremely essential and valuable. with today’s vote, we will be one step closer in ensuring that there are no more glass ceilings and no more pay discrimination. today we give more rights for workers and we ensure the concept of equal pay for equal work.
rapporteur. – mr president, i thank samira again for her tireless efforts to fight for women, and all kinds of women. and thank you very much, colleagues, for all of your remarks. i’m extremely happy that we are finally voting on this agreement and that we move forward with this important piece of legislation. i envision a future where employees are valued for their work regardless of their gender. a future where employees know their rights and they are not afraid to exercise them, because they know that they are protected by european law. the future is here. we have achieved that and we finally have patented tools to combat pay discrimination, gender-income inequalities and to empower workers. so i look forward to the vote and i’m going to celebrate as well. and i hope that this whole house is.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we have pledged to reduce the eu's co2 emissions by at least 55% by 2030. that promise, it must be kept. that is why this debate is as serious as it is long. but there is also something funny about the title of the package of directives. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the proposals for directives. we know that. still, we've had our laughs, which is fine. for good humor, it never hurts, and we'll need it. because the ability to laugh makes the scale and complexity of the social changes we're facing right now, bearable and actionable. i hope so. it is probably a coincidence, but at the moment - and this is also a bit amusing - we have a swedish presidency somewhere. and then we have been here in parliament, like the swedish chefs from the muppet show, throwing around green demands and high ambitions, while we have updated these many directives and invented new laws. the question is whether what we have baked together in the political kitchen now also tastes good in real life. the eu green deal is very green and thank you very much for that. but is it a deal? if it can do what it needs to do without destroying our businesses and the economy, we need to be able to do what we want to do for the climate. but if it doesn't deliver the necessary co2 reductions that we've promised, either. if that happens, there will be little to laugh about in the future, and i certainly don't see the fun in that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. while china has become increasingly autocratic in recent years, we in europe have become increasingly dependent on china. we've seen how critical raw materials for our industry come from china, and we've seen how critical infrastructure lands in chinese hands. i am thinking here, for example, of china's purchase of greece's largest port, piraeus, and china's current plans to buy into the port of hamburg. the time has come to stop this development. enough is enough. i have two suggestions. firstly, we in the eu must agree on a common definition of what counts as critical infrastructure and join hands to ensure that we do not sell it to foreign powers. secondly, we should take over industries that are vital to our society. i am thinking here of mining, for example, but also of production in the green sector, for example. it is time for the eu to take a more critical role vis-à-vis china. we must be vigilant about our values and we must realize that freedom requires independence.
i have to say, madam president, the eu must be independent and self-sufficient in energy. it is absolutely crucial for our future and an absolutely crucial element in our energy storage. but first of all, we have to make sure that we have enough green energy and energy production. we're just gonna use all the tools we have in the toolbox. of course, it's solar and wind, and then we have to turbo-charge the entire biogas production. and at the same time, we have to turbocharge nuclear power so that we can go all green. we also need to ensure that we have access to the essential minerals so that we can store our energy. this is absolutely crucial for the green transition. we must be self-sufficient in energy in the eu. we simply have to make sensible legislation which actually contributes to what we want and does not delay it. we're going to be masters of our own house, energy-wise.
i have to say, madam president, the harmful chemical pfas is increasingly found in many places throughout europe. in the wild, in the eggs, on the breakfast table, in our drinking water. but rather than acting quickly and effectively, we see that the long-awaited and much-needed update of the eu's chemicals legislation reach has long-term prospects. it's just not good enough. one thing should be clear, both in the case of pfas and reach in general: the longer we wait to act, the more expensive it will be. and the price of that delay is being paid by our children and our children's health. this is simply unacceptable. the eu must take action against chemicals that are harmful to health. we need tougher legislation. pfas can and should be banned in the eu. we owe it to all the citizens of the european union. we owe it to nature.
i have to say, madam president, i'm deeply concerned about the thousands of perennial chemicals we find in our water and our soil, in our drinking water, our kindergartens and our rain gear. denmark has some of the cleanest drinking water in the world. we're proud of that, but it's not a free ticket. on the contrary, it is binding. in denmark, for example, we have just found chemical residues from car tyres and plastic car tyres. over 400 different types of chemicals have been found in our drinking water. this is a problem that is much bigger than pfas and pesticides. that's why we need to take all kinds of perpetual chemicals seriously, and we need to test broadly. we need to replace the perpetual chemicals with innovation and bio-solutions. only then can we ensure safe drinking water and protect our children and grandchildren.
for the left group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. dieselgate is the story of car manufacturers lying about their cars being greener and less polluting than they are. it's a story that repeats itself. in march of this year, it was revealed that 77 percent of diesel cars may still be polluting more than the manufacturers claim. in the coming months we will have to negotiate new emission standards for cars and trucks. here we must guard against the fraud and the deception of the automobile industry. the car industry and its friends say that ambitious standards cannot be afforded. but the green ngo transport & environment can tell us today that the big car manufacturers are reaping huge profits. their shareholders reap profits, and their directors reap huge pay raises. so climate action is affordable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i'm afraid that's the reality of the situation.
mr president, universal human rights and our democracy are based on us being equal, based on non-discrimination. so when you talk about lgbti rights, trans rights and transgender rights as being part of a culture war and a wokeism, you are actually fighting against the basis of our democracy. in 2011, david kato was murdered in his own home. last year we received frank mugisha, who is a lifelong lgbti activist in uganda and the head of sexual minorities uganda, an organisation which last year was banned by uganda. in 2011, the killers entered david kato’s home and killed him. in 2023, the killers are sitting in the parliament in kampala calling for the death sentence for people exercising their democratic rights and having their universal human rights. we have a radicalised ugandan parliament. so what is this strategy of partnership that we’re talking about from the european union? where are our demands for respecting democracy and human rights in uganda? where are the sanctions against the individuals that are promoting this discrimination in kampala? we need a european strategy for universal decriminalisation. i want to see the amsterdam rainbow dress at the next world pride to have removed all of the country flags to replace them by pride flags, showing that we have achieved universal decriminalisation of being who you are.
mr president, i would like to thank you. people get killed because of their love. it is a matter of basic human rights. a man should not be condemned to death for loving another man of the same sex. it is absurd and it is inhuman. i boast every day that my children and grandchildren were born in denmark, where you can love whoever you want. even though we are the leading country in the eu in terms of lgbt+ rights, we should not be blind to the fact that lgbt+ people experience discrimination on a daily basis in the eu as well. and several member states are enacting hateful and discriminatory legislation against these people. it must be stopped! let's look forward and make our future even better for lgbt+ people. we can! we will! we owe it to them!
the commission. i would like to thank the president-in-office. 25 years in a russian penal colony, this is now the consequence for the brave russians who dare to condemn putin's illegal and brutal invasion of ukraine. this is what awaits vladimir kara-murza after a farce of a trial. his only crime is using his freedom of speech to speak out against the war and putin's regime. that's what putin and his henchmen fear. ladies and gentlemen, we must release vladimir kara-murza! alexei navalny must be released! all political prisoners in russia must be released! we must target those responsible for human rights violations with targeted sanctions. we must open our borders and our hearts to deserters and anti-war protesters as they flee putin's reign of terror. the democratic opposition in russia needs our support. the people of russia have the right to human rights and democracy. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution is so important. putin is afraid of freedom of expression, putin is afraid of democracy, putin is afraid of vladimir kara-murza, putin is afraid of alexei navalny, putin is afraid of the thousands and thousands of brave citizens of russia who are standing up to his regime and demanding peace, demanding democracy and demanding freedom. we stand with the brave citizens of russia. we won't forget them. we remember them, and that is why i hope that a large majority will vote in favour of this important decision.
i have to say, madam president, no, i'm not going. no, you can't touch me there. no, i don't want to do that. no, that's a full sentence. it is important that we teach our children that they are allowed to say no if others want to touch them or do things to them that they do not like. that we teach our children that they have the right to decide who they are, what they are, and what happens to them. yes, i would like that. yeah, i like that. yeah, i think we should do that together. it's important that we teach our young people, that we teach our women, that sexual relations, that's something that requires consent. and if there is no consent, then it's rape. it may seem very simple that i should start by talking about this when we are talking about the stamp convention. but that is the essence of the convention. it's that we teach our children, our young people, our families, that we each have the right to decide about our own bodies and what happens to them. this is how we lay the foundations for ending violence against women, domestic violence and intimate partner violence. today i would like to send a greeting to mads geertsen. mads geertsen is a danish actor and performer, who is the character of uncle reje. he has been harassed by a wide group of danes for his children's play because they think it is pedophilia and grooming. similarly, several countries have taken the istanbul convention hostage, saying that it is against their national culture. it's not. it's scientific. that is why we must ratify the istanbul convention for the eu and for each individual member state. so that we can stop violence against women and protect our youth and children.
for the ppe group. madam president, congratulations on a very, very good report on the importance of our groundwater being healthy and our surface water being healthy. i would suggest that instead of spending the rest of the debate celebrating the good report, we should also take the opportunity to promise each other that the petition that is going around the european parliament right now, which together with the european economic and social committee is calling for us to have - in the next parliamentary term - an 'eu blue deal'. we have had, and we shall continue to have, an eu green deal to deal with the climate during this period. that we also have a water biology that ensures that everything that concerns our water is given a comprehensive legislative boost and a boost in a way that we make the eu water-smart for our own sake, for the sake of the next generation and to a large extent also for the rest of the world, which can learn a lot from the way we make water the healthy, the energy-smart, the sustainable resource that it should be for a world in balance.
the blue card question. it is absolutely essential that we fight all forms of anti-semitism wherever we see it. i therefore ask the rapporteur: what are you doing in your political group to respond to the cases we have seen a few days ago? for example, in germany, where the afd takes responsibility for anti-semitic acts and the homage to nazi germany.
madam president, gaza is bleeding. the palestinian civil population is paying the price for hamas’s horrific terrorist attack and years of illegal occupation. children make up almost half of gaza’s population. already thousands and thousands of children have died. while we speak, more and more are dying. no child should experience the war crimes that the children of gaza are living through and dying from right now. dear colleagues, the children of gaza need a ceasefire. the civilian population of israel and palestine and the hostages need a ceasefire. the middle east needs a ceasefire to avoid a major regional war. dear colleagues, all children have the right to live, also the children in gaza. therefore, the message of the eu must be clear for all to hear: ceasefire now!
mr president, gas imports from russia have declined. total russian gas imports fell from 155 billion m³ in 2021 to between 40 and 45 billion m³ in 2023. is that an enormous achievement or is it a tragedy? on the one hand, we managed to decline rapidly the imports of russian gas. on the other hand, we are still paying eur 2 billion every month to mr putin to buy his fossil fuels. if you look at it that way, well, i think it’s a tragedy. when i read the state of the energy union report, i also see that we are not on track. member states are not doing enough to meet our goals for 2030 when it comes to reducing co2 by 55%. so i have an idea for all of us: why don’t we step up the climate efforts – more renewable energy, more energy efficiency – and in the same way we reduce our gas imports, our fossil imports from russia. we can do the two things at the same time. so let’s get started.
mr president, i am not going to say anything. water is the gift that keeps giving. it is a matter on the agenda of the plenary. this is the third time in a row that i've said anything about water. even if the title is about energy. the logic is that water is mostly about energy, and the way we use water is a lot of energy. water is used for energy production, cooling, energy production and energy transport. it is therefore not satisfactory, of course, that the status of this year's energy union report is not digging deep enough into the ocean of potential that is about to activate the relationship between water and energy. three sentences in a 31-page report. so it's like treating water like the thin beer. i am not kate blanchett, but i can say again that this year's un water conference strongly stressed that water must be taken seriously as the central catalyst for health, food and energy. - what? we will not be green without more control over the blue, and the eu actually has the capabilities and therefore the duty to make energy and water play better together. we can do this by getting a eu blue deal, as we have an eu green deal, just as many colleagues, including me and the european economic and social committee, have recently asked the eu governments to back up. there's gonna be a lot of energy in that.
for the left group. mr president! every year at least 70 000 europeans die from air pollution, more than three times the number of traffic deaths. the vast majority of eu citizens are exposed to deadly air pollution. air pollution, which is overwhelmingly caused by cars and trucks. we could have done something about this bill, but the friends of the right-wing car industry would have done differently. so we are now faced with a proposal that has been watered down to unrecognisability. a proposal which essentially merely extends the same low standards for cars that already kill people today. this is a scandal. we don't need greenwashing. we need to put human life above the short-term profits of the automotive industry. we need an ambitious green transition to create the green jobs of the future in europe.
madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, today china produces more than 80% of the global solar panels. china has invested more than eur 46 billion during the last decade. that is more than ten times what we can manage here in europe. we used to be in the lead in this sector. that has certainly changed, and now we risk that the same destiny will occur to our wind industry. we’ve seen investments in wind turbines drop dramatically, and we’re actually seeing a new low in investment for wind turbines. so, it’s time that we change the course. it’s time that we plan our way ahead. it’s time for a european industrial strategy, and this act is part of the answer. as part of it, it’s important that we have sustainability criteria for when we have auctions and public procurement, so that we complement the price criteria. we need to reward the projects that are in line with our climate targets, our environmental targets and our values. so, let’s get behind our cleantech industry. let’s stay there and let us support a green and competitive europe. that is the way forward that will benefit the green transition and the european autonomy.
mr president, i am not going to say anything. the first proposal for pesticide legislation by the commission was on the moon. this would have meant that 90% of the area in denmark is sensitive areas and danish plant production could have been stopped. we have already halved the use of sprayers in denmark by more than 50% since 2011. danish farmers can and will reduce further with new technology. but there has to be time to implement new technology. reduction must be rewarded. yellowhead instead of whip. food security is very important, and we are also taking part in this discussion. we have some good goals for 2035. we're all in agreement that we're going to go beyond 2035. and of course we need to have crispr technology in mind in this area, and precision farming to drive development, but the approval of biopesticides must be accelerated! it is simply necessary to get new funds on the ground so that farmers can reduce further. i would recommend that we vote in favour of the agri amendments.
for the left group. mr president! are we going to take an important step in the fight against climate change? are we going to ensure that the green trucks and buses of the future are produced in europe? or should we just pretend nothing and just let it go? that's the choice we're facing today. we have a compromise ahead of us that will take us a step forward. it's not nearly as good and green as i'd like. but it is a proposal that will bring about important green improvements, and we need them. unfortunately, we also face a right wing who will once again water down the necessary climate action to unrecognition. i just have to ask the right wing, "what the hell are you guys doing?" if you reject our proposal today, you're hurting the climate. then you're sending jobs out of europe and back to the us and china. you will make it even more difficult to achieve the eu's adopted reduction targets. is that really what you want? my fellow workers! we cannot achieve the necessary climate action if we do not reverse the heavy transport. we cannot win the global competition for jobs of the future if we do not change now! and we cannot implement the green transition without action.
question blue card. thank you very much, mr maurel. you have asked why you import cattle and milk from new zealand, but for example lamb can be produced with a better environmental impact in new zealand and transported frozen to europe. so it's more advantageous to produce agricultural products where there's less impact on the climate, instead of producing them in heated farms in europe.
for the renew group. the commission is not going to vote. i'm going to speak danish. this law is intended to harmonize packaging rules, reduce our consumption of disposable packaging and reduce waste. i will no longer go slaloming between glasshouses in copenhagen's parks because wine bottles are not subject to recycling requirements and mortgage arrangements, or walk through the new engines' takeaway packaging because they are cheaper to use and throw away. i do not want to travel through europe with pledge bottles in my purse because the member states do not recognize each other's pledge systems. we have made sure that we do not destroy the possibilities of our micro-enterprises by moving the demand from producer to distributor level. i want to thank frédérique ries for her cooperation in banning pfas in food packaging so we can remove these eternal chemicals from our food. and finally, tomorrow remember that the principle of 'do no harm' must also apply when we change the regulation of our recycling and recycling systems and mortgage systems in our internal market.
mr. chairman, please! we're drowning in garbage and garbage. and there's only one way to go, and it's up, unfortunately. since 2009, the volume of waste in europe has increased by 20%. dear friends, i am tired of plastic lying and swallowing in nature and water. i think a lot of people are tired of that. and in aarhus, denmark, you're tired of it too, and that's why they've started a scheme where you have recycled cups instead of takeaway cups. when you get a cup at a restaurant in aarhus, you set up some mortgage containers where you can deliver this cup and get the mortgage back. this ensures that these cups are not thrown out and float in nature. if aarhus can do it, we can do it all over europe. so let's get a law that phases out plastic waste. let us do something good for both man and nature and let us drop the exceptions that the plastic lobby would very much like us to introduce. let's get the plastic out and let nature and the environment in.
for the left group. the commission is not going to vote. so we're back here. once again, mr orbán's lack of respect for the rule of law is on the agenda. once again, the eu's efforts to secure the basic democratic rights of the hungarian people have been insufficient. once again, it is clear that pressure from the european parliament is needed if respect for fundamental democratic principles is to be respected in hungary. we know that it seems to be economically pressing orban, and it is now clear and clear to everyone. once the eu has made a dent in the economy, orban is pulling ashore. that's why my message is clear. my fellow workers! - my dear commissioner! dear council of ministers! we need to stop laughing at our own money. the eu must stop being passive when human rights are violated. we must stop orban from receiving eu support while violating democratic rights. it is time to take action, my dear colleagues.
on behalf of the the left group. – madam president, commissioner, and prime minister, this is europe. a europe where we stood united in solidarity with ukraine after the brutal attack by putin. a europe that has imposed sanctions against putin for his grave violations against international law and human rights. a europe that actively has engaged in making sure that war crimes in ukraine will be prosecuted. dear colleagues, this is a europe i’m proud of. but when we look at the horrors unfolding in gaza, and the response of the european union, we have clearly failed. we stood united in condemning the brutal terror attack of hamas. good. we have stood united in a call for immediately releasing of all hostages. good. but we have failed in protecting the innocent children and people of gaza. they have died by the thousands. those alive are struggling to survive. if they live, they will be traumatised. this is europe. this europe has for years failed to speak up against israeli violations of international law; failed to speak out against the human-rights violations that palestinians in the occupied territories daily suffer; failed to pressure for a sustainable two-state solution, where both israelis and palestinians can live in peace and prosperity, side by side. dear colleagues, dear prime minister, europe can do better. let this europe be a europe of strong values. a europe that speak out for international laws in all matter. a europe that speak out against killing of civilians, whoever they are. a europe that speak out for peace and prosperity, for both the people of israel and palestine.
in writing. – dear colleagues, since the treaty of lisbon, we have witnessed an increasing number of citizens directly interacting with the union. which is great. but how do we meet them? many of our member states have rules to provide legal certainty and protect citizens interacting with national public administrations. however, as of now, no such rules exist for the european union. our house has already addressed these issues in: the resolution of 15 january 2013 with recommendations to the commission on a law of administrative procedure of the european union; and in the resolution of 9 june 2016 for an open, efficient, and independent european union administration and the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council for an open, efficient, and independent european union administration. only to be dismissed by the european commission. we desperately need regulations for an open, efficient, and independent eu administration, outlining principles for the digitization of administrative procedures and the development and implementation of digital solutions. the call for rules at the level of eu bodies is rooted in the understanding that such regulations are necessary for good administration. it is emphasized that these rules should include special provisions related to digitalization, ensuring that european citizens can enjoy easy and efficient access to digital services and solutions, aligning with the principles of the rule of law and citizen rights. the commission wants to - again - claim that the existing rules are sufficient and dismiss the need for additional regulations. public administrations and digitalisation was highlighting by annual meeting european ombudsmen this year. we must include aspects of digitalisation in the citizens’ rights when they faced with administrations. therefore, our endeavour is also to incorporate new digital solutions to meet the needs of efficient administrations, while ensuring the full rights of citizens. with this vote that we are about to cast now, i urge the parliament to maintain our strong signal to the commission against their inability and reluctance to address these issues. the same signal that was displayed when the file was unanimously adopted across the entire political spectrum of groups in the juri committee on 24 october 2023. the time for action is now – and the commission ought to listen this time.
mr president, i am not going to say anything. i'm sorry, but i'm sorry, but we're back here. the new leak we're discussing today clearly shows that when we talk about tax havens, when we talk about money laundering, the arrow is not only pointing at remote pacific states. the arrow is pointing to us in the eu. because the leak we've seen now shows how the financial sector in cyprus is helping russian oligarchs. helps arms dealers. helps an oil company owned by the syrian regime hide, hide their money. i am sorry to say this to my colleagues, but it is clear that hypocrisy is breaking down walls here in the building and in the european union as a whole. we are all in agreement that tax evasion must be combated, but we are still allowing it to happen in many places throughout the european union. luxembourg is one of the world's largest tax havens. ireland is unsubstantial in lowering corporate taxes to attract large companies, and now we have also been exposed to how cyprus, with its light financial rules and its almost nonexistent controls, facilitates tax evasion, facilitates money laundering. it just can't keep going. we're gonna have to get in there. let's live up to our own standards. let's put the countries, the eu countries that act as tax havens on our tax havens blacklist. it's time to act.
mr president, colleagues, commissioner, i have a lovely speech with facts and information about the violence committed against women. but we know the facts. all of you in this room know about the hundreds and thousands of women that are being killed, that are being raped, that are being victims of violence. i don’t need to repeat this to you. i want those of you that are not in the room today to take this seriously. we are not moving in the right direction. last week, in reykjavik, there was a presentation of the reykjavik index, showing the view of our populations of women as leaders, of women as human beings. in the uk, in canada and in the us, this year, there are less people in our population that respect women as equal human beings at the same level as men. we have a huge danger in front of us. we have authoritarian politicians that are attacking women as equal human beings. and we have centre-right, centre-left politicians that are afraid of their own values, that are afraid of standing up for the defence of women and therefore are afraid of implementing the correct definition of rape, which is: if there is no consent, there is no sexual intercourse, there is no sex, there is only rape. no means no and yes means yes. women are capable of giving consent and men are capable of respecting it.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear commissioner and dear members, i’m standing here today as the rapporteur for the tax policy in times of crisis, the report by the fiscal subcommittee. i think we should start by recognising that the role of taxation as a policy instrument to redistribute revenue and steer behaviour remains underutilised in european policymaking. we all collectively pay every single day a high price for this failure to act at eu level, especially in times of crisis. during the most recent crises, such as covid, the energy crisis or inflation, inequalities increased, inequalities between men and women, inequality between the very rich and the rest, and inequalities between big corporations and small businesses and self-employed. the report proposes key elements to make european tax systems more equal, fairer and green, and we want the commission to play a stronger role in making this happen. only a holistic and responsible eu wide tax reform will make us collectively ready to pay for the many challenges. today, i hope we can use this plenary debate to confront the stark reality of our current tax system – a tax system where a nurse, a teacher or a fireman dedicating their lives to caring of others face a higher tax rate than a shareholder, a billionaire flying around the world in a private jet or a big multinational. let’s be concrete and allow me to share two examples. the very rich pollute much more than regular citizens, and in 2021 and 2022 alone, we have seen a big increase in private jets in the eu, an increase of 64%. at the same time, some multinationals are misusing the crisis years to raise consumer prices for them to have even more profits, the so-called ‘excess profits’. we’ve seen that inflation has been profit driven in the eu, and this is recognised by both ecb, imf and academia. so the scenario that we collectively live in is one where a nurse earning a normal wage contributes an important portion of her salary in taxes, funding essential public services that benefit us all, while due to political choices, a wealthy shareholder will see its profits zero or low tax in the eu. this is not merely an abstract concept, but a tangible inequality that exists within our societies. those who contribute directly to our communities bear heavier tax than those who profit immensely. that’s not the society i want, and it is not the society that the 99% deserve. tomorrow, members of this parliament stand for clear choice when voting on this report. do they want a tax system that doesn’t make workers bear the burden, as they can’t easily move around to another country, a more gender equal tax system – and it is no coincidence that men mostly own shares and have most wealth, and that this wealth remains low taxed – a fairer tax system in which big polluters and multinationals pay taxes on their excess profits made on the back of normal people paying a higher bill in the supermarkets, a society with sufficient tax revenues to invest in our healthcare, education, infrastructure, renewable energy and innovative businesses? regrettably, today and tomorrow, conservative voices will consciously attempt to mischaracterise progressive tax policies as synonyms with higher taxes on workers. this is deeply false. not taxing fairly the rich, the big polluters and the multinationals is a political choice, and it shouldn’t be our political choice.
rapporteur. – madam president, unfortunately, those that have been misusing this debate to spread false claims and watered down the report did not even show up for today’s debate. allow me to be extremely honest: those that claim to stand for less or low taxation are selling false promises. if you want lower taxes, how are we going to face the huge societal challenges that we need to face? we are facing a war at our borders, and a climate and a biodiversity crisis. we have a transition to pay and an ageing society to fund. are we going to pay for these challenges with more debt, or are those calling for less taxes actually calling for austerity, massive cuts in public services leading to less health care, less education and less infrastructure? over the last decades, our tax laws were designed to tax more – much more – those that consume, work and can’t move around, and tax less – much less – those with capital, profits and property. do we want to stick to this deeply unfair status quo? i don’t think so. instead, we should look beyond political misconceptions, and stand for fair, reasonable and responsible tax policy. that is what this report is all about. while the very rich, the big polluters and the big corporations should pay more, workers and self-employed should pay less. our tax system needs to be rebalanced. so we should unite in the call for a fairer, more just tax system – one that benefits every citizen and safeguards the future of our european union as a social, green and economic powerhouse.
madam president, i am not going to say anything. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her initiative and her focus on ensuring that we fight the stigma that is associated with mental health. if we have a broken leg, then none of us will miss going to the emergency room, but if we have a mental health problem, if we are depressed or suffering from bipolar disorder, then there are many who do not dare to seek the treatment they need because of the stigma it imposes. but there are also some of us who have a brain that works a little bit differently, that thinks differently, that acts differently, that needs different frameworks. we've just seen the pisa results from our schools across europe, and our kids are having a really hard time, and they're not getting the results they did in school before. is it because of cell phones, or are cell phones just an excuse to say that we have a hard time getting everyone in? we must ensure that there is funding for qualified teachers, for educators, and that we also make room for each other, both in schools and in education, but also in the workplace, to be who we are. and there's room for diversity. there is room for different ways of thinking, and that gives you better mental health.
madam president, we desperately need regulations for an open, efficient and independent eu administration, outlining principles for the digitalisation of administrative procedures and the development and implementation of digital solutions. the call for the rules at the level of eu bodies is rooted in the understanding that such regulations are necessary for good administration. since the treaty of lisbon, we’ve witnessed an increasing number of citizens directly interacting with the european union, which is great, but how do we meet them? many of our member states, they have rules to provide legal certainty and protect citizens interacting with national public administrations. however, as of now, no such rules exist at the level of the european union. we must make sure that these rules include special provisions related to digitalisation, ensuring that european citizens can enjoy easy and efficient access to digital services and solutions, aligning with the principles of the rule of law and citizens’ rights. however, the commission once again wants to claim that the existing patchwork of rules are sufficient, and dismissed the own-initiative report that we voted last week calling for additional regulation.
mr. chairman, please! if something is going to be strong in the eu, it can and must be strong. the eu must as soon as possible break its dependence on purchasing critical raw materials only from too few suppliers on the world market, thus setting the stage for the eu's green transition and industrial growth. we're going to have to buy from more people and get more from our own underground, huge amounts of waste and wastewater. otherwise we're not going to reach the climate targets! similarly, the current deindustrialization of the eu economy will not be able to turn into sustainable innovative growth, which is necessary to deliver not only on climate targets but also on all the defence and life science needs we want. i would like to thank my colleagues, the council and the commission for their effective cooperation so far, when work on the new raw materials act can begin. it is important to follow up and certainly facilitate, because there is a lot of local conflict in the application of the law. when we talk about raw materials, we often talk about the raw materials themselves, but it is also in their processing that it is important to focus, whether they are first extracted from the ground or reused in the circular economy. this must be done in a cost-effective manner and without neglecting the need for research and innovation into alternatives to scarce and critical raw materials. china is here 10 years ahead of everyone else - 10 years! it says something about the need for pace and investment we face. but there's no way around it.
mr president, for too long we’ve been naively believing in globalisation without asking critical questions. we thought we could get the goods that we needed from wherever we needed. it didn’t matter who we became dependent on as long as we could make a good deal. in the meantime, china has accelerated its industrial transformation and has monopolised a lot of the critical raw materials that we need, and we are indeed very dependent on china today. in fact, 98 % of the rare earths that we need for our digital and green economy comes from china. they are being processed in china, and 60 % of global lithium is being processed in china. so today we are dependent on a regime with whom we don’t share values. it’s about time we exited this situation. i think this critical raw materials act is a good step in the right direction. i’m especially happy to see the benchmark of recycling of raw materials of 25 % by 2030, and that europe should process 40 % of its annual needs of raw material itself in 2013. let’s get rid of the dependency. let’s do it now.
mr. chairman, please! i'm going to call you. i'm sorry, but i'm not here to tell you. remember the time after the financial crisis when greece sold its biggest port, piraeus, to china? if not, then you may remember earlier this year when the port of hamburg - parts of the port of hamburg - was sold to china. that's just how capitalism works, isn't it? well, there's someone out there who wants to sell something. there's someone here to buy something. you're making a deal. we have critical infrastructure. that doesn't make it any bigger. as milton friedman, the nobel prize-winning economist, said, "the business of business is business". you don't mix politics and business. but we can see today that china is using its economic power to pressure countries that depend on china - with which china is trading - and therefore we must realize that milton friedman was wrong. we were wrong. the whole of europe was wrong. we may make mistakes, but that we have become so dependent on china, it's a big one of the fight. we're gonna get out of this. let's change course. let us make sure that we do not get caught up in china and reduce our dependence. let's not sell our critical infrastructure to china in the future.
mr. chairman, please! where, with a sense of how to use your time optimally and produce results, you've said that once you've written your memoir, you start with what you wrote at the end. i would like to say that we should do this with the recommendations on the eu-china relationship. let us begin with the question of minimizing risks in relations with china to ensure europe's open strategic autonomy, as it sounds so simple, even though it covers everything from critical infrastructure and critical raw materials to china's increasing military provocations in the south china sea. because otherwise we will never get anywhere near getting china to participate in solving the global challenges we face with climate, biodiversity, public health, food security and so on. and otherwise we will not make china respect human rights and the rule-based world order, or make china stop supporting the united states' attempts to divide and tear europe apart. in about a month's time, the commission will present its work programme for 2024. the eu-china report highlights the high expectations and highlights significant efforts to increase economic security through screening of foreign investment in the eu, export controls, diversification of raw materials and other supply chains.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, it’s a pity that we’re having this debate while it seems like a small minority of the house haven’t even read the text that we’re discussing. they’re talking about things that are not in the text, that are not what we’re supposed to be discussing today. i would recommend our colleagues from the far right to actually read what they’re about to debate before they start talking. returning to what i actually want to say: ‘what is in a name? that which we call a parent, a parent by any other name, would love that child just as dearly.’ when describing love or protection of a child, the language of the law is not as flexible as the sonnets of shakespeare. that is why we need to strengthen the rights of children so that they can be supported, protected and loved by their parents in all of our member states. our children, no matter on which member state’s soil they stand, must enjoy the same rights to their parents. parents must be allowed to support their children. we must ensure the rights of children, no matter the form of their families. we must focus on our children, their safety and freedom. our children must not be made hostages of political folly. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question)
blue-card answer. – sorry, i was waiting for the translation. minorities of different ethnicity, sexual orientation or gender is one thing. a minority in a parliament that is losing a vote is a completely different thing. what i said in my introduction before i started my speech was that some parts of this parliament, some members of this parliament, are discussing things which are not in the text of the proposal of the commission, and do not seem to read the text that they’re discussing before they start speaking. we should accept, protect and encourage the rights of all minorities within europe.
the question is "blue card". you say we are talking about formalities, bureaucracy, administration, whereas we should be talking about nature. so the nature of relationships between people should be recognized only by nature? should marriage or partnership certificates be cancelled because nature is preferred over formalities?
author. – mr president, this is a question for oral answer to the commission and the council regarding the non-objection mechanisms in international conventions to which the european union is a party. the european union is a party to conventions that provide for accession by third states through clauses setting up a ‘silence or non-objection’ procedure at international level. in its opinion 1/13 of 14 october 2014, the court of justice of the european union held that the act of accession and the declaration of acceptance of such an accession constitute an international agreement, and that concept is referred to in article 218 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. according to case-law, an international agreement cannot affect the allocation of powers under the treaties, thus when at international level a silence procedure has been adopted to facilitate accession by third states, it should be of no consequence for the eu’s internal decision-making process. it should therefore be considered that the eu needs to establish its position in regard to accessions by third states to the hague conventions that fall under eu exclusive competence, even for conventions containing a silence or non-objection procedure. the conclusion of an international agreement with this type of clause should not lead to the consequence that article 218 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the institutional balance laid down therein are set aside. this is why we pose this question to the commission and the council. in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 218, for each accession of a third country to a hague convention falling under a non-objection mechanism such as the judgments convention, the commission should submit to the council a proposal for a decision, and the council can take such a decision with the consent of this house. if the council, with the consent of the parliament, decides to object to establishing relations under the convention with a new contracting state, the commission will have to notify the depositary to that effect. so we ask what steps the commission and the council intend to take to fully apply the procedures set out in article 218 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union in matters concerning the establishment of the eu’s position regarding accessions by third states to the hague conference on private international law conventions, in particular when that international convention contains a non-objection procedure.
