madam president, i would just like to draw the house's attention, in accordance with rule 195 of the rules of procedure, to the fact that julio obama, an activist opposed to the regime in equatorial guinea, died yesterday in a prison in that country, probably murdered. his death comes days after the spanish judiciary charged carmelo ovono obiang, the dictator's son and head of the secret services, with crimes against humanity, which can only be seen as a form of retaliation. i therefore call on our parliament, the council and the commission to take all appropriate measures to prevent the other kidnapped comrades like him, feliciano efa, martin obiang and bienvenido ndong from suffering the same fate.
mr president, we are celebrating the 30th anniversary of the single market, which came into force on 1 january 1993 following the signing of the maastricht treaty on 7 february 1992. so it was not just the internal market, which is very important, but also european citizenship (proposed by felipe gonzález), the euro, european political parties, the co-decision power of this parliament and its participation in the appointment of the president of the commission and also cohesion policy. let us remember, then, that the internal market is undoubtedly the deepening of that first market established by the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community, whose mission - let us not forget it is written in the schuman declaration - was that this first community should be the first step towards the creation of a federation in europe.
mr president, commissioner, we are in a very difficult period for europe: high energy prices for raw materials, fierce competition from the united states and china and the threat of deindustrialization is becoming more and more serious. in this context, the responsible management of our waste is not just an environmental and public health issue. encouraging its reuse and creating a market for recycling within our borders and not exporting the problem to third countries is a necessity for the european union, which is also so dependent on raw materials from other countries. waste is a tremendously valuable resource, with great economic and industrial potential if we learn to use it intelligently. i am thinking, for example, of scrap iron, so necessary to produce the green steel of the future. the regulation we are discussing today is essential to reduce our dependence and make our production more sustainable and now a circular model. but i also think we have to go further and that is why i think we must ensure, with effective controls and very clear criteria, that at all stages of waste management we do not turn our backs on our standards with massive shipments to third countries.
member of the commission. – honourable members, thank you for this productive and very consensual exchange. i have taken good note of all your remarks and observations, and i’m very pleased to see a large majority supporting ms weiss’ report. let me briefly reflect on some of the key issues raised. first of all, as regards the proposed ban on the export of plastic waste from the eu, which, as i already said in my introductory remarks, we will need to assess very carefully. the eu rules on the export of plastic waste have become stricter since 2021, and this has already led to a decrease in the export of plastic waste to non-oecd countries over the last two years. furthermore, with our proposal, we are proposing a new regime applying to the export of all waste that will, in practice, further strengthen the conditions under which plastic waste could be exported outside the european union. we have not pursued the option of a complete export ban for plastic waste in our proposal as, according to international rules, a restriction on trade has to be grounded on purely environmental grounds and can only be imposed when no other less trade-restrictive measures are available to achieve the objectives. in this case, we believe that the measures in the commission proposal are both effective in curbing plastic pollution caused by our exports of plastic waste and proportionate to the problems. we also believe that our proposal could contribute to raising the standards for the management of plastic waste in third countries. so, as i said, we will look at it very carefully, but we need to make sure that it is in full compliance with our international commitments. as regards comments on exports of steel and iron scrap. the commission proposal includes strong measures to ensure that waste, including metal waste, is treated in broadly equivalent conditions to the european union, and these measures are expected to lead to a decrease of waste exports. and our impact assessment showed that the eu industry has the capacity to process this waste. as regards labour conditions in third countries and sustainable management of waste, we have taken note of a proposal of the european parliament to consider eight international labour organization conventions and we are open to considering including such agreements in country assessments. we want to point out that recently two additional conventions were concluded under the umbrella of ilo, and we invite colleagues to also take them into account in the light of the proposed amendment. finally, as regards illegal shipment activities, the commission is working closely with enforcement agencies from the eu member states, the eu network for the implementation and enforcement of environmental law, europol and international organisations like the united nations office on drugs and crime, and the basel convention to tackle illegal waste management activities and illegal waste shipments. and the eu notably supports cross-border investigations and cooperation between enforcement agencies in its member states, and this is reinforced in the waste shipment regulation. so, honourable members, as i said at the outset, the commission is fully committed to advancing as rapidly as possible on this file. you can count on our support to help the co-legislators ensure that ambitious futureproof rules start applying to waste shipments without any delay. we hope for swift progress under the swedish presidency to match the pace of work in the european parliament.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. now, let's move on to the briefing. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the next item is the briefing on the motion for a resolution on the creation of a european capital of local trade (2022/2874 ((rsp)) i give the floor to the chair of the peti committee for four minutes.
rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, i would also like to welcome the vitrines d'europe and barcelona comerç, who are in the gallery today. today is a great day for local commerce. it is a recognition of the millions of workers, self-employed, entrepreneurs and smes engaged in local trade in europe. but it is also for all european citizens, especially those in barcelona, who have seen how their trade has fought to get us here today, to create the european capital of local trade and to have a european capital of local trade every year. i am grateful, not only as a spanish citizen but also as a european, that local businesses are creating this great project which is the european union, because it is a guarantee of economic and social progress. as chairman of the committee on petitions, i have been insisting on the need for this initiative to be taken forward and, as a member of the european people's party, it has been an honour to get this initiative. what's local business? what does it mean what we accomplished today? local commerce is much more than a shop window or a neighbor who serves you in his shop. local commerce is the economic and social impetus for our cities, life for our neighbourhoods and safety for our streets. it represents the way we understand european cities, our culture, our way of life and our common identity. this is an ambitious project, of great wealth, generating economic opportunities. the initiative was born in barcelona, a spanish city that has historically been characterised by its wealth in local trade. our european identity is rooted in the towns, because europe is also our cities. we must therefore value the entrepreneurial spirit of trade unions and traders, relying on them for european digitalisation, sustainable mobility, the circular and green economy, because they are the economy on the street. the covid-19 crisis has highlighted that when the city shut down, essential businesses remained standing and open. alongside health, local trade professionals have sustained european cities and their people. this initiative therefore seeks to give the visibility that local trade needs and deserves throughout europe and more so in a globalised world where we sometimes forget what is closer to home. the initiative gives value to the local and is closely linked to our history as europeans. globalisation is undoubtedly a fundamental reason for economic growth and employment, but it cannot lead us to turn our backs on our nearest trade, quite the opposite. it must lead us to strengthen it and, from the european institutions, to promote it. there are many jobs at stake, there is a family economy and they deserve all our support. i have always said it and i say it again today: local trade is life. if there is trade, there is life, there is color in the streets, there is more coexistence between people and neighbors in a neighborhood. local businesses have a social function with the neighbours in their area. it is precisely this proximity and proximity that make the trader particularly sensitive to the specific needs of a neighbour. we must therefore take care of and help our commercial fabric, which is of vital importance to our economy and to the social harmony of our neighbourhoods. local commerce has been able to reinvent itself, it has withstood all the challenges and continues to do so with enormous difficulties, such as the crisis generated by covid-19 or this brutal inflation that we are suffering. the european union must therefore be their best ally. local, local trade is a common cause in europe and i am asking the commission today, together with parliament, to make this initiative a reality. and i also ask all the members of this parliament to vote tomorrow in favour of the creation of the european capital of local trade, because that is how we will achieve and secure more trade, more cities and more europe.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank and congratulate the proposers who have brought this initiative to this point, to the european parliament. it is very important because local trade reminds me very much of an essay by george steiner, who spoke about the idea of europe, which said that the idea of europe is built on cafes, on those streets named after famous people, literary figures, scientists; on that landscape, that geography that you walk, that you know. i would add to steiner's ideas about the identity of europe the idea of proximity trade. that identity that those of us who live in cities go down to our streets and find there that nearby store that knows, that serves, that is close to what we need, that knows the elderly, that knows the problems they have. it is trade that has withstood pandemics, that has withstood crises, that has withstood franchises, consumer models, but it is essential to maintain our idea of europe. i therefore wanted to propose that the commission should adopt this proposal. i would like to thank the proposers again and, as i am convinced that the commission will take up this proposal, as a barcelona citizen, i would also like to propose barcelona as the first european capital of local trade.
madam president, mr prime minister, we who defend trade have been waiting for your intervention with a special eagerness to hear you speak about trade as one of the priorities of your term. that was because, in the last few european semesters, trade has not been one of the priorities of the various presidents and presidencies. however, i have to say, with some concern and some disappointment, that this has not been the case. i hope it was because the agenda was very busy and the time was very limited, because sweden has made trade a key element in its prosperity and europe needs trade. we have been paralysed in our trade policy for too long, especially in a key agreement which i urge you to unblock: the mercosur agreement. europe - its businesses, its jobs, its prosperity, its competitiveness - needs trade agreements, and mercosur is key. i therefore ask you for your courage and your determination to ensure that your presidency is the key to making 2023 the year of trade relations between europe and latin america and to ensure that the mercosur agreement does not become a problem but a solution to the challenges we face as europeans and as citizens of this planet.
in writing. the beginning of the swedish presidency comes at a key moment for the european union, as structural measures are expected throughout the year to respond to social discontent over high inflation, while work continues on the solution to the terrible ukrainian conflict, the challenge of european competitiveness, the reform of the energy market - and in particular the comprehensive reform of the electricity market - the ecological transition and the defence of the rule of law. the s&d group regrets that the swedish presidency's programme does not include a single commitment on the social pillar, women and migrants and hopes that it will rectify and advance the work on the directives on gender violence and pay transparency and the new pact on migration and asylum, in particular the measures relating to legal migration. the socialists also hope that the swedish presidency, which has always been recognised as being at the forefront of human rights, will keep its commitments and not be dragged along by its far-right partners.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank all the political groups involved in the preparation of this own-initiative report by the european parliament, which focuses on a very important issue in the european union today: the video games sector at european level. the objective of this report is two-fold. firstly, to stress the need to create legislation at european level and to harmonize the rules of the single market in the video games sector and market. secondly, to demonstrate the importance of strengthening the protection of consumers, and particularly minors, in this fast-growing sector in europe. to do this, it is important to put the situation in which we find ourselves in context. it is true that the video game industry is gaining more and more followers in the european union. statistics show that since the pandemic, more than 51 million europeans started playing games in 2020. if we add up the total number of users at community level, it is over 367 million. it is true that this is an industry which adds a great deal of value to european employment, creating over 98 000 jobs. it also plays a relevant role in the inclusion of the disabled population, making it an actor not only of entertainment, but also of education. it also has a significant value in the value chain, bringing together european smes and start-ups in a sector with more and more followers. but not only are the benefits of a pioneering industry in europe important, and that is why the report also highlights important risks at the social level which we must take into account. for example, the first, which affects the mental health of a large number of players, particularly young players, in the european union. certain video game addictions are demonstrated in the european union. video game addiction, recognized by the who as a gaming disorder, is also seen to affect more people every day. we therefore have to protect european consumers from the european union so that these addictions are reduced. so let us also work from within the european institutions to provide truthful information, transparent and accessible information so that video game players in the european union can decide to do so with all the information at their disposal, with information that the industry must provide. we therefore ask the european commission to make this information clear in the legislation we are going to be asking for. there's not just the mental health risk. i also want to draw attention to a gender bias that exists in the sector. currently, only 22% of the industry's jobs are held by women and, more importantly, the industry tends to objectify women and perpetuate stereotypes in certain video games. we therefore also ask the european commission to look at this situation in the video game sector in europe and to take action if necessary. and finally, commissioner, i want to focus on the protection of minors. we also need the pegi system to provide greater transparency and also to ensure that parents and carers of these children have the most important and accessible information at their disposal every day. i do not want to end this presentation without also mentioning an issue which should possibly be the subject of debate in the european institutions such as loot boxes, loot boxes and bounty boxes in the european union. it is important that europe looks at the consequences of these loot boxes. this part of video games is important in europe and, in short, it is important that europe remains a pioneer in the european single market. it is important that video games continue to be the frontrunners in europe and that is why we are also calling in this report for the creation of community games here in the european parliament itself. above all, we protect our minors, we protect the players and, above all, we also protect the industry.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, the purpose of this report is to inform the commission of the parliament's position on the protection of citizens in online gaming, especially minors. i would like to thank the rapporteur, adriana maldonado, for her work. i think we have achieved our objectives: to identify the regulatory gaps and really put on the table the need to harmonise the laws governing video games in europe, so that all european citizens enjoy the same level of protection regardless of where they live, while being able to boost a favourable ecosystem for companies to develop in such an important sector. europe must become the safest place to play video games, but it must also become the best place to develop them. i am particularly pleased about this, because i think we have achieved all the objectives we set ourselves: the creation of a european strategy for video games, the harmonisation of labelling through the pegi system and the promotion of accessibility of video games for people with disabilities. in short, it's about protecting especially young people, children, in the online world, in the video game sector, but also, i repeat, creating the right ecosystem so that our companies can develop and be global leaders, because the protection of rights and the boost of the industry can and should go hand in hand.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, if you will allow me to use these two minutes, i will mainly be thanking the alternative rapporteurs for the good cooperation we have had on this initiative of parliament's own, an example of how, when politics wants it, it can negotiate, agree and, above all, reach important legislation. that is what we are asking the commission to do. i am glad to see that the commissioner feels that this report strikes a balance between defending an innovative sector in the european union, which employs over 98 000 people, and protecting not only european consumers, but also minors and parents, by giving them tools to make good use of and control video games when their children play them. all in all, i think it's a good start. i think it is important that we get to work and above all i would also like to highlight the role that the european union has played on many occasions as a pioneer on a world scale. when we were preparing this report, thanks to the services of parliament, we could see that there is no political jurisdiction in the world which has legislation of its own which is as wide-ranging and as ambitious as that which we are asking for in the european parliament on video games. politics is the challenge of adapting to reality, of being able to provide solutions to complex problems and, above all, to the novelties that come into society. video games are one of these sectors, an innovative sector that mainly uses a young audience and, above all, that has to give solutions to the realities we face today. in this report, as a general conclusion, we also discussed mental health problems. we talked about certain gender stereotypes, but we also emphasised that this is a sector that creates quality jobs, that is worthy of mention for start-ups and, above all, that ultimately protects the single market. so we have a unique opportunity to create european legislation that puts the single market at its best, as we remembered this week on its 30th anniversary.
mr president, commissioner, once again in europe we find ourselves in a situation where we cannot offer patients the medicines they need. there are no painkillers, no antibiotics... it is true that the situation in china and the need for this country to use more medicines in the severe covid-19 crisis it is suffering causes a disruption at european level. we are able to monitor this shortage better than before the pandemic, thanks also to the reform we have made of the european medicines agency, which gives us more tools, despite the intentions of the commission and the council to limit the scope of that reform and to equip ourselves with even more monitoring systems. but we know that they are failing and we know that they are failing because there is also a european market that is not functioning properly. we need to revise pharmaceutical legislation once and for all so that we can design a thorough restructuring of that market. we're out of medicine. it's a chronic recurring problem, and we're still waiting for solutions. this parliament has already made no less than two resolutions. so we have to move on, commissioner. we can't wait any longer, because we also generate greater antibiotic resistance when antibiotics are lacking.
madam president, what is the main new development or allegation we have about foreign interference in the european institutions? for a month now there is one, which is not the qatargate, it is the qatar/moroccogate, the qatar/moroccogate. i thought commissioner johansson was going to give us some kind of information about, for example, mr borrell's trip to morocco and the explanations that morocco, which is directly involved in this scandal of bribes to meps, has been able to give him. he has said absolutely nothing to us, because what greater interference is there than buying the legislative work of a parliament, a partner and friend? and do you know what mr bourita, the moroccan foreign minister, says? that this is a harassment campaign instigated by some mps with their own agenda. how can we allow partners and allies, instead of giving explanations, to make accusations against members of this house who do not bend to their money and their pay? that is a situation we have to correct and the best way, in addition to internal control mechanisms, is to ask these strategic partners and allies for explanations, because there will be no impunity for corruption. there should be no such thing in this parliament. but will the corrupters escape punishment? will there be impunity for corrupt countries?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. madam president, high representative, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on gender equality on the common security and defence policy, i have to say that it is disappointing that none of the proposals we have made in our committee have been included in this report. equal opportunities for men and women are certainly one of the great priorities of this house, but we must lead by example and, unfortunately, in the field of security and defence, there is still a great deal to be done. we must adopt a zero tolerance approach to sexual harassment and exploitation, whether it is on the staff of our cooperation missions or among the local population we target. we have an ethical and moral obligation to carry out the necessary audits to ensure that those responsible for these inhuman acts are held to account and, however uncomfortable the reality, we must root out these problems. as lawmakers, we can't keep looking the other way.
mr president, i would also like to thank the high representative and vice-president of the european commission for their presence and patience. the debate has seen a consensus - a very clear majority, i would say - in favour of going beyond unanimity in foreign policy decision-making. there are three ways of moving in that direction, from the most difficult to the easiest - none of them is easy, but let us accept this order: the first is to reform the treaty; the second is to activate the bridge clauses; and the third is to apply article 31 of the treaty on european union more strictly. why do i say this? this article does indeed say that decisions are to be taken unanimously in general, but it also says that they are to be taken by qualified majority when a decision of the european council relating to the strategic interests and objectives of the union is to be applied, as well as to implement any decision resulting from an action or position of the union already adopted.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, it is worrying that, according to various indices of democracy, there has been a general decline in democracy in recent years. less than half the world's population lives in a democracy. the region that has suffered most from this decline has been latin america. this is due to the rise of anti-liberal populism, which in many cases has come to power legitimately and subsequently transits to autocratic permanence, ending respect for human rights and the rule of law. brazil has seen its democracy falter in recent days. so does peru, for different reasons. in bolivia, the government is taking a repressive turn, as is the dictatorial triangle formed by cuba, venezuela and nicaragua. the european union must not forget these countries, which are allies of putin, and which support russia's unjustified and illegal invasion of ukraine, when it comes to establishing relations with these countries. what does the commission intend to do to deal with this reality?
mr president, commissioner, thank you for the work of isabel wiseler and isabel santos for our group. the extent and depth of authoritarian currents in the world, the apparent safety of liberal assumptions, the fact that we have ceased to be a model for other societies, the erosion of our soft power, our repeated failure to attempt democratic experiments after conflicts, reveal a certain bewilderment in the area of mature democracies. the two rapporteurs have spoken of anxiety. in contrast, a narrative that draws human rights not as a universal conquest of civilization, but as a western mechanism of neocolonial domination seems to be imposing itself. we are engaged in a cultural and ideological war between democracies and autocracies. and this situation advises going out to fight the battle in the open. mature democracies, international institutions, civil societies in authoritarian countries, we have to come together and reaffirm our principles and our values. and surely this 75th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights is an appropriate moment to reaffirm our values and our willingness to fight for them.
madam president, we must make progress on sanctions and on military aid to ukraine. in the first of the fields, of course, the navalni list in its entirety, as several colleagues have said. we could go even further: think of all the members of the political parties that make up the putin regime, who could at least be denied visas to travel to europe. and, of course, the question of armaments. i remember that almost a year ago when the war began, a few weeks after the aggression, several of us in this house began to say that we should give tanks and fighter planes to ukraine, and we were told that this was not possible because it would require several months of training of the ukrainian army to be able to use these weapons. well, here we are almost a year later. how much time could we have gained if we'd made those decisions then? please, let's not delay them any longer.
madam president, dear colleagues, the destruction of homes and cities; thousands killed; mass executions; rape or forced deportations. the russian war of aggression against ukraine brings untold suffering every day. this evil is an attack on all basic moral and legal principles. as such, the leadership of the russian federation must one day face justice for crimes of aggression and crimes against peace. justice must prevail, not least to bring a measure of justice to the victims, even if it cannot resurrect the lost loved ones. as justice robert jackson said at the opening of the nuremberg trials in 1945: ‘we must never forget that the record on which we judge these defendants today is the record on which history will judge us tomorrow’.
madam president, first, if i may, a question of respect for the rules of procedure: you have closed the debate with a list of no less than eight members of the european people's party and you have opened the procedure for the use of the 'catch the eye' by giving the floor three times in a row to three members of the group of the european people's party. it would have been more reasonable to alternate with the other groups which we had asked to participate in the 'catch the eye' procedure, but in any case, it is very clear what this house is asking for. commissioner reynders, i have to say that i found your initial statement a bit generic. you have made a lot of points: that you are working on a working document, that you have worked with the commissioners, with the services, that this has to be studied very carefully. well, of course, that is what the technicians are for, but you have given us no good reason why, after the first initiative of this parliament, with the letter we presented in april and the resolution in may, you should not at this stage say clearly that you are in favour of setting up the special tribunal. i don't know what you're waiting for. the technicalities will come later. please give the political signal that five political groups in this house have requested. only two meps - one from the far right and one from the far left - were against.
madam president, commissioner, i am among those who conclude that the setbacks and crises we are coming from, such as this illegal, unjust and criminal war of aggression, must make the european union grow in its proclaimed vocation to be globally relevant and thus contribute to the globalisation not only of artificial intelligence, the digital agenda and the fight against climate change, but also of criminal law and criminal justice against the impunity of war crimes. it is not easy, because the european union has to maintain its unity, not only by supporting ukraine until putin is finally defeated, but also by maintaining its unity to act in the international community and finally create that special court that complements the international criminal court for the prosecution of war crimes. and because it will not be easy, we will have to make use of the strong united political will of all the member states and the european union to act in the international community and in the united nations to create a special criminal court against the crimes of aggression. when there's a will, there's a way.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i want to thank you again for this debate and for your support for the initiatives taken in favour of international justice. as you know, the commission is constantly promoting respect for international law and the fight against impunity for those responsible for international crimes. i would like to clarify again what i heard, a number of remarks on war crimes or other crimes committed in ukraine: we play a central role in the prosecution and implementation of proceedings in respect of war crimes, crimes against humanity, even genocide. as i said earlier, eurojust is at the heart of the debate to store evidence, which will also be used in the context of prosecutions in the field of the crime of aggression, but for all these international crimes, eurojust stores evidence, exchanges with all prosecution bodies, whether in ukraine, in the member states or at the international criminal court. a whole series of actions are already under way. as you know, there are already convictions, about ten in ukraine, for war crimes. the international criminal court is ready to initiate such proceedings following its own investigations, and so are the member states. there should be no doubt about that. all these crimes are covered by a number of actions and it is clear that those responsible for these crimes must know for the rest of their lives that they may be brought to justice in one way or another. i would like to recall that the commission is also very clear about its commitment to work towards finding solutions to establish a court which can take the crime of aggression into account. we are working with the ukrainian authorities, the eu member states, the united nations and international partners. many have said this, but i said it myself earlier: if we are to be able to act in this area - for example, to deal with the problem of immunities that we are going to have to deal with - we need broad international support, and i have of course heard the remarks made about the need to obtain the support of the united nations as well. we are working on it, but as you know, the establishment of a special court for the crime of aggression raises not just technical questions but complex legal and political questions. we want this to be done without prejudice to the essential role of the international criminal court, as i have already stressed. we have asked, and the commission is asking, that partners ratify the rome statute. this is the case with ukraine, which we ask to ratify the rome statute, but we also ask as many states as possible to continue along this path and to ratify the rome statute, including with regard to the crime of aggression. as i said earlier, in the search for a solution to the establishment of this court, we have started work on a first stage. the first step is the establishment of an international prosecutor's office to start or continue the investigations, the investigations, to gather evidence of the crime of aggression, and there is already work on this. we are discussing the establishment of an international prosecutor's office with ukraine, eurojust, the international criminal court and the member states. i hope we can make rapid progress in this direction. the commission's resolve to move forward in the fight against impunity for all the types of crime i have just mentioned is very clear. for most of them, war crimes, crimes against humanity and even genocide crimes, we have the tools. as regards the crime of aggression, we will continue to work with all the partners i have just mentioned, but above all we will try to set up the first stage, this office of prosecution, this international office of prosecution, which we have been discussing regularly, for some time now, but day after day with the ukrainian authorities, the member states, the international criminal court and eurojust. thank you again for your support, but please differentiate between crimes for which we already have the capacity to try to bring those responsible to justice and the crime of aggression, for which we are trying to bring together enough actors to go in the same direction.
in writing. it is now almost a year since russia launched its illegal invasion of ukraine. it is very important that parliament now reaffirm its support for the establishment of a court to investigate the crime of aggression, war crimes and human rights violations committed by russia against ukraine. the special court is necessary for two reasons. first, the icc has no mandate to investigate crimes committed by russia, as russia is not a state party to the icc. the second option would be an investigation under the un security council mandate, but that is not possible either because of the russian veto. it is essential for the sake of international law, for the sake of the families and for the sake of post-war reconstruction that the war crimes committed in ukraine be investigated and that the perpetrators be held to account. the establishment of a court with a broad international mandate also sends a strong message to russia's political and economic leadership that a return to normal relations with the west is not possible without a full investigation of the crimes committed by russia. both the commission and parliament must now be strongly committed to the establishment of the court, led by the eu in cooperation with other institutions and the un. the eu must play a clear role in defending the rules-based international order in the face of a fundamentally changed security situation. it is relevant both to the eu's own security and to the global competition between democracies and authoritarian states.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for having added this debate to the agenda of the plenary. and like you said, i’m intervening today replacing high representative borrell, who unfortunately could not be present for this debate. i cannot begin my intervention without condemning once again the execution of alireza akbari last saturday. he was a british-iranian national, a citizen of europe. the european union and its member states were united in their response. the statement by high representative borrell, on behalf of the european union, condemned the execution in the strongest terms and called on the iranian authorities to pursue a consistent policy towards the abolition of capital punishment. the internal situation in iran continues to be a source of great concern. the current uprisings reveal deep frustration. the key demands of the current protests are respect for fundamental human rights, dignity and real change. however, the intensity of the protests seems to have decreased in the past weeks. this is probably also due to mass arrests and execution of protesters. the crackdown has now moved to the courtrooms, where harsh sentences, including death sentences, are used as a tool of repression. four protesters were executed, one of them publicly. capital punishment is an unacceptable denial of human dignity and integrity, and we aim at its universal abolition. as part of a strong and coordinated reaction, the european union and most member states summoned their respective iranian ambassadors last week to strongly demand an end to this unacceptable course of action. the people of iran, as anywhere else, have the right to peaceful protests. fundamental rights must be respected in all circumstances. it is still unclear how many people have been killed or arrested in connection with the protests. ngos estimate that at least 500 people have died. unofficial data speak of over 18 000 people arrested. reports of abuse and mistreatment perpetrated against protesters while in custody are also a matter of serious concern. this debate is a timely opportunity to discuss the response of the european union and its member states to the way the iranian regime is handling these protests, as well as to reflect on the way forward. the declaration of high representative borrell of 25 september 2022, issued on behalf of the 27 member states, and the ep resolution of 6 october 2022 testify to the quick reaction of the european union and its member states to any attempt to crack down on fundamental rights and freedoms. over the past three months, the council added 60 individuals and entities to the list of those subject to restrictive measures due to their role in the death of mahsa amini and the violent response to the ensuing demonstrations. and let me state clearly that this approach will continue as long as necessary, as outlined in the council conclusions adopted last december. at the same time, we welcome the establishment of a fact-finding mechanism by the un human rights council, as well as the appointment of its three experts. we now look forward to seeing the fact-finding mechanism at work. strengthening accountability for human rights violations across the world is at the core of our external policy approach. it is crucial that the european union and its member states continue to send strong and clear messages to iran in line with what has been done so far. iran will feature again on the agenda of the upcoming foreign affairs council. and i assure you that all options for the european union to respond to events in iran remain on the table. i thank you, of course, for your attention, and i look forward to our debate and to receiving your observations and proposals.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, it is clear that the response to the protests and executions in iran cannot be a routine appeal. it must be a firm act and at the same time a strategy that is sustained over time and well defined, both from the political and legal point of view. what is happening in iran is the intersection between excessive internal repression and destabilizing activity by the iranian regime that goes beyond the regional level. iran is a very serious threat to international peace and security and is a cruel regime that we know has no legal, political or moral restraints when it comes to attacking its own citizens. we must therefore present a position of maximum unity in this parliament - and that is what we are striving for in the resolution which must close this debate - and a very solid commitment. we need to continue to express solidarity and support, but we need to keep moving forward. both the regime and its leaders must know that their actions, these unjust executions, among others, have consequences, that there are guilty people and that these responsibilities are not going to be forgotten, but are going to be demanded. the revolutionary guards, which is the real backbone of the regime, must be included in the european union's list of terrorist organizations, we must increase the effectiveness in the implementation of sanctions, we must provide support to iranians inside and outside the country, making it possible to protect exiles and refugees from the especially threatened minorities, and we must strengthen diplomatic initiatives and facilitate communications and contacts that the regime wants to suppress by blocking the internet. and we must express with all our strength our commitment to achieve the freedom and safe return home of all european citizens detained and subjected to the arbitrariness of the theocratic regime.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, yes, and in french too: women, life, freedom. and it was here in strasbourg that the cry of the women of sanandaj, zahedan and tehran was heard yesterday. about 15,000 people gathered from all over europe for the women, for iran and against the pasdaran, these guardians of the revolution who are nothing but the armed arm of repression. mohammad karami, seyed hosseini and ali akbari were hanged this week because behind these women, there is a whole people who are rising up and shaking the regime. the revolution, as you said, mr commissioner, is taking off and demands of us, now more than ever, unwavering solidarity on the sanctions first, targeted at the highest level: the supreme leader, the president, the guardians of the revolution, which we must place on the terrorist organization. and then there are our hostages, 25 europeans, including the belgian olivier vandecasteele, imprisoned without cause and condemned in a show of justice. i'm wrapping this up. madam president, i have to ask you. the extreme difficulty here is to be at the same time at the rendezvous of women and history and at the one set for us by our hostages. in a truly political europe, it is the countries that must negotiate together to achieve their liberation.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner, four young men have been executed for their involvement in the peaceful protest in iran following the death of jina ‘mahsa’ amini. all of them were subject to expedited trials that did not meet the minimum guarantees of a fair trial and due process, and in some cases their families were only informed of their execution after it happened. those are the first of another 26 protesters whom the iranian authorities are currently seeking to impose the death penalty. the disproportionate crackdown on protesters in iran has reached unprecedented levels of violence and disregard for human life. hundreds of peaceful protesters have been killed by iranian security forces and thousands more have been arrested. the iranian regime should be held accountable for the killing of its own people. the systemic impunity of the iranian government, the irgc and its security apparatus cannot continue to be the rule. this is why we should continue to impose targeted sanctions and to significantly enlarge those and to have a better implementation of those to all those people involved in the violent crackdown on those peaceful protesters, but also to insist on the need for an independent investigation with international organisations on these violations and to prosecute the perpetrators. tomorrow, i am very happy that parliament will speak with one strong voice by approving a very strong text of solidarity with the people of iran. the people of iran deserve not only our solidarity and support, but also justice, respect and dignity.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, more than 4,000 kilometres from here, terror and fear are trying to bury the hope born of a desire for freedom. despite the extreme harshness of the regime, many women are walking around without this prison that is the veil all over the country. taking all the risks, the protesters decided to show that iran is not only the result of the islamic revolution of 1979, but also that civilization that once celebrated as many goddesses as gods and that did not always slap women. this great hope of freedom, we must support it. we must banish the hypocrisy that is too often, if not always, in our institutions. shame on those who are able to make themselves women's liberators in iran, but promoters of the islamic veil in europe. shame on those who advocate emancipation there, but play the game of oppression here. shame on those who support the freedom of iranian women, but allow the submission of french, belgian, german, dutch women to islamic law to settle in our cities and neighborhoods. the long civilization we inherit guarantees equality between men and women and offers unparalleled freedom in space and time. it is therefore more important than ever to preserve what we are, to be aware of the invaluable opportunity that our culture offers our fellow citizens, and how fragile it can be if it is not ardently defended.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, iran, that's already very clear, is one of the worst enemies of freedom in the world. he's been a priest for 40 years. all opposition has been silenced in blood and violence and its years of existence are counted by slaughter. that's been the case, as i say, for a long time. and yet europe has always been in a position of compromise, looking for ways to do business when others warned about the brutal threat that is iran, which has always been iran. and iran right now has the entire region hijacked, it has syria, it has hezbollah in lebanon, it has half of iraq hijacked and de facto occupied, and it continues to expand. it is a country which has been helping russia in its war of aggression against ukraine and has been heavily involved in latin america, where it is involved in illegal mining, drug trafficking, money laundering and in the whole network of the são paulo forum and the puebla group. that is what the socialists and communists here do not like to talk about, because we know the relationship between them and these iranian partners. we must now go to the punishment of iran directly. it is not valid with new visits by mr borrell, as was the case with mrs mogherini's visits to tehran shortly after the killings. we have to go to the outlaw, to the terrorist list for everything that is the revolutionary guard. we must demand a radical investigation and, of course, put an end to this attempt to build bridges and to cut off the negotiations on the cap.
madam president, dear colleagues, we must not stay silent on what is happening in iran. people are dying fighting for freedom, and the actions of the iranian regime are twilight of humanity. that punishment and torture are weaponised on people that are exercising their basic rights. the iranian regime is brutal, cynical and barbaric. in their desperation and increased isolation, the regime is even using technology and facial recognition for repression of its citizens. moreover, we can only condemn their drone—based partnership with russian invaders in ukraine. we have to continue to strongly support the iranian people. it is crucial to call for decisive eu response, and the revolutionary guard must be put on the list of terror organisations. our message to the regime needs to be loud and clear: stop killing your people.
madam president, dear commissioner, the iranian revolutionary guard corps (irgc) has conducted many illegal hostages and killings, of course, in iran, but increasingly on european soil. members of the irgc nonetheless send their children to study here in europe. social media platforms in europe are being flooded with outrageous irgc propaganda. and the irgc holds financial assets here across this continent. and this will luckily all end soon. this house wants the irgc to be labelled a terrorist organisation. this house will vote to impose costs on the irgc and by doing so we demonstrate our support to the brave iranian people. but let this also be a signal to so many chinese companies like huawei, on the brink of helping iran develop an even more brutal surveillance state, to even further suppress the iranian people, and to russia, buying irgc drones, selling them su-35 fighter jets – this cannot be without consequences. the dangerous ideology of the irgc has no place here in europe, and ‘zan, zendegi, azadi’ starts with putting and listing the irgc as a terrorist organisation.
madam president, mohamad and sayed, two young men aged 21 and 26, were executed after being beaten and tortured for protesting against the iranian government. ali reza, a british-iranian citizen, was hanged for espionage. dozens of protesters have been convicted and are awaiting execution. hundreds of people have died in protests to raise their voices against the violent death of mahsa amini, who was not wearing the veil as she was supposed to wear it. the use of the death penalty against protesters and dissidents is not new in iran. nor is there violence, systematic discrimination against women, lgbtqi people, women human rights defenders or ethnic and religious minorities. impunity has been and is total. for the journalists nilufar and elahe, arrested for reporting; for nasrin, a lawyer and women's rights defender, sentenced to 38 years in prison and 148 lashes; for those who continue to risk their lives in the fight for human rights; for all of them, we will stand. admiration, respect and solidarity with the iranian people.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, the iranian regime is a threat to the inside and to the outside, and it has been a threat to its own people, to the region, especially to israel and to the world, actually, for many, many years. and the free world has done a lot in order to seek the one or the other opportunity to calm down the tensions within iran and to calm down iran as a player on the global scene. but it didn’t happen. it became even worse. it is no surprise that those regimes who harm their own people, those regimes who harm others, those regimes who follow ideologies of hatred, align more and more on this planet, and when it comes to iran and russia, the iranian regime and the russian regime, we see this very clear picture. this is why it’s important to support the freedom movement within iran. this is why it’s important to strengthen the sanctions we have already in place towards the iranian regime, because this regime is rotten, morally rotten. no matter what they present to the world or what they try to present the world, it’s a morally rotten regime of criminals.
madam president, we are horrified to see the executions, the murders, by the iranian regime of young protesters, the pain of their families, the anguish of those 26 protesters who are awaiting their death sentence. but we know that the death penalty is not a new situation in iran. just before the protests, this country was the first country in the world to execute women. but this is why we cannot stand by and watch this terror, this horror, and we must strengthen our sanctions against the iranian regime. that is why we call in this resolution for the designation of the islamic revolutionary guard as a terrorist organization, as it is. we already sanctioned their members individually in 2019, but they should receive this qualification. and we must prioritize women, the women who, with their cry of "women, life and freedom", are at the forefront of the protests. they also have to be at the forefront of the international community's responses. and they need concrete action. they need emergency visas to protect their lives. they need much more force and firmness from europe.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it has been four months, four months since the assassination of mahsa amini. four months that women - especially women, at the risk of their lives - young people and the iranian people have been demonstrating for a revolution. a revolution with extraordinary courage. a revolution of the minds, a revolution of the hearts, a revolution of the bodies. a political revolution for democracy and for freedoms. a revolution against a corrupt regime that oppresses, tortures, murders, condemns to death and executes. a revolution against a regime that's afraid of women. a regime that's afraid of men. a regime that's afraid of the young. a regime that fears liberties and turns its fears into terror against the iranian people. it is time to defend the life forces in iran, as we intend to do with this resolution. but to defend the life forces in iran, we must sanction the militias with death. and the death squads are the bodyguards of the revolution. it's the most rotten branch of a corrupt regime. while this parliament is doing its job, it is time for the commission and the council to do theirs to sanction this regime.
madam president, ‘women, life, freedom’. these protests that were started by kurdish woman have grown to a revolution. women and men in iran are showing extreme courage. the protests have grown to an enormous mobilisation. people are continuing to protest, risking their lives and freedom, for freedom. the regime has answered with only violence. protesters are being jailed, tortured and even executed. death penalties are handed down and executions are carried out. it is a horrendous situation. ethnic minorities are being persecuted – not least kurdish minorities, including women and lgbtqi people. yesterday there was a big demonstration here outside the european parliament in strasbourg. people are asking us to do more, to stand by the protesters, to stand with all those that are brave enough to stand up against the regime. and we will continue to do all we can. we have to stop the executions. we have to achieve the abolishment of the death penalty. we have to stop deportations from our own member states back to iran. we have to sanction those key actors who repress the population. we will have to continue to stand with the brave population as long as it takes.
madam president, iran's human rights record is appalling and desolate. we know that there has always been a systematic violation of fundamental rights in the country: lack of freedoms, persecution of minorities, systematic use of arbitrary detentions, torture, extrajudicial executions... but now more than ever, we want to raise our voice in the face of the brutal response of the iranian regime to the protests that are calling for freedom in the country after the murder of young mahsa amini by the islamic morality police. but the question here is: what do we do, what do europeans do, what is our response going to be? and we want to call for a change in the foreign policy of the european union and its member states towards iran, an extension of the sanctions policy against those responsible for the brutal repression in that country. and above all, we want to send a message to the young people and women who are today the protagonists of the protests in the country: we will not leave you alone, we will not leave you alone, we will be there to accompany you so that the country opens a new stage of freedom in the name of the women who are protesting today in iran for their future.
i have to say, madam president, for four months now, people in iran have been risking their lives fighting for their rights. it is our duty to support the revolution with all available means. stability and peace in the middle east will only come when the mullah regime is finally overthrown. there will be no security for israel unless the anti-semitic regime is replaced by a democracy. the terrorizing of protesters must finally end. all executions must be stopped immediately. the revolutionary guards must be put on the terrorist list, and the jcpoa has no future. for yina, for nika, for fardin, for amrin, for majidreza and mohsen, for all those who are being tortured, killed, executed: stop killing your people. women, life, freedom. you know what?
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members, the debate today testifies that we all share the same concerns regarding the human rights situation in iran and shows our strong determination to react promptly to any attempt to crack down on fundamental rights and freedoms. the high representative follows the iranian fight personally, and iran is on the agenda at the next foreign affairs council. the european union and its member states will continue to speak up and act. the council will consider all the options at its disposal, including new restrictive measures relating to the islamic revolutionary guards. at the same time, as eu representatives, we will continue to use every opportunity in all direct exchanges with the iranian authorities to convey our unequivocal stance on human rights and demand full respect for the fundamental rights of iranian citizens. concerning the detention of dual national and eu citizens in iran, we work in close coordination with the member states involved. we are using every opportunity to express our firmest disapproval to the iranian authorities towards the disturbing and unacceptable growing number of cases involving eu citizens arbitrarily detained. vous avez mentionné la situation du citoyen belge olivier vandecasteele. nous sommes en contact avec les autorités belges qui ont la responsabilité consulaire dans cette situation et nous soutenons complètement les efforts consulaires mis en œuvre par chaque état membre placé dans une telle situation. at the same time, we are using every opportunity and every channel of communication with iran to express our firmest disappointment towards a growing number of cases involving eu citizens. we will continue to work to support the iranian population and will try also to continue to support european citizens detained in iran. thank you again for your determination and for your support.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, dear members of the european parliament, thank you for this debate where i am taking the floor again, standing in for the high representative / vice president, josep borrell, who could not be present this evening. 2023 will be an important year for the eu’s relations with latin america and the caribbean. the region is too often approached through the prism of crises and upheavals. we are following closely developments in brazil, haiti, peru, bolivia and venezuela, among others. however, at this geopolitical juncture, we should have a broader strategic perspective for the region. this is the focus of this debate. the pandemic, geopolitical tensions, the war against ukraine and challenges in the region reinforce the need for a qualitative leap in our relationship. on both sides of the atlantic, we want to strengthen our autonomy. in economic terms, for instance, we all want to avoid excessive dependencies and diversify value chains. but autonomy does not mean isolation. we need cooperation and agreements with reliable economic and political partners to face the three challenges of the 21st century: climate change, the technological revolution and social cohesion. my main message today is that, in these turbulent and unpredictable times, latin america and the eu need each other more than ever. we start from solid foundations. latin america and the caribbean is a region of the world with which we have one of the densest networks of agreements, 27 out of 33 countries. the european union is the third-largest destination for exports coming from the region, and the first investor in the region. the european union, together with its member states, is also the largest contributor of development aid. let me also recall the nearly unanimous condemnation by the states of the region of russia’s aggression against ukraine in the united nations general assembly. the latin american and caribbean countries and the eu countries together represent more than a third of the united nations. we share values, culture, languages, deep political economic and family ties, and we must look to our future together. that is why the european union has proposed a new road map 2023. it is based on four lines of action in which you, as parliamentarians, also have an important role to play. first, stepping up the political dialogue. last october, the first bi-regional ministerial meeting since 2018 took place in buenos aires, co-chaired by josep borrell. we agreed on a joint road map until the end of 2023, including the organisation of a bi-regional summit, the first since 2015. a europe-led parliamentary assembly is highlighted in the roadmap as a key element of the democratic debate. second, line of action – advancing with the eu agreements with the region. after the recent conclusion of negotiations for the modernisation of the agreement with chile, we must try to finalise the one with mexico, ensure the full ratification of the agreement with central america, complete the agreement with mercosur, and move towards the signing of the post-cotonou agreement with the caribbean. third, we need to strengthen our alliance on shared political priorities and on major global challenges that we need to tackle together. the green and digital transitions, of course, but also social cohesion. the twin green and digital transitions will either be democratic and fair order, or they will not be. we must not leave anyone behind. economic growth is not enough. the eu’s global gateway will accompany this new agenda, supporting sustainable investment that reinforces our connections and help to strengthen our resilience. co-investment is offered in digital, green, health, transport, education and research areas, always on the basis of core values and advanced social and environmental standards. this distinguishes the european model from others. fourth, and perhaps most importantly, the promotion of peace, democracy and human rights. democracy is in decline around the world. if we want to defeat autocratic threats and improve our democracies as spaces of freedom and justice, we must cooperate and join forces with other democracies. we cannot forget that latin american societies are suffering in the face of poverty, inequality and violence. it is estimated that one in three latin americans are living in poverty and one in six is in extreme poverty. defending democracy also means enhancing our work together in favour of inclusive, just and sustainable development. in short, this region is much more than an economic partner and a market of growing importance. it is a region where crucial eu interests are at stake for the coming decades. i thank the european parliament for its support for this vision and the need to reinforce all ties with latin america and the caribbean at all levels.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, i would clearly like to congratulate the high representative on the european commission's renewed commitment to re-establishing the latin american region as one of its priorities. we acknowledge the efforts made by the commission since the beginning of its mandate to achieve this objective. as mr borrell said, latin america is much more than an economic and commercial partner. there is no region in the world with which the union shares so much in terms of culture and history. we must not forget the legacy to the americas of parts of the old continent whose values of democracy and human rights are the fundamental pillars of our union. that is why, at the next summit of the european union and celac, scheduled for this year, we are calling for a renewed commitment to this region, where social inequalities are a breeding ground for the growth of populism and autocracies, and to be able to contribute to stability on the basis of respect, freedom, dignity and the rule of law. that is why we offer you our full support to achieve this.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr commissioner, from here, from the european parliament, we welcome the high representative's roadmap to 2023 as an expression of the will and the need to strengthen and commit to our strategic relations with latin america, because we share values, because we have enormous complementarity and because we also need each other to protect our autonomy in the world and address the great global challenges. why are relations between latin america and europe important? because they are necessary to rebuild multilateralism, to defend democracies in the world, as two democratic blocs, to ensure fair growth based on fair trade, to deal with the energy crisis that europe is suffering today, to deal with the food crisis that the world is suffering today, or to avoid a bipolar world. for all this, relations between the european union and latin america are necessary. that is why we want this road map to become a reality, we want to use the eu-celac summit to discuss these policies and we want to complete the necessary association agreements with mexico, chile and mercosur in the remainder of the european mandate, because the future of the world is also at stake in these relations.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr reynders, at the end of last year, mr borrell pushed forward the roadmap to 2023 to strengthen relations between europe and latin america. well, it's now 2023. what's the next move? what do we have to do? well, do all the things we haven't done in three and a half years. and then we're in a hurry, because we only have a year left. and then, because we're in a hurry, we have a year left and we have to do all the things we didn't do, what's the priority? the eu-mercosur agreement is ratified. i repeat: ratify the eu-mercosur agreement. that is key and it is our primary obligation. no more excuses. the french elections are over, the german elections are over, the brazilian elections are over. we already have a french president and we already have a brazilian president. there is lula. what's the problem now? well, believe it or not. because that is what mr borrell has always defended. does the commission as a whole support it? i don't know, man. it would be convenient for you to do so. why would you do that? because 2023 has to be the year of latin america and, for that, the eu-mercosur agreement must be ratified.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner, in latin america, the rule of law is under attack, the democratic space is shrinking, journalists and human rights defenders are threatened and corruption is widespread. extreme poverty makes every day a struggle. in particular in central america, the security situation is extremely worrying and to combat the gangs, we have seen how state of emergencies have been introduced. these policies have legitimated more militarisation of the public security, which has led to human rights violations such as arbitrary detentions, torture and even deaths in prison. here, in our exchanges, we should not only focus on sanctions but also on prevention and social rehabilitation. as we work hard to defend democracy, fundamental rights, disinformation, equality and the environment in the eu, we should be coherent and promote the same values towards our partners, building a mutual partnership that is based not only on trade deals, but also on cooperation and development.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, this roadmap for 2023 is being announced with great fanfare so that we can unite and achieve that leap that is wanted after thirty years of passivity with ibero-america. ibero-america has huge problems, colossal problems, which have only gotten worse. they have been aggravated by poverty, by the lack of democracy, by the systematic destruction of weak democracies and the arrival of regimes; all of them in the same direction - as we have seen in recent years - one after another, all of them narco-communists, all of them from the são paulo forum, all of them from the puebla group, in which the socialists and the spanish communists are also. which country was the most effective in fighting poverty in latin america? chile. what happened to chile? destroy it and take it to venezuela. what have they done with colombia? to take it the way of venezuela, the way of nicaragua. what have they done with brazil? everybody applauding: take it the way of venezuela. if that's the future, we're going down the wrong path.
in writing. the roadmap to 2023 strategy represents a qualitative leap forward in relations between the european union and latin america and the caribbean. this strategy advocates revitalizing and boosting, given the new geopolitical reality, the bi-regional relations taking into account aspects such as the necessary green and digital transitions, the implications of the pandemic, the growing chinese presence and influence and the consequences of the war in ukraine. the eu is convinced of the need to strengthen relations with a region that is a strategic ally in defending common values and interests, a key partner in multilateral fora to address global challenges, and an important trading and investment partner.
in writing. the eu is defining a strategy to boost industrial competitiveness, trade and quality jobs in the face of the race for subsidies at international level, such as the us with the inflation reduction act or china, in a changing global context of energy dependence, war in ukraine, rising prices and revision of the state aid framework. the s&d group welcomes the green deal industrial plan, announced by the european commission as a response for industry, with the net zero emission industry law and the european sovereignty fund. we welcome the proposals to accelerate and make europe's green and digital industry more competitive, with an emphasis on the skills of workers. coordinated and joint european action is needed to avoid individual member states' actions which end up undermining industrial competitiveness and increasing the differences between them. however, these measures remain lacking in specificity, despite their urgency, and we therefore call for them to be clarified and developed with speed, sufficient resources, involving the european parliament and taking into account the social implications and dimensions to ensure the eu's open strategic autonomy with social justice.
in writing. the eu is defining a strategy to boost industrial competitiveness, trade and quality jobs in the face of the race for subsidies at international level, such as the us with the inflation reduction act or china, in a changing global context of energy dependence, war in ukraine, rising prices and revision of the state aid framework. the s&d group welcomes the green deal industrial plan, announced by the european commission as a response for industry, with the net zero emission industry law and the european sovereignty fund. we welcome the proposals to accelerate and make europe's green and digital industry more competitive, with an emphasis on the skills of workers. coordinated and joint european action is needed to avoid individual member states' actions which end up undermining industrial competitiveness and increasing the differences between them. however, these measures remain lacking in specificity, despite their urgency, and we therefore call for them to be clarified and developed with speed, sufficient resources, involving the european parliament and taking into account the social implications and dimensions to ensure the eu's open strategic autonomy with social justice.
in writing. today, the eu is at a crossroads. the us is eroding european competitiveness by taking measures to protect itself from inflation, and china is pursuing its plans for economic expansion. caught between two economic giants, the eu must act with intelligence and speed. now we don't need bellicose declarations, the start of trade wars, protectionist measures, a competition of subsidies. we already have trade defence mechanisms, and from now on we need to put in place as many free trade agreements as possible so that we can ensure the resilience of our supply chains, which is absolutely necessary for a healthy industry. we must stop the frenzy of over-regulation that is suffocating industry, smes and private initiative. we need to reduce the administrative burden and strengthen the european framework to encourage investment and the business environment. the new european industrial strategy must take account of the principle of solidarity: no member state should be left behind. we must eliminate the distortions which are today fuelling the fragmentation of the common market. i will continue to act, together with my colleagues in the epp group and the entire sme europe team, in support of european smes, the backbone of the economies of the european union.
pursuant to rule 158(2) and following discussions in the conference of presidents, i would like to propose to the house to postpone to the part-session of 1 and 2 february the plenary votes on the decision of the empl committee to enter into negotiations on the basis of the report on improving working conditions in platform work, and the report by mr radtke on revision of the european works councils directive that were scheduled for tomorrow, thursday 19 january. would there be any objections to that? i see that is not the case. we will postpone them and the changes are adopted. the rest of the votes will take place.
also at today’s meeting of the conference of presidents which just ended, there was a decision to extend the term of office of the special committee on the covid-19 pandemic: lessons learned and recommendations for the future, the term of office of the committee of inquiry to investigate the use of pegasus and equivalent surveillance spyware, and the special committee on foreign interference in all democratic processes in the european union, including disinformation, for a three—month period. these extensions were necessary on account of the work that still needs to be done to allow the special committees and the committee of inquiry to fulfil fully and correctly their mandate. if no objections are raised in the following 24 hours, these extensions will be deemed to be approved. otherwise these extensions will, at a later date, be put to the vote in plenary.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
the next item is the election of a vice-president of the european parliament to replace eva kaili. i would like to remind you that, pursuant to rule 20 of parliament’s rules of procedure, the newly elected vice-president shall take the place of his or her predecessor in the order of precedence. for the election to be held for a vice-president to replace ms kaili, i have received the nominations of marc angel, nominated by the s&d group, gwendoline delbos—corfield, nominated by the green group, and annalisa tardino, nominated by the id group. the candidates have confirmed to me their consent to their candidacies. as the number of candidates exceeds the number of seats to be filled, we shall hold a secret ballot in accordance with rule 17(1) of the rules of procedure. the ballot will take place electronically. let me also remind members of the provisions of rule 17(1): ‘the vice-presidents shall [...] be elected on a single ballot. those who on the first ballot, up to the number of 14, secure an absolute majority of the votes cast shall be declared to have been elected in order of the number of votes obtained. if the number of candidates elected is less than the number of seats to be filled, a second ballot shall be held under the same conditions to fill the remaining seats. if a third ballot is necessary, a relative majority shall suffice for election [...]. in the event of a tie, the oldest [candidate] shall be declared to have been elected.’ blank or void ballots will not be regarded as votes cast. as we have done in the past, we shall first hold a dummy vote to ensure that everybody is familiar with the electronic voting system. (a dummy vote was held)we shall now hold the election for the vice—president replacing eva kaili. i remind you that you can vote for one candidate or you can abstain, but you cannot vote against a candidate. (the vote was held) members voting: 648; abstentions: 93; votes cast: 555; absolute majority needed: 278. the results are as follows: marc angel – 263; annalisa tardino – 179; gwendoline delbos—corfield – 113. this means that no candidate has obtained an absolute majority of the votes cast and a second ballot will be necessary. i need to ask whether any of the candidates will withdraw. if not, i take it that the candidates in the first ballot are still standing. that seems to be the case, and therefore the candidates in the first ballot will also stand in the second ballot. also for the second ballot in accordance with rule 17(1), in order to be elected a candidate must obtain an absolute majority of the votes cast. blank or void ballots will not be regarded as votes cast. (the vote was held) members voting: 645; abstentions: 55; votes cast: 590; absolute majority needed: 296. the results are as follows: marc angel – 307; annalisa tardino – 185; gwendoline delbos—corfield – 98. that means that marc angel has been elected vice-president of the european parliament. congratulations to mr angel. (applause)
madam president, dear colleagues, i would like to propose an oral amendment to amendment 15, which should be inserted at the beginning of the text of paragraph 35 and read like this: ‘stresses the need to increase civil military coordination and cooperation at eu level’.
there is opposition, so the amendment cannot be taken.
thank you for that. however, and this will happen to all groups, if there is opposition that was expressed – because mr złotowski said it and i heard him – then that happens, so that is in the context of the vote as had already been in motion. therefore the oral amendment cannot be taken, and we vote on amendment 15 as originally tabled.
(members of the house sing ‘happy birthday’ to the president) president. – i’m sorry, i’m not very good with these things. i tend to blush. thank you very much! congratulations to marc angel. thank you very much to all of you. this has been a difficult week. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
author. madam president, commissioner reynders, spain is suffering from a worrying trend of democratic degradation, institutional deterioration and governmental irresponsibility caused by the latest decisions of the current spanish government. we are bringing this matter because the defence of the rule of law, of our institutions and of judicial independence is the responsibility of this parliament. we cannot be silent while this government is trading with spain, making concessions to those who seek to destroy the country itself. the whole country cannot be identified with its current government. a government that has handed over the penal code to those convicted of attempting to violate the constitution, modifying it to the letter to make their crimes disappear. a government that has abolished the crime of sedition, the crime that in spain protects the state against coups against our democratic system. a government that has also reduced the penalties for embezzlement, the crime that protects against corruption. a government that has pushed a law that, far from protecting women, is causing a cascade of reduced sentences and releases for sexual offenders. to date, one hundred and ninety convicted sex offenders have benefited and, as if it were not enough, have ended up placing a minister and a high-ranking official of the current government in the constitutional court. all this is being done by a government that boasted of being the government of transparency, of exemplarity and of anti-corruption. commissioner reynders, the european people's party believes that the general council of the judiciary should be renewed and that the model should be reformed, something the government does not want. ladies and gentlemen, we must be clear: criminals cannot dictate the orders to reform the criminal code. institutions cannot be in the service of the government and sexual abusers cannot benefit from the incompetence of the government. the democratic and institutional strength of the countries and the protection of the citizens are key to the future of the european union and, as you will understand, the european people's party will not look the other way while all this is happening. spain is a great nation, a full democracy and a profoundly european country and we cannot tolerate a bad government damaging all that we spaniards have achieved together.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for putting this debate on the rule of law in spain on the agenda. we need to protect democracy and the rule of law across the european union more than ever, and the commission has stepped up its efforts in this regard. the annual rule of law report plays, as you know, a central role in this area. in july last year, the commission published the third edition of the report, which for the first time includes specific recommendations for all member states. i would like to expand on our recommendations on the rule of law in spain and also address some recent developments. in relation to the spanish justice system, the 2022 rule of law report highlights that the renewal of the council for the judiciary has been pending since the end of 2018. in this context, there have been further calls to modify the appointment system in the council in line with european standards. in particular, the commission has recommended to spain to proceed with the renewal of the council for the judiciary as a matter of priority. we also recommend to initiate, immediately after such renewal, a process in view of adapting the appointment of the judge members to take into account european standards. we continue to call on all parties concerned to take the necessary actions for the successful implementation of this recommendation. in relation to the prosecutor general, the 2022 rule of law report refers to legal amendments adopted in spain, which aim to increase the transparency of its relations with the government. however, the commission has noted that concerns remain because the terms of office of the prosecutor general and of the government coincide. the commission has therefore recommended strengthening the statutes of the prosecutor general, in particular with regard to avoiding such coincidence of the terms of office. as regards the quality of the spanish justice system, the report acknowledges progress in several areas, such as measures facilitating access to justice for persons with disabilities, the ongoing reform of the code of criminal procedure, and the fact that the digitisation of justice is progressing. the launch of proceedings remains a challenge in spain. work is ongoing on draft laws to enhance the organizational, procedural and digital efficiency of the justice system. as regards the anti-corruption framework, the report underlines that work is ongoing to adopt a law on the transparency and integrity of interest groups. the commission has encouraged spain to continue these efforts, in particular with the establishment of a mandatory public register for lobbyists. we understand that since the publication of the report, a law has been tabled to this end which is currently being discussed in the spanish parliament. the report also acknowledges that resources have been increased for the prosecution services. at the same time, we also highlight that the investigation and prosecution of high-level corruption remains a concern as proceedings continue to be lengthy and complex. the commission has therefore recommended to spain to pay specific attention to this challenge. as regards media freedom and pluralism, a law on audiovisual communication was adopted attributing new competences to the audiovisual regulator. in this context, the commission has recommended to ensure adequate resources for this regulator to enable it to carry out its functions properly. work is also ongoing to strengthen access to information. in this context, the commission has encouraged spain to continue work on the revision of the law on official secrets in order to make access to official information easier for journalists and citizens in general. we understand that, last august, the government presented a first draft of the law on classified information that will replace the law on official secrets, and that this text is now in the phase of consultation with stakeholders. moreover, a draft law for the protection of the professional secrecy of journalism was presented last december. the government has also continued the implementation of an agreement aimed at facilitating the work of media professionals. we also noted that journalists are still facing some challenges. finally, when it comes to checks and balances, the report reflects that several constitutional bodies, including the ombudsman, saw their members appointed by the spanish parliament. the report also refers to the efforts that the government is undertaking, with several initiatives aimed at increasing public participation in policy-making. moreover, actions aimed at reinforcing cooperation between the public administration and civil society are being taken. moreover, a number of developments have been taking place after the publication of the report. the commission is aware that a legal proposal has been tabled in the spanish parliament to amend some aspects of the appointment of members of the constitutional court. in this context, interim measures were taken by the constitutional court suspending the vote of this proposal in the senate. we are also aware that in the meantime, in december last year, four new members of the constitutional court were appointed - two by the government and two by the council for the judiciary. those appointments were pending since june 2022. these appointments are important as the functioning of constitutional organs is an essential element of the rule of law. according to the information available to the commission, a reform of the spanish criminal code has been approved in parliament. this reform introduced changes to several crimes, including the crime of embezzlement. the commission is currently analysing these new provisions to verify the compliance of this reform with eu law, notably with regard to the protection of eu financial interests. the commission will continue to follow these developments in the context of the preparation of our 2023 rule of law report. i want to insist on the fact that in the 2023 rule of law report, we will, of course, assess the implementation of the recommendations and, as said, we have asked as a matter of priority for the renewal of the national council for the judiciary, and then to start immediately after the process for a reform. it is an important element that i myself mentioned during my visit to spain at the end of september, if i remember correctly, last year. i am sure that it is very important to continue to work on it because the top bodies of the judiciaries are the most important pieces to organize a real promotion, protection of the rule of law, but also to have a very good perception in the population about the independence of the judiciary. i thank you for your attention. thanks for the debate and, of course, i am looking forward to listening to your speeches and your remarks.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear commissioner, we are deeply concerned about the situation of the rule of law in spain. we are used to speaking here about hungary and poland, and rightly so. but the measures that the spanish government has taken in the last year – and in the last years – are very, very concerning. we cannot forget that the consejo general del poder judicial, the judicial council, is totally paralysed by decisions of the government. that the minister of education has not implemented decisions of the high court on catalonia. that there are pardons and amnesties for people that were condemned by the high court. and that the crime of sedition was totally changed, and that of misuse of public funds also. and this means that these laws – that were made in a procedure that was accelerated and not consensual – these laws are ‘photo laws’. they were done, they were approved, to favour people whose names and faces we know. they are totally unconstitutional. and by the way, about the constitutional court, commissioner: please don’t forget that a minister and someone that was very close to the government were nominated to be judges of the constitutional court. and the problem is not that they are former ministers. the problem is that they were members of this government, of this majority. i have never seen this in all of europe: nominating to the constitutional court someone that was a member, a minister of the government. this is totally against the rule of law. i have never seen this. and i regret that a country like spain – which was a role model for all of us, with its democratic transition – is now at stake in this problem of independence, of judicial power. this is, i would say, a shame for us, because we used to admire the democratic model of spain and its respect for the rule of law.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner reynders, for those of us who have the honour of representing citizens in this european parliament, any six-monthly presidency of our country in the current year is a precious occasion to show unity in a europeanist commitment based on shared country objectives. gentlemen of the popular party, are you not ashamed of your miserable failure to take this opportunity to show your opposition to the spanish government? who are you trying to fool by hiding the fact that the problem identified in the commission's reports on the rule of law in relation to spain is the blockade, the hijacking of the constitutional organs which require parliamentary majorities of three-fifths 'qualified', therefore for their renewal? the worst example is the general council of the judicial power, which is a governing body of the judiciary, blocked, this year 2023, for five years by the exclusive responsibility of the popular party, which does not accept the results of the polls. five years in which the popular party has tried to perpetuate the absolute majority it had in 2011, but lost in 2015, makes the friolera, this 2023, eight years. they're not fooling anybody. they do so in grave prejudice to the judiciary, the administration of justice and the fundamental rights of citizenship, including access to judicial protection for citizens, which is being harmed by the blockade and the seizure of the general council of the judiciary. i would add, mr president, that the european idea of democracy requires that you govern with the majority you have in the parliament of the member state, respecting minorities. yes, the european idea of democracy requires that we know how to govern with respect for minorities, but there is something even more important: the european idea of democracy requires that we know how to lose by recognising the result when you lose the elections and the people's party has not known how to lose and that is the origin of the problem. he has not been able to lose the elections and, therefore, is sliding down the same slope as the followers of trump and bolsonaro - we have to regret here that we never heard them criticize them - that they have not been able to lose, they have not been able to recognize the result of the polls. european democracy requires that we recognize the result, that we know how to lose. but let's not lose hope, you still have a chance to learn how to lose after nothing less than forty years of coexistence in the spanish constitutional democracy, tasting defeat again this december 2023.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, if i were to tell you about a european president who disobeys, breaks laws and court rulings, who appoints his minister of justice as the state's attorney general, whose government partners accuse judges and magistrates of the constitutional court of being coup-makers in a gown for enforcing the law, who causes three of the four judicial associations to write a letter to mr reynders accusing this government of threatening the rule of law, if i were to say that there is a president who wants to change the appointment majorities of members of the judiciary illegally, who pardons politicians convicted of sedition and embezzlement, yes, who reforms the penal code to suit him so that they also do not have a disqualification cost, who do you think i am talking about? orbán's? what is it? no, by pedro sanchez. pedro sanchez, yeah, he is. the facts. i know you don't like to hear them, but that's the way they are. but i will tell you one thing: spain is not pedro sanchez, nor his government, nor the socialist party, nor his separatist and communist accomplices. you have to get that into their heads, don't get it wrong. spain has endured a coup d'état by its partners and will be able to endure the abuses of the rule of law that you provoke, because its government is the main threat to equality before the law - a basic principle, the equality of every citizen before the law - and to respect for the judiciary and the separation of powers. you are. but remember this: you said in 1985 that montesquieu was dead, but we will not allow pedro sanchez, his government or you to bury him.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, the people's party is bringing us a debate on the rule of law in spain today. i believe that the problems of the rule of law in spain in recent years have been twofold: corruption, with hundreds of elected offices of the popular party, with a very serious damage to the institutional functioning of our country; and, secondly, the boycott of the popular party, because when they do not win the elections they decide that the normal institutional functioning and the application of the constitution are no longer valid, because either they govern or the constitution is no longer applied. and that is why there are six members of the general council of the judiciary whose mandate has expired, which causes serious damage to the institutional functioning of our judiciary. now there's something else that concerns me, and i want to make that very clear. in six months' time the spanish presidency will begin its six-month term, something unique that has not happened for many years. i had the pleasure of participating as a young diplomat, in 2010, in a presidency that was fantastic. hundreds, thousands of officials in the general administration of the state are at this moment giving their skin to make this presidency a success. you know what's gonna be your biggest problem? your biggest problem is going to be you, who are going to start a campaign to boycott the presidency that you've already started today. that's going to be your biggest problem. in an exercise of disloyalty, i know of no political party in this house more disloyal to the interests, not of its government, but of its country, than the spanish people's party. but i say one thing to you: you can make all the noise you want, but you will not be able to tarnish the good work that the spanish coalition government is doing in europe with the iberian exception, with the recovery funds, in the field of labour policy... you can make all the noise you want, because this government is going to continue to do a good job in europe and you are not going to tarnish that work, and i am sure that the presidency is going to be a success in spite of you. bark, bark, then we ride...
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, george orwell, in 1984: if the leader says of such an event this did not happen, this did not happen. if the leader says two and two is five, two and two is five. this is the state of the rule of law, democracy and freedom in spain. under the guise of grandiloquent phrases, the will to destroy the principle of legality is hidden. the big brother is pedro sanchez. the rule of law requires respect for procedure, minorities and constitutional consultative bodies. sánchez has been systematically passing laws fraudulently, using parliamentary groups to avoid reports from the council of state, the general council of the judiciary and the fiscal council. spain is the only member state whose judicial power body cannot make appointments since 2021 because big brother has prohibited it. big brother continues to place his judicial pawns with the complicity of every party but vox. in order to ensure judicial independence, procedural rules should avoid raising legitimate doubts as to the neutrality of judges. however, sánchez has appointed as a magistrate of the constitutional court a person who until a year ago was his minister of justice, and a magistrate who until six months ago worked in his cabinet of presidency. but what appeals are they going to make on the laws they have drafted? big brother has decided to corrupt the institutions. before storming the court, sánchez accused the magistrates of trampling democracy. sánchez has turned spain into a space of impunity where the criminal receives reward and the victim, humiliation. yesterday they were the victims of eta terrorism, today it is women or children who are victims of rape and sexual abuse who see their abusers released from prison or have their sentences reduced. coup plotters, politicians, thieves and rapists are the beneficiaries of sanchez. this is the truth that no propaganda can hide. big brother sanchez dictates what spaniards can think of their history by rewriting the past to control the future: book searches and seizures, desecration of graves and cancellation of street names and monuments. i end by quoting chesterton: "dead things can be carried by the current, only something alive can go against the current". don't worry, we are still very much alive, against the tide, to restore spain's unity, freedom, security, the prosperity of the spanish people and the principle of legality.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, this debate is an instrumental debate of the popular party, which uses this house to question the legitimacy of the government of spain, in the pure style of the extreme right elsewhere in the world, especially taking into account the record they carry and, above all, their particular view of legality. any examples? his former interior minister paid from police reserve funds to spy on political opponents and members of his own party: illegal. his headquarters renovated with black money: illegal. his ministers imprisoned for doing illegal things, for corruption. its president, mr. rajoy, has been suspended over the biggest corruption scandal in our country. but also their conception of the rule of law, which does not prevent them from standing outside the constitution, blocking the renewal of the general council of the judiciary. or his coalition government with the far right in places like castile and león, where this week they proposed forcing women to listen to the beating of their fetuses before they abort. an assault on our rights. i could go on, but i don't have time in the two minutes i have to list all of these people's histories. although i think that with these examples it is clear that perhaps the one who most distorts the rule of law in our country is precisely the popular party. and of course we have many things to improve, like everyone, but it is undoubtedly one of the eu governments that has made the most progress in rights and democracy this year: our iberian exception, which places the electricity bill as the lowest in europe, the increase in the minimum wage, the record number of fixed contracts for labor reform, the law of the "only yes is yes" that finally protects us women from sexual violence, the trans and lgbt law, the abortion law, the strengthening and revaluation of the public pension system, the minimum living income and, very importantly, the memory law that closes the darkest chapter of our recent history and that, yes, cancels fascism in our country. i could also go on, but these examples are worth mentioning so that the spanish pp does not try to confuse this house in the coming months with debates which have little to do with the defence of rights and much to do, however, with an electoral interest.
madam president, commissioner, many of us have a great interest in the health of democracy in the spanish state, because we are losing our freedom in this. do you want to talk about those issues that are a threat to the rule of law? let's start with the judicial system, which transitioned from francoism to democracy without reforms and which, controlled by easily identifiable surnames, is the weapon of choice of the far right and the not so far right. let's continue with the criminalization of civil society participation and mobilization because of a biting law that remains unrepealed. we could also put corruption on the table, but if i start with the two big parties, we run out of time for this debate. not to mention the use of pegasus, bought by some, used by all, without any control. we are therefore glad that the rule of law in spain is being placed at the centre of the european agenda and we hope that the same commitment that the right wing and the not so right wing have in promoting electoral debates here will be used to correct the many democratic deficiencies that have been dragging on for decades.
madam president, commissioner, this debate is being exploited by the electoral ambitions of a seditious party which has been breaking the constitution for four years, which does not recognise the election results and which is trying to spread the idea that the spanish government is illegitimate just because it is not its own. everyone knows that the popular party is the one that has prevented the renewal of the general council of the judiciary in spain and that it is not the first time. it has been blocked three times since the constitution was approved in 1978 and the popular party has always done so: in 1996, for eight months; in 2008, for a year and ten months; and now, when we have been blocked for forty-nine months. his m.o. is always the same: patrimonialist and opportunist. first they colonize the judiciary and when things don't go their way, they block its renewal. this time they are whitewashing themselves by demanding a change in the law to comply with the constitutional mandate and say that europe demands such a change. but in europe there are very different models and the commission has only recommended that we proceed immediately to the renewal of the council, which is what the people's party is preventing. the council of europe has made it clear that the mechanisms of election through political representation bodies are as valid as those of members of the judicial profession, assuming that everything has its risks, as the spanish constitutional court pointed out in 1986, which was not yesterday. politicisation is as bad as corporatism. as the venice commission says, the important thing here is to ensure that judges are autonomous and do not work at the dictates of a party, which is what the people's party prevents. finally, although they are determined to make spain like poland or hungary, there is no comparison possible, because in spain it is the opposition, and not the government, that seeks to control the judges and because our judiciary is resilient and continues to have effective guarantees. despite the people's party, this government has taken the lead in europe in protecting and guaranteeing fundamental rights and in social policies.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to be clear and start by saying that spain does not have a problem with the rule of law, but that the rule of law has a problem with the current government of spain. our constitution and the development of its institutions have made spain a vigorous democracy and three generations of spaniards, already, feel the pride of having built a system of freedoms since the transition from dictatorship to democracy, with a pact of reconciliation and a national project widely shared. and that is precisely what we want to keep. attack the popular party all you want, but don't offend the women by saying that it is noise that 200 sexual abusers have had their sentences reduced - and this is data - and 19 have been released from prison. attack the popular party, but don't offend the taxpayers when the embezzlers of public funds are going to see their sentences reduced as a result of a legal reform of the government. and speaking of corruption cases, i think that in andalusia they are still waiting for the return of the money taken from them. attack the popular party, but do not offend the citizens when you weaken the protection of the democratic system with a criminal reform that abolishes the crime of sedition agreed with the seditious. well, the spanish judicial organization we know is suffering the devastating consequences of another legal reform by the government that has prevented the magistrature council from appointing judges and magistrates to the main courts for two years. i would just like to say that it is a good exercise to compare the composition of the constitutional tribunal and the extraction of its members with those of other constitutional courts in the european union. and this is not just a national issue, this is already a european problem. the commissioner issues a report on the rule of law every year. it is a problem that bears the name of a government which has also made it clear - as the minister of justice repeated in brussels last week - that it does not intend to comply with the insistence of the european union and the council of europe. this is the reality we want to make clear and which you, commissioner, will unfortunately have to continue to face.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the sánchez government is gaining power by supporting ultra-identitarian populism in catalonia. we didn't make it up, the people involved said so themselves. and we are witnessing the erosion of safeguards which are important for a democratic state and the reason is to grant total or partial impunity to the perpetrators of serious crimes against the rule of law. this is the substance. spain has just undergone a carousel of judicial reforms that lead to the elimination of the crime of sedition when there are still unprosecuted accused for the serious events of 2017, which are the most serious attack in the european union on the rule of law, mr commissioner. and the reduction in penalties for embezzlement directly affects the people who proclaimed the end of the separation of powers in catalonia - let us not forget this - against the democratic institutions, against the constitutional order, mr commissioner. and we're not talking about guesses. the very beneficiaries of impunity have publicly acknowledged this time and again. and the drift is not stopping, inspector. you yourself have said that judgments must be enforced when they concern fundamental rights and the government is trying to avoid this, perhaps by another secret pact. impunity appears as a derivative and we have warned citizens about this time and again.
madam president, it is high time that this parliament addressed the most scandalous and serious case of undemocratic degradation in europe, which is the one suffered by spain. in three years, under pedro sánchez and his socialist and communist government, the harassment of judges and prosecutors has reached levels typical of chavista regimes in latin america. the abuse of public and private media for government propaganda and attacks on the opposition, with the disqualification and criminalization of the opposition, is typical of non-democratic systems. that's not a coincidence. the government parties socialist and communist have close ideological and corruption links with dictatorships, as in the case of pdvsa with venezuela or the sending of money to podemos, to the communists, from narco-states like venezuela and like bolivia. the spanish government has forced, manipulated and even abolished laws and pressured judges and put politicians of their trust as magistrates to help coup criminals and release terrorist murderers, because it depends on their minority votes to continue governing. until the last day of his campaign he promised he wouldn't do that, which is exactly what he did next: make deals with criminals to get the votes of criminals.
madam president, spain, as has been said here, has no problem with its rule of law. spain has a problem fundamentally with the opposition and the type of opposition that is being carried out, fundamentally because there is a party that is the popular party, which was one of the pillars of the system it was a systemic party in the constitutional architecture, which is behaving like a party that goes crazy behind the extreme right, among other things because it does not know how to compete, because it does not know how to counter an extreme right that is a relatively recent phenomenon in spain. it is striking that you bring a debate on these conditions to the european parliament, seeing what you have done with the renewal of the general council of the judiciary. i would like you to take note of what the commission has said: the priority problem is the renewal of the general council of the judiciary - the body for the functioning and management of the judiciary in spain - which does not mean that the judges are not independent and do not work. the judiciary is independent in spain, but it is true that the failure to renew the general council of the judiciary, which has been blocked for more than 1 500 days, 1 506 days to be exact today, creates a serious disruption in the functioning of the system. and by the way, i encourage people and i encourage your own colleagues who have intervened here to check out the blood library. but it is not difficult to find out how many excuses the popular party has put forward for not renewing it in the last 1 500 days: from not wanting to negotiate with one of the partners in government to an amendment to the penal code, to wanting a certain political measure. it's all been excuses. the last one: that they want to change a law that you created, that you approved in 2013 - it was approved by the government with an absolute majority of mr rajoy in 2013 - a law that they have to comply with and the commission has told them: they have to renew the general council of the judiciary, because it is absolutely a priority in spain. patriotism is not carrying flags on your wrist, patriotism is fundamentally obeying the law. and, by the way, patriotism is also speaking well of your country abroad. i do not see another people's party from a large country in the european union constantly bringing this kind of debate to the european parliament, like the shameful behaviour of the chair of the committee on petitions constantly using the european institutions to speak ill of her country. indeed, gentlemen of the popular party, spanish democracy needs you. i honestly believe that you need them. so please, get off the mountain.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we need a major corruption scandal by several socialist members of this house to get the s&d group to agree to put the debate on spain on the agenda. the sanchez government is functioning thanks to an agreement with anti-constitutional and far-left parties. their activity implies fulfilling their agenda: dismantling the rule of law, freedoms, interfering in private life and putting the everyday security of spaniards at risk. criminals to the street. appointments of the comrades to high judicial offices. changing the rules of the game to validate their positions. criminalizing judges for their decisions. and you have the nerve to criticize us for our rule of law? in hungary, the law and the constitution would never allow this. you use the recovery funds very opaquely, while blackmailing the commission into not giving funds to hungary. commissioner, when are you going to take action against the spanish government? or do they only take them against conservative governments that represent values like freedom and family?
madam president, a serious political debate on the very serious institutional crisis in spain makes perfect sense. but it must take place in its proper place: the spanish parliament, not here in the european parliament. it is clear that the european people's party's scheduling of this debate is only an attempt to use this european stage to continue the party confrontation against the spanish government. the rule of law is undoubtedly a european value and systemic threats to the rule of law are a european issue, as has been understood in relation to several member states. but that is not the case in spain. the european commission has just come here today to acknowledge the progress made in the functioning of democracy and the rule of law. if there are grounds for concern in spain about the functioning of the rule of law and the principle of separation of powers, it is precisely on these two points that the right wing and the proponents of this debate refuse to recognise. first, the long-standing blockade on the renewal of the general council of the judiciary, and now also of the constitutional court, keeping several judges in office well beyond their term, to perpetuate a political imbalance favourable to the right. second, and more serious, the unprecedented case of the judiciary interfering in the functioning of the legislative branch: when the constitutional court, at the request of the right, used the precautionary measure to prevent the vote in the senate, in a legislative process still underway. this is unprecedented, neither in spain nor in any other country where the rule of law prevails. the spanish government has done well in complying with this court decision and in contributing to respect for the rule of law. but it is also good not to settle for this blockage. this is the number one priority of the commission's recommendations. if the pp takes its concerns about the rule of law seriously, the way forward is simple: to stop this longstanding blockage of the renewal of the judiciary in spain.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. yesterday we discussed corruption in the european parliament, which has hit the left-wing political scene very hard. today we're talking about the rule of law in spain. in fact, today, this discussion comes down to the fact that we are exposing double standards. it was the socialists who most fiercely and ruthlessly attacked poland and hungary on every charge, very often against poland, always on false charges, accusing the alleged violation of the rule of law. so let's see, commissioner, what's going on with these milestones. have you made any progress in the spanish milestones, have you taken steps to improve the national judiciary in spain? is it written that access to eu funds will be restricted if spain does not lift the penalties for corruption? because it was spain that reduced the penalty for corruption. they've reduced the sentences for rapists. did chairwoman barley get angry and say that because spain is reducing the punishment for sex crimes, spain should be starved? no, i'm not going. today's discussion is about double standards. and the socialists show that they have a mouth full of phrases. and when it comes to real life, it turns out... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as a czech mep i do not wish to deal with the national situation in spain. that's not what this debate is about. this is not about the political situation in spain, but about the fact that one of the key values of the european union - the rule of law - is under threat in one of the member states. and that debate is therefore entirely legitimate, it belongs to the european parliament and we are obliged as meps, whether we are citizens of any of the member states, to debate whether or not the rule of law in spain is threatened. as a person who by profession - i am a lawyer, i was a minister of justice and i am an academic - deals with the independence of the judiciary, i must say that i am very concerned about what is happening in spain with the supreme judicial council: that it is blocked, that it is not working, that the current government is trying to increase political influence on the spanish judiciary. we must deal with this, as we have debated and dealt with the case of poland and hungary. they must pay the password "fall to whom fall". it is not possible that some countries should be excluded from our debate simply because their government presents itself as pro-european. if we do that, then in the future our protection of the rule of law will be significantly abused, relativized and our protection of the rule of law will be seen as a kind of pressure from brussels against inconvenient governments in the member states of the european union. commissioner, please do not underestimate the situation in spain. start a dialogue with the spanish government, start a dialogue on how to remedy the situation blocked by the supreme judicial council, how to address the unprecedented decision of the spanish constitutional court, which itself has pointed out that this problem is very serious, and let's do everything to ensure that spain remains a state governed by the rule of law.
madam president, commissioner, as a judge, i am deeply saddened that the european union is pointing the finger at my country for attacks on the rule of law. we are used to being lectured on patriotism from the socialist group quite often. and here, lessons in patriotism, the ppe group need not receive any. i also believe that it is not a lesson in patriotism to make a gratuitous verbal attack on the head of the spanish delegation of the ppe group. i am pleased that you, commissioner, are going to continue to assess compliance with the recommendations suggested by the european union. unfortunately, the psoe's attempt to interfere with judicial independence is no surprise. and i will explain: they did it in 1985, when they changed the organic law on the judiciary to change the system for electing the members of the general council of the judiciary. so they started there, they continued at another stage with another president and they are culminating now: the minister of justice, the other day in the european parliament, acknowledged to us that the constitutional court was a political court and that the government had nothing to do with the renewal of the general council of the judiciary, when it turns out that the one negotiating on behalf of the socialist party is the minister of the presidency, mr bolaños. we are therefore reaching an unprecedented level of impudence and interference which is certainly making a mockery of alfonso guerra's claim that montesquieu was dead. we therefore argue here that spain is one of the most advanced democracies in europe. but the president of the government, mr sánchez, has been determined to degrade it and is shaping all the institutions in his image and likeness. it is what he is doing with the penal code, changed up to six times in the year 2022, something that had never happened before, to reverse judicial sentences for pure partisan interests and their partners in government. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, we are all aware that the far right is a growing force in europe. the events of last december in germany show that it is now organized to the point of planning a coup d'état. but the terrorist threats are just the tip of the iceberg of the danger posed by the rise of the far right. in spain, the far right has a name and surname, is politically institutionalized and has even entered regional governments with the pp. the vox party defends a xenophobic, homophobic, racist and misogynist policy, as it has shown with the anti-abortion protocol of castilla y león, copied from the orbán law in hungary. that parties like vox are finding themselves increasingly influential and politically powerful is the real threat to the rule of law in the european union. especially because his speech legitimizes events as unfortunate as those we have witnessed in brasilia and in washington. let us act before democratic values and human rights are a thing of the past.
mr president, commissioner johansson, when the uber files came to light last july, we were able to see what the modus operandi was of certain large multinationals: believing themselves to be above the law and using ethically questionable tactics to influence the democratic process. the stark reality shows that workplace platforms like uber have been developed through a business model based on social backwardness and undermining the rights of workers. while this parliament seeks to protect the more than 30 million people who today work through digital platforms in the european union, guaranteeing them access to their social and labour rights, others aim to dismantle the european social model that we have worked so hard to build. it is not very common for a negotiating mandate approved in committee to be challenged and brought to the plenary, especially when it is passed by a large majority, as happened in the committee on employment. in fact, this has only happened with seven of the eighty-two mandates announced in the plenary during this legislature. so one cannot help but wonder what is behind the deliberate delay in the negotiations on a directive which aims to ban false selfemployment on platforms, when the only ones who are against this legislation are precisely platforms like uber.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you very much for this useful exchange. at the end of this debate, let me reiterate the council’s full commitment to engage with other eu institutions on issues of transparency and accountability. i believe we share a common goal to ensure the highest standard of integrity and independence. the work has led to the setting up of the transparency register that we have talked about. it’s a good example of what we can achieve together. it is a common task of all institutions to remain watchful, but also that their members and representatives always act in accordance with the applicable rules when dealing with lobbyists. just as i said in my final and in my first intervention, the presidency is firmly committed to taking the platform directive forward. so with that, i just want to conclude and say thank you very much for this debate.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much for this debate, and thank you very much for your very valuable contributions. this debate shows how important transparency is to making sure integrity, independence and accountability are the pillars of our decision making, particularly when we speak about the important topics of workers and social rights. for us in the commission. it’s key to have strong rules and common principles covering, in the same way, all european institutions and bodies. that is what the commission will continue to push for. we will need to look at the relevance of several angles as we move forward with the creation of a truly interinstitutional ethics body looking at the transparency rules. the commission is working to move swiftly on these matters. the commission will soon reach out again to other institutions on these matters, and we hope that we can come quickly to solutions, which are convincing and truly common to all institutions, and which deliver the level of integrity that europeans and european citizens deserve. we also look forward to the ep report on platform workers, which will bring us closer to improving the working conditions of platform workers and improve the transparency of platform activities.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the socialists believe that the european directive on the situation of the self-employed on digital platforms is essential. it cannot be delayed any longer, despite the confirmed attempts to delay by work platform companies like uber, with a business model based on undermining the rights of workers. these interferences by big business are not tolerable, nor is the maintenance of jobs as slaves to algorithms. we need to protect workers and workers on digital platforms now.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the criminalisation of humanitarian aid, including search and rescue operations (2023/2526 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, the year is still young, but so far the iom reported already 30 deaths in the mediterranean. our main goal must be to prevent dangerous journeys in the first place by taking action along migration routes with countries of origin, transit and destination, by fighting smugglers, and improving opportunities for regular migration, and by creating a truly european migration policy. that’s why we launched a pact and proposed two action plans at the end of last year. where we can’t prevent it’s imperative to save lives. saving lives at sea is a moral imperative and a legal obligation. coastguard, navy and merchant vessels, fishing boats, carry out this duty faithfully. ships of ngos also save many lives. we have to acknowledge the role of ngos, not only at sea, but also on land in forests, mountains, deserts. we have always been clear: genuine humanitarian assistance should not be criminalised. what must be criminalised is facilitating illegal entry or exit across the border for money, for profit – that is smuggling, a criminal activity, pure and simple. rescuers, volunteers, have concerns. they do not want to be punished for helping people. this is not a new concern. we addressed it when we launched the pact on migration and asylum over two years ago, where we issued guidance to create clarity for member states about what is criminal and not, to help them implement a law, guidance on the facilitators’ package. in this guidance, we made it clear that humanitarian assistance mandated by law cannot and must not be criminalised. and we want member states to follow up in their national law to make it crystal clear that humanitarian assistance is not to be criminalised. at that time, only eight member states made explicit exceptions from punishment in case of humanitarian assistance in their national laws – to date, nine. i think we can do better. it is now time to take stock and further steps. we will report this year on the implementation of the facilitators’ package and on the implementation of the 2020 commission guidance on humanitarian assistance. in preparation, we will organise targeted consultation with various stakeholders, including relevant ngos. the goal is to build up better knowledge and gather evidence to assess the state of play, also regarding humanitarian assistance, and discuss ways forward. the pact brings a more european approach to search and rescue. it’s the member states who carry out and coordinate search and rescue operations at sea. but we also have responsibility as a union. we can make sure that the right rules and policies are in place. we can bring all the right people together to discuss challenges and solutions. that’s why, just over two years ago, we adopted a recommendation on search and rescue to improve information—sharing, coordination and cooperation between member states and other relevant actors in search and rescue, including private vessels, and setting up the contact group on search and rescue to gather knowledge and promote cooperation. i am now relaunching the work of this group, and the next meeting will take place before the end of this month. i count on the full participation of all member states and all other partners. this is a direct follow—up on the commission’s action plan for the central mediterranean that i presented to ministers last november, and that was also very much welcomed by the member states. effective search and rescue will remain essential. what is crucial in the first place is to prevent people from embarking on dangerous journeys. we are working intensively on reinforcing our migration partnerships with countries of origin, transit and destination to fight smugglers who will put lives at risk every day. and we are working to improve possibilities for regular legal migration so people can come safely to europe for work and study. i truly welcome the recent agreement between the parliament and the council on the resettlement and humanitarian framework regulation, which creates a common approach for bringing refugees in need to europe safely and legally. until it enters into force, member states will continue their current resettlement efforts, pledging 29 000 places this year, just over half for resettlement, and the others for humanitarian admissions. and we are constantly looking for new approaches. just yesterday, we launched a funding call to expand complementary pathways linked to work and community sponsorship, because the local community is the best guarantee for successful integration. and every refugee who can find a job with a business in europe is one who will not feel the need to embark on an unsafe, dangerous journey. honourable members of this parliament, what we need most of all is an agreement on the pact, a truly european migration policy to put an end to unsafe journeys and open up legal pathways. i am confident we will continue to make progress and that with your help, we will succeed. thank you very much.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, should humanitarian assistance be criminalised? that’s the question of this debate. no, of course, not. there are many people around the world making sacrifices in order to help people in need, and their work should be applauded. so no, we should not criminalise humanitarian assistance. but should we criminalise crimes? yes we should. and it really is as simple as that. when crimes are committed, they should be investigated, they should be prosecuted, and they should be brought before an impartial judge, regardless of who has committed them. in the eyes of the law, everyone is equal. nobody, not me, not ngos, not humanitarian workers should receive preferential treatment. yet that is what some colleagues sometimes here seem to argue, that somehow some people should be above the law, and that when suspicions of criminal activities arise, they should be ignored or covered up for specific groups of people. i don’t think that’s fair. let me remind you, we are in the midst of a corruption scandal. it centres around an ngo. should we not prosecute this ngo because we would be at risk of criminalising humanitarian work? should the people working at this ngo not be investigated because we would be risking criminalising humanitarian workers? no, i should hope not. crimes are crimes regardless of the perpetrator, and in a rule of law, they need to be proven in a court of law with independent judicial institutions to ensure due process. in greece, people arrested under the syriza government have been acquitted of their charges last week even. is it a crime to save lives? no, of course not. saving lives is a legal duty, but first and foremost a moral obligation. and every death at sea is an unspeakable tragedy. so, saving lives, of course, is not a crime, but forging license plates or documents is. unauthorised entry into military zones is. cooperating directly with smuggling gangs that have turned human vulnerability into a multibillion—dollar business model is a crime. and so is illegally intercepting communications from authorities or frontex. and when such crimes are committed, member states have every right to investigate and prosecute them with full respect of the right to a free trial within a reasonable time. and we should support them in doing so.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not we are talking today about the criminalization of humanitarian aid. it's about people who are courageously standing up for our values, for our european way of life, saving people from drowning. it is about people showing civil courage and taking on a task that is actually the responsibility of all member states. this is a mission that deserves support. instead, we see how the italian government, for example, harasses seamen by decree. instead of the nearest port, long detours are made, which tolerate the loss of human life. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of taxation of the income of the employees. or the trial of seán binder, sarah mardini and 22 other human rights defenders in greece. they are accused of being members of a criminal organisation. membership in a criminal organization? seriously? the member states may be more likely to criminalize the systematic denial of access to the asylum system, including the use of force against vulnerable people. where is the commission as guardian of the treaties? so let me conclude by repeating a call i made here in july 2019: saving lives is not a crime. it is our duty and must never be criminalized.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, it is amazing that we have to repeat this again. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of persons in distress at sea is not compromised by the fact that the ship is in a dangerous condition. they're not refugees. you know it, the mafias know it, the ngos know it and i know it, but i'm the only one who says it; because you have a clear political interest: to promote failed multiculturalism. it is the europeans who are suffering in the streets from an unprecedented wave of gang rapes, shootings and murders, not to mention the high risk of jihadist terrorism, especially on the algerian route. european values, you know? european courage is to uphold the law and to have our young, women and elderly people walking in peace in the streets. i give you the recipe again: secure borders, repeat over and over again 'if you follow the law, accepted; if you don't follow the law, you lose all hope', trial and jail for traffickers, immediate repatriation of the illegal and, for ngos that break the law, sanctions. if you don't know or don't want to, leave it. we are ready and willing.
mr president, twenty-four humanitarian workers on the island of lesbos accused of facilitating illegal immigration into europe, a case which a study by this parliament called the biggest case of criminalisation in europe and for which the office of the united nations high commissioner for human rights called for the charges to be dropped. and this is not the only case, unfortunately. we now see how the italian hard right government is trying to impede the activities of ngos that help at sea with this decree. it is not a question of regulating anything but of making their work more difficult and complicated. and we also see that other governments, in addition, what they do is practice hot returns, forced returns. we have seen it in greece, we have seen it in croatia, we have seen it in poland. the commission must therefore act. eu law is being violated by these authorities and governments, both in the criminalization of ngos - which is a rule of law problem - and in the issue of systematic forced returns. please act by opening the infringement procedure of union law.
mr president, in nagorno—karabakh, the guns are currently silent, yet the war is far from being over. indeed, after the previous criminal attack to armenia, we are now seeing one of the worst sides of the war, with a hateful blockade since 30 days of the lachin corridor from fake azeri eco—activists that are putting the lives of thousands of people, of children, of women and fragile persons at risk, not due to bombings or gunshots but to starvation and hindered access to medicines. we must seriously step up our force for stopping these atrocities. first, our monitoring mission should have the mandate to enter the lachin corridor immediately to verify what is happening on the ground. yerevan has already granted access to its territories, and we demand baku do the same without any further delay. then we must be proactive in ensuring that the affected population receives the necessary humanitarian supplies, organising immediate relief to the region. if the baku regime denies access, we have to stand ready for adopting a set of adequate, strong sanctions targeting those responsible for these atrocities. dear colleagues, in this context, any attempt to undermine access to food amounts to a war crime. we have loudly denounced that in ukraine, and we must reaffirm that in the same way in nagorno—karabakh. when the lives of people are at risk, there is no space, not even a single inch, for double standards.
the blockade of the laçın corridor is a scandal. over a hundred thousand people are now without food, without medicine. the sick can no longer be transported. gas and electricity are already shut down. and this scandal is partly due to the european union. mrs von der leyen has made a gas deal with the dictator in baku and he now feels empowered to come here and show off his bulldog. this is clearly something that mrs vălean should take home with her. stop the gas deal! the gas deal must be stopped because it only encourages azerbaijan. we also need to open an airlift to the affected area and help the people in nagorno-karabakh. and finally, sanctions against azerbaijan. there is no dialogue with the dictator in baku. only sanctions will get him back in his cage.
mr president, for over a month the only road connecting nagorno-karabakh with armenia and the outer world has been blocked by self—proclaimed environmentalists from azerbaijan, joined now with azerbaijani military personnel. this blockade has led to a severe humanitarian crisis for over 120 000 armenians, who stay there with no food, no fuel, no medication – and they call that their home for over 2 000 years. this humanitarian crisis was further aggravated by the disruption of the natural gas supply. this may be another resolution in the european parliament, but we have another crime committed by azerbaijanis in the making. for over 120 000 residents in nagorno—karabakh – including 30 000 children and 20 000 elderly – with no food, no medicine, no schooling this debate may be their only window for salvation.
mr president, blocking access to nagorno-karabakh and depriving 120 000 armenians living there of access to essential goods is an act of barbarism. doing so under the disguise of alleged environmental ngos is an act of cynicism. and doing it by cutting off the lachin corridor is a mockery to the trilateral ceasefire statement of 9 november 2020. people in artsakh have the right to live in peace, dignity and security in their own places. it’s time to reach a peace agreement that guarantees the rights and security of the armenian population of nagorno-karabakh and settles its final status, taking into account the will of their own people. the eu should step up its involvement to reach such a final deal.
mr president, dear colleagues, for over a month now, an aliyev regime-sponsored group who pretend to be environmental activists are blocking the corridor between armenia and nagorno-karabakh. as a result, the humanitarian situation is becoming dire. basic food and medicine are running out and even fuel is in short supply. many lives are in danger. the strategy of the dictatorship in baku is clear. however, also we bear responsibility for this situation. for years we have neglected the caucasus region. because of our energy deals, we have even shut our eyes to the human rights situation in azerbaijan and aliyev’s aggression against armenia. in this time, we need to invest in serious diplomatic effort to help solve this decades—long conflict, work with our partners to establish an international peacekeeping mission and provide immediate humanitarian aid.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, the eu has been closely following developments around the lachin corridor since the beginning of december 2022. in a statement issued on 13 december, the eu called on the azerbaijani authorities to ensure freedom and security of movement along the corridor, in line with commitments deriving from the trilateral statement of 9 november 2020. restrictions to such freedom of movement are causing significant distress among the local population. the eu is increasingly alarmed about the negative humanitarian impact resulting from the lack of food, medicine and other essential goods and medical services, in addition to regular disruptions to energy supplies and telecommunications. the eu’s humanitarian funding for 2022 amounts to eur 3.6 million that has been entirely given to the icrc, being the only partner on the ground able to access nagorno-karabakh. the programme focuses on two areas for its intervention: economic security, which includes programmes to provide conflict—affected people with material and financial support to help them meet their basic needs; second, actions against weapon contamination, with programmes to ensure conflict—affected people are aware of the dangers posed by mines and the explosive remnants of the war and how to safely behave around these. the current situation is not sustainable and creates tensions that run contrary to the much—needed confidence—building efforts. the eu reiterates that other concerns can and should be addressed through dialogue and consultations with the parties involved. it calls for a return to negotiation and for the mounting pressure on the civilian population to cease without further delay. the eu stands ready to contribute to all efforts to build confidence and to address concerns through facilitation and dialogue.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
in writing. for decades, the innocent people of nagorno-karabakh have suffered from wars, embargoes and brutal persecution. the international community has so far been unable to convince armenia and azerbaijan to resolve the dispute through peaceful negotiations. the armenian people are still suffering. it is time for the international community, and in particular us, the european union, to finally open our eyes and take effective action to prevent further suffering of civilians. those who violate human rights and threaten peace must be confronted with international action and sanctions. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the situation in the region is not further aggravated by the continuing conflict in the region.
the next item is the debate on the five motions for resolutions on the intrusion into the democratic institutions of brazil (2023/2505 ((rsp)) *. the following table is added: see minutes of the hearing.
mr president, the violent attack by the far right on the democratic institutions in brasilia on 8 january is part of a more global phenomenon. a year ago it was capitol hill, and now it's brasilia. trump and bolsonaro are hand in hand in the same fight to destroy democracy. we therefore strongly support efforts to ensure a swift, impartial, serious and effective investigation to identify, prosecute and hold accountable all those involved, including the instigators, organizers and financiers, as well as the omissions of state institutions that failed to act to prevent these attacks. we also support and are deeply in solidarity with the democratically elected president lula da silva and his government. and we'll be watching, we know full well that the coup attempt is not over. we are deeply in solidarity with the brazilian people and all those who for years have been the target of violence, discrimination, murder and attempts at destabilization. on this side of the sea, we are ready to help uproot the roots of the bolsonarism and continue to sow the rosemary.
mr president, everyone here seems to be in complete agreement. i very much agree that the violence that took place in brasilia on the 8th, with the assault on state buildings and representing the democratic state of brazil, must be strongly condemned and we must all firmly condemn it and hope that those who really took part in it will have a fair trial. however, i don't remember anyone right now who remembered that, in the year 2017, lula's followers stormed and burned three ministries in brasilia three ministries were burned in brasilia by mr. lula's followers. mr lula founded the são paulo forum, the great narco-communist network that exists at this moment in latin america and is setting all democracies on fire. mr. lula founded it with mr. castro. mr castro is not known as a democrat who came to power, precisely, in a peaceful way. let's see if we can see everything a little more clearly and see that democracy is in danger in ibero-america because of the são paulo forum, which lula founded lula founded. that's the fundamental threat to democracy there.
on behalf of the renew group. we are here to demonstrate that the european parliament denounces and condemns the assault on the democratic institutions in brazil in order to support its democracy, to denounce this unacceptable violation of the institutions which represent the powers of brazilian democracy and, i repeat, to support it. in europe we know what this means. in 2018, catalan separatists attempted to storm the parliament of catalonia. in europe we live with astonishment that, in the year 2021, trump supporters will storm the us capitol. but we don't just have to spread words of support for brazilian democracy - which of course - but we have to get down to the facts. and the facts are that we need to strengthen our political, cooperative and economic relations with brazil. for this we have an instrument, the mercosur agreement, which is not a problem - as some people say - but a solution, because the mercosur agreement is also needed to meet the challenges of defending democracy.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, we welcome this parliament's stand with democracy, strongly condemning the fascist attack by bolsonaro's supporters. let's be clear: the shameful assault on democracy in brazil began on april 17, 2017, with the coup against president dilma, and continued with the lawfare campaign that unjustly sent president lula to prison. both have had the complicit silence of the majority of this house. the same silence that is unfortunately being maintained today in the face of the massacre and grave human rights violations that are bleeding the peruvian people with more than fifty people killed. the coup attempt in brazil, which we condemn here today, is not unique to bolsonarism. it's the right-wing agenda when it's not in government. as in the assassination attempt against cristina kirchner in argentina or against president petro and vice president francia márquez in colombia; as the coup d'état against evo morales in bolivia in 2019; or as the permanent dirty war suffered by the venezuelan and cuban government and people. don't make the same mistakes again. stop ignoring that the far right is incompatible with democracy, in latin america and here.
madam president, morocco is a strategic partner of the european union and, as a strategic partner, it must respect the agreements and commitments it adopts. when it does not, this parliament is obliged to remind it that it cannot use immigration to blackmail a member state, that it cannot spy on friendly governments and that it cannot bribe members of this parliament to influence its debates. and when it does not respect human rights, this parliament has an obligation to remind it that it cannot violate them, that it cannot unlawfully persecute and imprison moroccan journalists for doing their work, that it cannot harass european journalists for denouncing what the moroccan regime is doing and, above all, that it cannot look the other way while all this is happening. it is more than 20 years since the situation of human rights in morocco was discussed in this parliament. now we know why. but morocco its government must know that this parliament will not look the other way again. that a good partnership must be based on respect for human rights and mutual respect, because of the many pressures that the moroccan government puts on this house.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, commissioner, this parliament is clearly committed to democracy at work and to a revival of workers' rights to information, consultation and representation; a priority also for the spanish ministry of labour and its head, yolanda díaz, who will undoubtedly have her place in the next council presidency. it is a must at a critical time. that is why european social law is more labour-oriented today than it was yesterday. there is the directive on minimum wages, the directive on pay transparency, the directive on improving working conditions at work on digital platforms or the initiative on strengthening social dialogue; labourism also favours companies, because democracy at work translates into economic efficiency and employment stability. strengthening workers' rights to information and consultation reduces the dropout rate, increases employability, prevents layoffs, improves productive performance and the economic value of the enterprise. that is why it is so important that this directive be reformed and updated. in the world of work, mr. commissioner, 13 years is an eternity. the proposal in the report takes up this diagnosis, which is also shared by trade unions, experts and the academic world. it is now up to the commission to take it on board. so what are the proposals? introduce a mechanism for automatic suspension of business decisions which have not been previously consulted with the works council and recognise the right to a reasoned reply, so that there can be adequate judicial review of everything that is decided; improve access to judicial or non-judicial appeal mechanisms, with a favourable system of legal costs and with clear recognition of active legitimacy; ensure the implementation of the directive by improving the system of sanctions and making public procurement conditional on its effective compliance; broaden the content of information rights; recognise stricter obligations as regards the periodicity of committee meetings and incorporate experts to advise workers' representatives; simplify the current regime and provide greater legal certainty, ending the different types of committees and focusing on minimum standards for all bodies, regardless of the time of their creation. in short, to assert workers' rights to participation by ensuring an inclusive social dialogue at all levels. i think that there is clearly room for improvement in the legal framework of the european works council and there is ample justification for advocating major changes to the business model, to make it more socially responsible and economically smarter. commissioner, let us not let the legislature pass, let us not lose this opportunity, because there is consensus in parliament. i know that in spain we will fight to bring democracy to the workplace, because work is not a commodity, but a human relationship based on rights. and we trust you, mr. schmit. we know you're going to be fine.
that concludes the item.
the minutes of this sitting will be submitted to parliament for its approval at the beginning of the part-session to be held on 1 and 2 february 2023. if there are no objections i shall forward the resolutions adopted at today’s sitting to the persons and bodies named in the resolutions.
the next part-session will take place on 26 january 2023.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 19 january 2023.
the competent authorities of slovakia have notified me of the election of katarína roth neveďalová to the european parliament replacing miroslav číž with effect from 30 december 2022. i wish to welcome our new colleague and recall that she takes her seat in parliament and its bodies in full enjoyment of her rights pending the verification of her credentials.
daniela rondinelli has left the non-attached members and joined the s&d group as of 25 january 2023.
the agenda for this special session is adopted.
dear members, dear colleagues, we gather here today for this solemn ceremony to mark the international day of commemoration in memory of the victims of the holocaust, in the presence of the president of the state of israel. president herzog, welcome to the european parliament. (applause) before we begin i would like to invite you to turn your attention to the screens to watch a short video in remembrance of all the victims of the holocaust. (a video was shown in the chamber)
president herzog, distinguished guests, dear colleagues, every year around 27 january, the world remembers the millions of innocent men, women and children who were murdered in history’s greatest crime. a crime intended to wipe off a people from the earth. a crime designed to inflict horror on generations. a crime that has shaped our modern european project into an embodiment of the timeless promise: never again. it was a crime that saw six million jewish people murdered for being jewish; that saw roma and sinti people targeted; that saw lgbti communities eradicated and so many others humiliated and killed because of their ethnicity, disability, identity, race or beliefs. it is difficult to imagine the horrors of the holocaust and the actions that led up to it. the fear of mothers and fathers, the quiet suffering of so many. the little children forced to hide in holes, in basements and attics. the rabbis who remained dignified as they were forced to scrub pavements while crowds laughed and mocked. the impossible choices faced by so many every day in so many member states. the holocaust did not happen overnight. ‘auschwitz did not fall from the sky’ as survivor marian turski said three years ago. the alarm bells should have rung before. rabbi jonathan sacks gave a lecture in 2012 where he said one of the things that haunted him about the holocaust was the horror of the silence. ‘where were the voices? where were protests?’ he asked. this was done in living memory. in the age of enlightenment, rationalism, science and art and culture. this did not happen in a frenzy of hate: it took time, it was built up. the dehumanisation process started before the camps. and what was truly horrifying, he said, is the almost total absence of horror at the time. his appeal was for us to ‘resolve that if the moment comes, we will stand up and speak out, so that no one will have reason to say: when we cried, you were not listening; when we suffered, you were silent’. this is why, even if it is hard to describe these crimes, we must keep speaking; why we must never forget. we must speak because ours is the last generation to receive first-hand accounts from survivors of the holocaust. our duty becomes even greater when the voices of those survivors cannot be heard any longer. it is our responsibility to remember and to pass down testimonies to future generations, to educate. we must speak because despite decades of effort, anti-semitism still exists. hate still finds too many voices excusing it. too many families in europe and around the world live with packed suitcases by their door. we cannot allow anyone to find comfort in ignorance. let me repeat what i said in the knesset: to be anti-semitic is to be anti-european. our first woman president, simone veil, was herself a survivor – who grew up to change the face of europe – and her legacy is present in these halls and buildings. she understood that ‘neutrality only helps the oppressor’. and the european parliament will always take a side: the side of respect, the side of human dignity, the side of equality, the side of hope. this parliament is proud that we have not been silent. not when it comes to fighting hate and discrimination. not when it comes to anti-semitism and religious freedom. and we will keep acting to ensure that our communities are not marginalised by exclusion, hatred or indifference. we have not been silent when it came to standing up for our values. nor when it comes to russia’s aggression in ukraine and the rhetoric used to try to justify it. neither have we been silent when it comes to the regime in iran who execute young people standing up for women, life and liberty. ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow marks 78 years since the liberation of auschwitz-birkenau. a liberation from evil that proved that despite everything, hope endures. even when all around is hopelessness. the same hope that led to the declaration of the establishment of the state of israel 75 years ago this year. a nation that has endured, flourished and sustained a democracy despite all odds. president herzog, as i said in israel, the bond between the people of europe and the people of israel has been forged in the horror of our common history. a bond whose strength lies in its openness, honesty, straightforwardness – even criticism – but a bond that has and will withstand the test of time. and yet, our people share more than history and a promise to remember. we also share a common destiny – and a future that will endure. we will now listen to a musical interlude. (jenő lisztes (cimbalom) played ‘lament’ by laci rácz.)
i will now give the floor to his excellency mr isaac herzog, president of the state of israel, for his address. president herzog, the floor is yours.
president of the state of israel. – (the following is a transcription of the interpretation of the original speech from hebrew into english) in 1946, my grandfather and namesake, the chief rabbi of the land of israel, rabbi dr yitzhak isaac halevi herzog, embarked on a search and rescue mission looking for his jewish brethren all across the ravaged continent of europe. as he looked around him, he saw not only smouldering heaps of stone and sand, but also the silent cry of a down-trodden nation. the lives of millions of men, women and children had come to an end, and in their stead he saw only crumbling stone. in warsaw, home to over half a million jews before the holocaust, only the jewish cemetery remained to attest to the vibrant life that had flourished before the advent of the nazi regime. the nożyk synagogue on twarda street was the only jewish synagogue that remained in warsaw, and a few dozen souls gathered, snatched from the jaws of carnage. a bloodstained torah scroll was handed to my grandfather by the survivors to be taken to the land of israel for eternal memory. the former cantor of the great synagogue of warsaw, moshe koussevitzky, stood to recite a traditional jewish prayer for the departed, ‘el malei rachamim’, ‘o god who art full of compassion.’ only this time, the wording of the prayer was different than usual. it was different because my grandfather rewrote the prayer in order to express – if there’s any way to express – the pain, loss and grief that came in the wake of the destruction that had unfolded before his eyes. he rewrote it and appealed to god and asked him to grant rest to our brothers and sisters, victims of the horrific holocaust after the thousand painful deathly blows that they had suffered on this earth. i stand before you today as the president of the state of israel, the democratic nation-state of the jewish people, but my heart and thoughts are with my brothers and sisters who were killed in the holocaust. their only crime was being jewish and the humanity inside them. they were beloved and cherished. they dared to hope and dream even in the midst of devastation. in their memory, i will begin my remarks with this traditional prayer:‘o god, who art full of compassion, who dwellest on high, grant perfect rest on the wings of the divine presence, on the pinnacles of the holy and the pure, which shine like the radiance of the firmament, to the souls of the six million jews, victims of the holocaust, who were killed, suffocated, burned, and martyred by the german murderers and their accomplices from other nations. therefore, may the compassionate one shelter them forever in the safety of his wings and bind their souls in the eternal bonds of life. god is their portion. may their resting place be in the garden of eden. and may they stand for their fate at the end of days. let us say: amen.’ madam president of the european parliament, roberta metsola; madam president of the european commission, ursula von der leyen; honoured members of the european parliament, ambassadors, members of parliament, representatives of the jewish world, ladies and gentlemen, on the afternoon of 23 july 1944, the jews of the greek island of rhodes stood in a long line as they faced the western wall of the old city. the rest of the city’s population was forbidden to step outside. the nazis were not sated by the elimination of the glorious jewish communities of thessaloniki and other cities in greece, home to 98% of the jews of greece. in this way, from that holding site, over 1 600 jews from rhodes were loaded onto three old cargo vessels led by ss officers. for eight days and nights, in a nightmarish sea voyage, in a monstrous odyssey, the jews of rhodes sailed at sea. the heat was intense. the food was meagre. seven people were killed during the voyage and their bodies were thrown into the sea. another ship was sent to the island of kos to pick up nearly 100 jews, and another ship was sent to the island of leros, a small remote island, in order to hunt down the only jew who lived there. only one man. that was the whole jewish community of leros, one solitary single jew. he was the last one. his name was daniel rachamim. rachamim, the hebrew word for compassion, rachamim as in the prayer ‘el malei rachamim’, ‘o god who art full of compassion’. the compassion that he never received. this seemingly small, horrifying hunting expedition by the nazi monster for a single person, the last jew in a backwater place, tells the story of the entire holocaust. the story of the total annihilation, eradication and obliteration. the story of the monstrous, deranged obsession to totally exterminate a nation whose roots stretched back in history; they were an inseparable and essential part of europe, the jewish people. ‘why did you take a single person, why did you go through all this trouble?’ asked daniel rachamim. he did not know that for the nazis, his mere existence was a crime punishable by death. that in his case, ‘being’ was a crime. the people aboard these ships reached athens after an arduous journey and from there they were loaded onto cattle wagons. their destination was the auschwitz extermination camp. daniel rachamim, the last jew from leros, finished off this procession. ladies and gentlemen, there are some dates in history that go beyond the boundaries of time and become memorial sites. in 1945, the 27th of january went from being just another date to becoming a memorial site, when in the afternoon, the gates of hell were burst open. five horrible years later, the auschwitz-birkenau extermination camp, the largest death factory in human history, was liberated by the soldiers of the red army and stopped operating. snow covered the blood-drenched soil. in buchenwald, in dachau, in theresienstadt, bergen-belsen, and in so many, many other places, the horrors continued for several months until they were liberated. my father, the sixth president of the state of israel, chaim herzog, was at the time an officer in the british army. he was born in ireland. he had the privilege of landing at normandy. he crossed the rhine and took part in the liberation of the netherlands, belgium and the north of germany. i will never forget how he described to me the horrors that unfolded before his eyes as one of the first liberators of the death camps, including bergen-belsen. the human skeletons in the striped pyjamas, the hell on earth, the stench, the heart of darkness. millions of worlds, one third of the jewish people, were wiped out in the killing pits, in the gas chambers, in the furnaces, in the death camps. ‘all of this is simply incomprehensible’, wrote etty hillesum, a young woman from holland, before she was murdered in auschwitz in november 1943. ‘the skies are full of birds. the purple lupins stand up so regally and peacefully. the sun is shining on my face. and right before our eyes, mass murder is being carried out.’ in the nazis’ despicable ‘final solution’, they sought to rip at europe’s own flesh and blood. for just as humanity would not be what it is without europe, in the same way, europe could not be what it is without the jews. can anyone imagine europe without the theories of sigmund freud, without the genius of albert einstein or emmy noether? could there be a europe without the echoes of the thoughts of karl marx? how can we conceive of european philosophy without baruch spinoza or henri bergson, or the spirit of european culture without amedeo modigliani or franz kafka? however, anti-semitism, like an autoimmune disease, made europe attack part of its own dna, and a shared history going back millennia was erased as if it had never existed. honourable members of the european parliament, the holocaust was not born in a vacuum. we should never forget that the nazi death machine would not have managed to carry out its nightmarish vision had it not met soil fertilised with jew—hatred, which is as old as time itself. the stereotypical depiction of jews had struck roots in europe for centuries, before the rise of the nazis, for generations. nazi ideology intensified traditional anti-semitism and primordial fears fanned the flames of hatred. even before a single extermination camp was built, in the minds of the masses, the jew was already human dust – a subhuman. it is precisely for this reason, precisely because the holocaust was based on much older anti—semitic foundations that had taken root and flourished in europe, that this dark abyss is a terrible, profound and compelling lesson for the whole of europe. as we stand here today in the beating heart of the european union, we understand very well the mission of memory that we all share. we recognise the fact that at the memorial site to which we make pilgrimage, we must remember not only the holocaust and the destruction, but also the sacred alliance forged alongside this horrific disaster. we need to sanctify the memory of the victims. we need to ensure the welfare of the survivors who are still amongst us. we need to teach and educate about the lessons of the historic catastrophe that was the holocaust, and we need to prevent any repetition of these ghastly crimes. today we see movements on the extremes of european and world politics. they proudly raise the ugly banner of anti-semitism, which once more threatens to turn democratic and civilised societies into societies that devour their own people. unfortunately, the picture is very deeply troubling. anti—semitic discourse festers not only within dark regimes, but within the heartlands of the free democratic west. jew-hatred still exists. anti—semitism still exists. holocaust denial still exists. the latest reports point to new records of hatred, as anti-semitism continues to don new guises – and this time it is active. it is alive and kicking, on virtual platforms as well. throughout the internet, viral anti-semitism is spreading at a record pace, at the click of a button, and the distance between a viral video and a physical attack hardly exists at all. the distance between a facebook post and the smashing of headstones in a cemetery is shorter than we would like to think. deranged tweets can kill. they can actually kill. anti-semites draw inspiration and ideas from virtual platforms. they are brainwashed and enraged as a result of unrestrained and unchecked online discourse. i stand before you – you who in your identities, positions and beliefs represent europe’s impressive diversity – at the height of this sacred gathering and in the heart of a place that has always championed partnership in the war against darkness and evil, and the joining of hands to uphold our most basic core moral and human values. and i call on you, elected officials of europe: do not stand by! you must read the warning signs, detect the symptoms of the pandemic of anti-semitism, and fight it at all costs. you must ensure that every jew wanting to live a full jewish life in your countries may do so safely and without fear. it is up to you and your countries to use every tool at your disposal, from education, legislation to security and enforcement, in order to deter and eradicate hatred, racism and anti-semitism in every form. you must instil across europe the understanding that the jewish people’s right to a national and sovereign self-determination is sacred and manifested in our democratic state, the state of israel. this is why, amongst other things, you must move to fully adopt the international holocaust remembrance alliance (ihra) definition of antisemitism. from this plenary, i wish to underscore that there is a fine line between criticism of the state of israel and negation of the state of israel’s existence. it is, of course, acceptable to criticise the state that i head. it is fine to criticise us and it is fine to disagree with us. our country is open to criticism, like all members of the family of nations, and israeli democracy certainly excels in fierce and penetrating internal criticism. however – and this is the important and critical difference – criticism of the state of israel must not cross the line into negation of the very existence of the state of israel, the nation-state of the jewish people, as recognised by the institutions of the international community. casting doubt on the nation-state of the jewish people’s right to exist is not legitimate diplomacy. it is anti-semitism in the full sense of the word, and it must be thoroughly uprooted. (applause)the rule is simple: criticism of us must pass the basic test of fairness and integrity, and it must not cross the line into dehumanisation or delegitimisation. the state of israel rose like a phoenix out of the ashes and the terrible destruction and realised our historic right to a state in our ancient homeland. in a few months, we will celebrate the 75th independence day of our country, whose immense contribution to humanity and to europe in particular – in countless fields including science, agriculture, energy, security, technology, culture, health, education and so much more – is an established fact. we have withstood enormous challenges over many years. we have absorbed waves of jewish immigration from over 100 countries from all corners of the earth. we have established a resilient and democratic society comprised of an unparalleled human mosaic of jews and arabs, people of every religion and faith. we have proven that we can take any action at any time and in every place, to protect our citizens and the jewish people as a whole. we have courageously weathered attacks by our enemies, and no less importantly, we have extended a hand in peace and have forged unprecedented alliances, including the peace accords such as the abraham accords, which have transformed and continue to dramatically transform the middle east. i pray for the day when we can reach the same with our palestinian neighbours as well. an essential and fundamental part of our state’s growth rests on the close and iron—clad ties and alliances with european states and the institutions of the european union. the state of israel and europe are bound together in an unbreakable bond. our shared interests, and even more so, our shared values, dictate our present and shape our future. liberty, equality, justice, peace: these are the fundamental values enshrined in the declaration of independence of the state of israel, which we shall uphold and defend at any cost, and these are also the core values of the european union. i stand here today not only looking at the past, but also for the sake of the future, for the sake of our shared prosperity so that we may act in true partnership, so that we may overcome further challenges together. i call on you and your nations to move to broaden and deepen and strengthen our partnership. there is so much that we can and must do together for our sake, for the sake of the future, and for the sake of future generations. this is a time of trial for all of us. if we believe that the voice of justice has not been silenced, if we believe in another more compassionate humanity, we must work together as a single community, determined and cohesive against the forces of darkness and hatred that threaten to destroy us. as president of the state of israel, i speak first and foremost of the iranian regime, which not only publicly calls for the complete annihilation of my country, the state of israel, but is also murdering its own countrymen and women who are demanding liberty and human and civil rights. it is also stoking civil wars throughout the middle east, playing an active and lethal role in the war in ukraine against ukrainian citizens and developing weapons of mass destruction on the way to dramatically threatening the stability of the entire globe. to finish, my friends, until etty hillesum, the young poet i quoted at the beginning of my speech, was murdered in the gas chambers of auschwitz-birkenau a month and a half before her 30th birthday, she kept writing in her diary. etty wrote about the orphaned children forced to grow up too early, about the love of mankind that had withered and about how much she wanted to live. in her beautiful, moving words she wrote the following: ‘one day we shall be building a whole new world. against every new outrage and very fresh horror we shall put up one more piece of love and goodness.’ love and goodness: that was her dying wish; that was her legacy; that is our duty to pursue – all of us together. ‘may it be your will, master of peace, king to whom peace belongs, to set peace among your israel, your people, and may peace grow until peace is drawn upon every person in the world.’ this is a jewish prayer. may the memory of the victims of the holocaust be eternally etched in our hearts. and may their souls be bound in the bond of life. amen. (the house rose and accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
dear colleagues, kindly remain standing. (the house observed a minute’s silence)we shall now conclude the ceremony with some music. (chen halevi (clarinet) and jenő lisztes (cimbalom) played ‘kaddish’ by maurice ravel.)
let me remind you, dear colleagues, that the inauguration of the permanent holocaust memorial in our house will start at 11:45 in front of the hemicycle just outside here.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday, 26 january 2023.
the minutes and the texts adopted of the sittings of 19 and 26 january are available. can i ask if there are any comments? this does not seem to be the case, and therefore the minutes are approved.
the s&d group has notified me of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees and delegations. these decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and take effect on the date of this announcement.
the envi committee has transmitted a corrigendum to a text adopted by parliament. pursuant to rule 241(4) this corrigendum will be deemed approved unless, no later than 24 hours after its announcement, a request is made by a political group or members reaching at least the low threshold that it be put to the vote. the corrigendum is available on the plenary webpage; its title will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
the libe committee has decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) of the rules of procedure. the report which constitutes the mandate for the negotiations is available on the plenary webpage and its title will be published in the minutes of the sitting. pursuant to rule 71(2), members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold may request in writing by tomorrow, thursday 2 february at midnight, that the decision be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in parliament is made before the deadline, the committee may start the negotiations.
we now come to the order of business. the final draft agenda as adopted by the conference of presidents on 18 january pursuant to rule 157 has been distributed. with the agreement of the political groups, i wish to put to the house the following proposals for changes to the final draft agenda. on thursday, first of all, four reports by mr dzhambazki, mr halicki and ms aubry on the requests for the waiver of the immunity of four members and one report by mr garcía del blanco on the request for the defence of the immunity of a member are added to the votes. then, the vote on the resolution on ‘an eu strategy to boost industrial competitiveness, trade and quality jobs’ is postponed to the february ii part-session. if there are no objections, these changes are approved. we now move to changes requested by political groups, starting with today, wednesday. the epp group has requested that the debate on the council and commission statements on ‘preparation of the special european council meeting of february, in particular the need to develop sustainable solutions in the area of asylum and migration’ be wound up with a resolution to be voted at the next part-session. i give the floor to jeroen lenaers to move the request on behalf of the epp group.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, you already introduced our request quite well, i would say. we have this very important debate this afternoon. ideally, we would like to wind it up with a resolution this week, so we can also very clearly express our expectations to the european leaders about what we expect them [inaudible]. i am given to understand that this is not possible in a short brussels plenary session. so then we would like to request a resolution to wind up the debate in the next plenary session in strasbourg, so we can assess what the european leaders have done in this summit and to also give our opinion on that. this is a crucial european council meeting. 70 % of europeans are concerned about migration, and i think they would very much like to know where this house stands.
can i ask whether any colleague would like to speak against that proposal? if not, we will go straight to the vote. (parliament rejected the request) also for wednesday, the epp group has requested that a commission statement on ‘transparency in the funding of ngos and the protection of eu financial interests’ be added as the third point in the afternoon before the debate on the report by mr gozi. as a consequence, the sitting would be extended until 21:00. i give the floor to monika hohlmeier to move the request on behalf of the epp group.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear colleagues, in line with rule 158 of the rules of procedure, i would like to ask for a debate to be added to the agenda with the title ‘transparency in the funding of ngos and the protection of eu financial interests’. the debate is meant as a reaction to the revelations newly appearing every day about the misconduct of certain ngos like ‘fight against impunity’ and ‘no peace without justice’, which have been directly involved in the latest scandal shaking the european parliament. every day there appear new articles about new ngos, as they have received eu funding for projects, and that means taxpayers’ money. it is our responsibility to look into whether the funds are spent in line with eu rules. the public expects us to address this urgent matter now.
i give the floor to any member who would like to speak against the request.
(parliament rejected the request) president. – also for wednesday – today – the ecr group has requested that a commission statement on ‘public security and the terrorist threat in europe in the light of the recent knife attacks in germany and spain’ be added as the fourth item in the afternoon. i give the floor to jorge buxadé villalba to move the request on behalf of the ecr group.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, as you know, on 25 january a terrorist with an unexecuted expulsion order hacked to death a parson and injured a priest and several parishioners in a church in algeciras, spain. on january 24, another terrorist killed two people and injured multiple others on a train in germany. on 30 january, another knife attack took place in brussels, with at least three people seriously injured. in accordance with article 3 of the treaty on european union, the union is to offer europeans an area of freedom, security and justice in which freedom of movement is guaranteed in the fields of external border control, asylum, immigration, crime prevention and the fight against crime. terrorist attacks are spreading through the cities of europe and our fellow citizens are demanding at least a serious, thorough and informed debate. we therefore propose that a statement be made at this part-session on public security and the terrorist threat in europe in the light of the recent knife attacks in spain and germany.
the answer is 'blue card'. madam president, you are only considering official migrants. in fact, in a country like france alone, we have 400 000 legal entries a year, when you count residence permits, plus isolated minors, plus asylum seekers, the vast majority of whom do not meet the criteria for asylum. and this phenomenon is seen in the 27 countries of the european union, which of course results in millions and millions of migrants arriving, either legally or illegally, but all with the characteristic, in the end, of staying, because very few are expelled, even when they entered or remained illegally or were denied the right to asylum. so today we are facing a real submersion. we have to stop this submersion. it is not doing these people, who come mainly from sub-saharan africa and the maghreb, any service by welcoming them. we uproot them, we prevent the development of these countries. the genuinely humane, just and responsible policy is to do everything possible to ensure that they remain in their countries of origin, instead of causing serious disturbances in europe, both in terms of identity and security, economic and social.
mr president, in 2022, more than 300 000 people illegally crossed the borders of the european union. at present, there are still 600 000 asylum applications pending. 79% of the return decisions of the previous year have not yet been implemented. some 270 000 people who should have been returned to their countries of origin have not been. people like the man responsible for the murder of a vestryman last week in algeciras, spain. a dramatic event which we must prevent from happening again anywhere in europe. to prevent this, europe must step up the protection of its external borders, equip our security forces with the appropriate legal and material resources, reform our migration and asylum policy, and improve return mechanisms. to achieve this, europe must act as one. migration management is not just the responsibility of a few border states. finally, we must not forget the necessary balance between solidarity and responsibility.
mr president, madam minister, sustainable solutions in the area of asylum and migration. what we know is what's not sustainable. it is not sustainable to confuse refugee and immigrant. it is not sustainable to define as irregular those who enter illegally, when the burden of the states falls on any european when he presents his taxes a day later. it is not sustainable to offer work to illegal immigrants when there are millions of unemployed europeans. it is not sustainable that a moroccan citizen, with an expulsion order not executed by the sánchez government, murders a sacristan and wounds a priest and several parishioners in a church in algeciras. it is not sustainable that, of the 682 000 illegal immigrants that eurostat estimates there were in 2021, only half have an expulsion order and 10% of these orders are executed. in spain, it is even worse: more than 30 000 illegal, only 7 000 expulsion orders and we do not even know how many have been executed. who among you will tell the families of the murdered that you continue with your open borders policy? the only solution is to protect the borders. zero tolerance for the rest of the world. he said to the world, "you who obey the law have hope; you who do not obey the law have no hope". we must strengthen the frontiers with european money, combat terrorism, fight the mafias and, of course, establish landing platforms in the countries of origin, as our political group has been calling for. and now it seems that the european people's party has joined this idea.
in writing. both the s&d group and the esd have placed great emphasis on the need to reach tangible agreements on migration management before the end of the legislature. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of specialised agencies for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the european union's own specialised agencies for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. we therefore stress the importance of focusing the efforts of the negotiations not on return but on improving the pathways for regular migration and on strengthening humanitarian channels for asylum seekers. in this way, not only will the humanitarian crisis be alleviated, but solutions will also be found to the demographic challenge and the shortage of labour in some sectors of the union's economy.
in writing. both the s&d group and the esd have placed great emphasis on the need to reach tangible agreements on migration management before the end of the legislature. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of specialised agencies for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the european union's own specialised agencies for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. we therefore stress the importance of focusing the efforts of the negotiations not on return but on improving the pathways for regular migration and on strengthening humanitarian channels for asylum seekers. in this way, not only will the humanitarian crisis be alleviated, but solutions will also be found to the demographic challenge and the shortage of labour in some sectors of the union's economy.
in writing. both the s&d group and the esd have placed great emphasis on the need to reach tangible agreements on migration management before the end of the legislature. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of specialised agencies for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the european union's own specialised agencies for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. we therefore stress the importance of focusing the efforts of the negotiations not on return but on improving the pathways for regular migration and on strengthening humanitarian channels for asylum seekers. in this way, not only will the humanitarian crisis be alleviated, but solutions will also be found to the demographic challenge and the shortage of labour in some sectors of the union's economy.
in writing. both the s&d group and the esd have placed great emphasis on the need to reach tangible agreements on migration management before the end of the legislature. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of specialised agencies for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the european union's own specialised agencies for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. we therefore stress the importance of focusing the efforts of the negotiations not on return but on improving the pathways for regular migration and on strengthening humanitarian channels for asylum seekers. in this way, not only will the humanitarian crisis be alleviated, but solutions will also be found to the demographic challenge and the shortage of labour in some sectors of the union's economy.
in writing. both the s&d group and the esd have placed great emphasis on the need to reach tangible agreements on migration management before the end of the legislature. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of specialised agencies for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the european union's own specialised agencies for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. we therefore stress the importance of focusing the efforts of the negotiations not on return but on improving the pathways for regular migration and on strengthening humanitarian channels for asylum seekers. in this way, not only will the humanitarian crisis be alleviated, but solutions will also be found to the demographic challenge and the shortage of labour in some sectors of the union's economy.
in writing. both the s&d group and the esd have placed great emphasis on the need to reach tangible agreements on migration management before the end of the legislature. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of specialised agencies for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the european union's own specialised agencies for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. we therefore stress the importance of focusing the efforts of the negotiations not on return but on improving the pathways for regular migration and on strengthening humanitarian channels for asylum seekers. in this way, not only will the humanitarian crisis be alleviated, but solutions will also be found to the demographic challenge and the shortage of labour in some sectors of the union's economy.
in writing. both the s&d group and the esd have placed great emphasis on the need to reach tangible agreements on migration management before the end of the legislature. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of specialised agencies for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the european union's own specialised agencies for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. we therefore stress the importance of focusing the efforts of the negotiations not on return but on improving the pathways for regular migration and on strengthening humanitarian channels for asylum seekers. in this way, not only will the humanitarian crisis be alleviated, but solutions will also be found to the demographic challenge and the shortage of labour in some sectors of the union's economy.
madam president, it will be one year since the war, since the aggression and invasion of russia in ukraine. and once again we reiterate our condemnation, as we have been doing from the beginning. but we think that the european union is working in the opposite direction to what the situation requires. we cannot think that we are fighting a war by arming the parties. we cannot think that we are fighting a war by arming that war machine which is nato. wars are not won by peoples, gentlemen. the villages put the dead and misery. wars, in any case, are won by others. so we think it's a mistake to think that by arming you're going to win the war and that you're going to win on the ground. we also think it is a pity that diplomacy has been buried, that the un and the osce are buried six feet underground. we call on the european union to join the call made yesterday by president lula, who, together with china, together with mexico, together with the vatican, is calling for a diplomatic and political exit. let diplomacy silence the noise of tanks and bombs.
madam president, thank you very much for your flexibility and generosity also in this round of incidental request for the use of the word (catch the eye). i'm going to be really very brief. the allies have spent six, seven, eight months debating whether or not to send the tanks to ukraine. and it was very clear from the beginning that it is absolutely necessary to put at the disposal of the government and the people of ukraine all the means available to them to counter this aggression and to regain their sovereignty and territorial integrity. and now the question of delivering long-range missiles and fighter jets is on the table. i say from here, from this house, to the allies, to the west, to nato: please don't waste another six, seven, eight months debating this issue. go straight to make this delivery as soon as possible, because the people of ukraine need it.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, we have all pointed out in this house that polarization is a serious problem in the georgian political system. a political system that seems to revolve around one issue only, which is the situation of mr saakashvili. a situation which it is necessary to remember was deliberately provoked. everyone in this house recommended to mr. saakashvili not to enter the country illegally. mr saakashvili decided to do so in the middle of the election campaign, which has created a situation which now forces those of us who recommended against it to try to resolve the situation. however, my group reiterates a position which we have already expressed. the best thing is a stay of execution of the sentence so that mr saakashvili can receive medical treatment outside the country. for humanitarian reasons, yes, but also because we believe that this would help to create a more standardised, less polarized political agenda and, certainly, with more political energy devoted to getting back on the path of the european union.
in the name of the s&d group. madam president, in this house we have had many opportunities in recent years to express the most justified criticism of the turkish government; of its authorities, not of the country or its admirable civil society. i have said it many times: erdoğan is not turkey and turkey is not erdoğan. it is to turkey, to the nation, to society, to its people, that we must turn with empathy and closeness today. the scale of the devastation is historic, probably only comparable to what happened in haiti in 2010. and the two responses must be of equal size: the domestic response and the european response. our relationship, that of the european union and that of the member states, has been up to the task. within a few hours, the european civil protection mechanisms were in operation, some of them very symbolic, which i would like to highlight here, such as the effort of greece as turkey's immediate neighbour. it is now up to us to maintain this initial effort by creating the means to accompany the reconstruction in safe conditions for the future. turkey is not haiti. turkey is a country that shows its regional character and its enormous state capacities. it is time to prove this by protecting its population and counting on european aid, humanitarian aid and therefore outside political considerations. there will be time for politics.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the compromise is an important part of a comprehensive response to the three major crises of the last few months: this terrible russian war of aggression and the fact that, unfortunately, our dependence has also financed russia - this must end - the high energy prices that still affect many businesses and citizens, and the climate crisis. through this compromise, we're addressing all three crises, and so thank you to everyone who helped. the exclusive powers of the environment committee, for which i was responsible, were particularly controversial. many have been reluctant to intervene in emissions trading. but we have done so, and i think that is the right thing to do, because in the short term it will relieve the burden on the citizens and on industry. but for 2030, we are even raising the ambition again. the signal is clear: if you have any short-term problems finding craftsmen and materials, we will not charge you more than the price. but you should invest as soon as possible, then you'll get a tailwind. and that is the right signal to send out from the vote tomorrow.
rapporteur for the opinion, committee on industry, research and energy. madam president, commissioner, repowereu is the answer that all european citizens have been waiting for to some major concerns that they had and now receive a positive signal: security of electricity supply, electricity and gas prices that are based on a fair element, and not on speculation or on shortfalls in supply that have unfortunately arisen because of the war in ukraine. at the same time: support for those who cannot pay their bills. at the same time: a very strong element of support for those who want to rehabilitate their homes, and for my country, for romania, an extremely important thing - we are the country on the front line, with the largest border with ukraine, if there are, and we are strongly affected, and economically and socially - the measures in the national recovery and resilience plan that are affected by the consequences of the war in ukraine can be adjusted targets, the gauges, so that we can bring the money that the economy of romania also needs, and especially the romanians, so that we can fulfill a very, very important mandate. few people know that we are the ones who also provide gas and electricity to moldova, and we also provide it to ukraine, precisely because we have to show solidarity and show what the european response is to an aggression, such as the one provoked by russia in ukraine.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. if we can produce enough energy at reasonable prices in a sustainable way, we will dominate the fight against climate change worldwide, guarantee the competitiveness of our companies and make our continent more independent of difficult partners. so every penny in such energy infrastructure is right. any acceleration in the approval times for wind turbines, solar plants, storage capacity or hydrogen plants is also exactly what repowereu is aiming for. energy infrastructure is at the heart of our economy and our social fabric. we need to get this done without risking a heart attack. the people at home, the business leaders and the workers of europe expect this, our children - the next generation - deserve this. the regional policy committee has taken responsibility here and has pooled a package totalling over eur 90 billion to make repowereu possible. i would like to thank all the negotiating partners here in parliament, in the commission, but also in the czech presidency of the council. that was intense. we have tried to improve the living conditions of the people of europe in a very short time. again, less talk and more action. we did.
rapporteur for the opinion, committee on agriculture and rural development. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that in the long term the european union needs to strengthen its energy independence. repowereu thus represents the means by which member states can make further investments in the energy sector. they have already understood their own responsibility, so that the energy sector is predominant in national recovery and resilience plans. the commission will also continue to support the development of the energy efficiency and renewable energy technologies in the union. i welcome the outcome of the negotiations and appreciate that the money from agriculture has remained available to farmers. they will do whatever is necessary to ensure food security in these difficult times for the sector. agriculture has been and is an important pillar in a complex of mechanisms including energy independence and climate change. however, it is important that the agricultural sector continues to be allocated substantial financial resources to meet current challenges, including those related to energy. repowereu is proof that any crisis can become an opportunity to be stronger.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members. next week will mark the second anniversary of the entry into force of the regulation establishing the recovery and resilience facility (rrf) which, as you know, has been our pandemic crisis response tool. today, the implementation of the facility is in full speed, with a total of over eur 144 billion already disbursed to member states. at the same time, we need to acknowledge that the implementation of the ambitious national recovery resilience plans is taking place in a challenging context, already mentioned by many of you. russia’s unprovoked and unlawful aggression against ukraine has triggered a massive disruption of the global energy market. it is under these unprecedented circumstances that repowereu was devised with one clear objective: providing affordable, secure and sustainable energy for europe. thanks to its focus on the green transition and resilience, the rrf was put at the centre of the union’s coordinated response to the unprecedented energy crisis. in fact, repowereu showcases the facility’s agility. the commission would like to thank the honourable members for their enormous work on the proposal to introduce repowereu chapters in the national recovery and resilience plans. after numerous rounds of intense negotiations, we believe that the compromise agreement strikes the right balance between urgency and ambition. one of the key elements is the increased financial firepower of the facility. in addition to the eur 225 billion of loans available under the rrf, member states also have access to eur 20 billion of new grants and up to eur 23 billion of grant transfers from other eu funds. these funds can be used to finance a wide set of measures, such as investments in the critical infrastructure to increase energy security and reforms, speeding up permitting to accelerate the rollout of renewables. furthermore, the compromise agreement makes sure that no one is left behind. with high energy prices affecting some more than others, the facility can finance measures addressing energy poverty, providing targeted support to vulnerable households and businesses. the compromise agreement also increases transparency via enhanced stakeholder consultations and also, importantly, the obligation to publish information on the 100 largest final recipients of rrf funds. having data from final recipients was a longstanding demand by the european parliament, and the commission is glad that the two co-legislators agreed to have such a list of the 100 largest recipients of the rrf funds published by the member states. the commission will use this information on the rrf scoreboard. this will help transparency. furthermore, as called for by this house, the proposal effectively encourages cross-border and multi-country projects. since its inception, the recovery and resilience facility has always been more than just a crisis response tool. its key feature is transforming challenges into opportunities. the rrf already had the foresight to put the green transition at the forefront of the post-pandemic recovery. now, with targeted amendments introduced by repowereu, the facility will also play a key role in accelerating the net-zero industrial transition. as outlined in the new green deal industrial plan for the net-zero age, we need to address the structural challenges affecting the competitiveness of our clean tech sector. this is why the commission encourages member states to include in their repowereu chapters measures such as one-stop shops for permitting for clean tech projects or tax breaks for businesses undertaking clean tech investments. the facility can also finance investments to equip the workforce with skills necessary for this industrial transition. together with the green deal industrial plan, the commission also published guidance to help member states access the repowereu funds, explaining the process of modifying their plans and the modalities for preparing repowereu chapters. in this unprecedented context, the commission is working hard with the member states to make the implementation simpler and more efficient. the recovery and resilience facility is built upon one core european value: solidarity – solidarity in the face of the covid pandemic, the energy crisis and the growing global competition in the transition towards a net-zero economy. as my colleague said before your last vote on the proposal, we are strongest when we stand together.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, european citizens, families and businesses are paying a very high price for our excessive dependence on energy. there is no lack of resources for member states to invest in energy efficiency, in renewables. but then we must have a real energy union, and for that, cross-border projects, interconnections are essential. and, timely, we insisted that 35% of the repowereu amount go to this goal. i hope that national egoism will not triumph and that protectionism will not win, because there are people who talk a lot about energy autonomy, but then in the pyrenees in france they do not allow the energy to pass to the building of a real energy union for the benefit of all european citizens. i congratulate the rapporteurs on their work. once again, we are strengthening recovery and resilience plans, we are giving tools to member states. i hope they're up to the challenge.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, first of all, congratulations, especially to the three rapporteurs. this proposal aims to support member states to become independent from russian fossil fuel and accelerate the energy transition with access to loans and additional grants under the rrf. it aims also to help them cope with the short—term effects of the energy crisis, bringing down the high energy bills european consumers face because of the war, increasing the energy supply by including natural gas projects and cross—border projects under certain provisions within the necessary energy transition, and also improving our infrastructure. it is also important that member states would be able to receive funding for addressing energy poverty for households and smes. there is also a provision that allows member states to adjust their plan in relation with consequences of the war, including inflation. and, a final word, having in mind the continuing high inflation and how this is affecting the living conditions of our citizens and small businesses, we are in need of adequate additional eu funding, and also with the revision of economic governance.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, dear commissioner, in europe, we’re making a historic effort right now to achieve our energy autonomy as soon as possible and forever. never again should a foreign country think that it has the european union under its thumb. both repowereu and now the green deal industrial plan should greatly boost strategic investments in energy. however, the most difficult job remains ahead: getting the funds into the real economy in an effective way. how? first, governments should take advantage of repowereu to introduce more effective measures in their recovery plans. they should follow the example of the us inflation reduction act and replace complex calls for subsidies with simple tax reductions. let’s also use the example of repowereu for the green deal industrial plan by turning state aid into an eu instrument. i propose that the new temporary framework for state aid should incentivise cross—border cooperation between our companies: more companies from different member states involved, larger the state aid. but let’s face it, more money won’t solve our problems unless we learn to use it smartly.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, we were told that this plan was intended to strengthen europe's strategic independence by enabling germany to do without russian gas by 2027. today we are dependent on american shale gas. i have said it before and i will say it again: the categorical inclusion in this plan of decarbonised, abundant and affordable nuclear energy would have enabled us to contribute to our reindustrialisation, a condition for our independence and competitiveness, especially in relation to the united states, which is being boosted by the biden plan, and which is probably not unaware of this parameter. from the european right of mr weber to the german left of chancellor scholz to the centrist presidency of the european commission of mrs von der leyen, everyone is ready to sacrifice us. because, in the meantime, who is punished for all these mistakes, all these errors, all these aberrations? who pays the price? they are our compatriots, the youngest, the most precarious, the oldest and all the rest. they don't thank you.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1768/92 on the common organization of the market in wine (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). we need to move towards a strategic vision of the future that is sustainable in the long term. further electrification and the increase in the use of hydrogen will present additional challenges. a sustainable transition without a prominent role for nuclear energy is, in my view, doomed to failure. we're gonna have to face this sooner or later. there are a number of pitfalls, both in terms of funding and spending of repowereu, leading to fragmentation of policies and resources. the aim is to reduce energy dependency, to provide sustainable alternatives and to establish solid internal energy networks. let us not, therefore, deviate from these objectives. i therefore call for the use of resources to be monitored closely, as is the case with the recovery and resilience facility. respected institutions such as olaf, the european court of auditors and europol are sounding the alarm in this respect, at a time when the eu budget is under severe pressure. it is no longer justifiable that in these circumstances two thirds of the eu budget should remain inviolable and unquestionable.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the recovery fund is a positive step and repower eu is making a positive and insufficient step based on a compromise. the european parliament's negotiating team has passed on several of our positions to this compromise. but the big problem, the big drawback, is that we're trying to fund the response to the war in ukraine and the energy crisis with the money that we decided to use to respond to the pandemic. and that's not enough. that is why the solution is inadequate to deal with precision, the energy crisis and the increase in social inequalities. it is necessary to have new, fresh money, a common european response with additional common borrowing, as proposed by mrs lenarčič, the responsible commissioner, mr gentiloni, but not adopted by the commission, to meet its additional needs, and the position of the european parliament is that the new needs and new objectives must be financed with additional funds and not by recycling existing and insufficient funds.
madam president, please. in december, the council finally approved the hungarian recovery plan. we will complete the agreed super milestones and milestones by march. the repowereu chapter already has a government decision to allocate eur 700 million to energy efficiency, increasing the share of alternative energy sources and strengthening the electricity system. it was not good for relations, however, that the commission had to negotiate new terms after the ones previously agreed. good faith requires not only that one party enforce the agreement but also that the other party avoid creating new obstacles. and that's what happened in december. i trust that the commission will stick to what was promised last monday by commissioners dombrovskis and gentiloni at the meeting of the relevant ep committees. they do not impose new, and certainly not political, conditions on the fulfilment of commitments. i hope we can consider this a guarantee. i am confident that by paying the funds, the commission will eliminate the unequal situation that hungary and poland are currently experiencing in the single market.
madam president, commissioner, without a doubt, the approval of the repowereu chapter today within the framework of the recovery and resilience fund is very good news, because we are giving solutions to the real problems caused by russia's illegal invasion of ukraine, giving resolution to the serious crisis of inflation and the serious crisis that high energy prices are causing for european households and businesses alike. but this is the beginning of europe's reaction and we cannot congratulate ourselves on a programme whose results we are not yet able to measure, to measure its impact. our responsibility - the responsibility of parliament and the commission - does not end with the adoption of this amendment, which i hope will take place tomorrow. the day is over when we can tell the europeans what the money has been spent on, assure them that the money has been well spent and also assure them that the necessary reforms that were envisaged in the original design of this programme have been undertaken. i therefore ask you, commissioner, to understand that the most important thing is now beginning. we must ensure that every penny goes to the intended purpose, which is to make europe more competitive and to create more productive businesses. and more importantly, we have an immense responsibility to future generations who will have to pay back this money. it therefore begins today, and it begins with the commission's responsibility to ensure that, with good co-governance, with business, with regions, with municipalities, we are able to ensure that the funds are properly implemented.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. madam president, commissioner, one of the most important innovations of the maastricht treaty was the introduction of european citizenship, including the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament and also in municipal elections. we have at the moment more than 13 million citizens living in another member state of the european union. it is therefore essential that these citizens should be able to exercise their right to vote and stand as candidates in the electoral processes, both in the european parliament and in local elections. unfortunately, these citizens face too many administrative and information barriers, especially people with disabilities. it is therefore time to remove these barriers. we ask that this report be taken into account to include at least three objectives in particular: to provide more facilities for registering as residents and voters, to provide more and better information about the elections in an official language they understand, and, thirdly, to look after the needs of the most vulnerable groups by making voting accessible to people with disabilities, the elderly and the homeless. i also think it would be very important to ensure that postal voting is used in all the member states of the european union.
madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, this debate, first of all, is not about real civil society organizations. there are thousands of them working in europe for people. it’s not about them. it is about the political manipulators that have taken the eu hostage. it’s about the shady ngos that produce politically—biased reports, which are then copy-pasted into european union positions and documents. the current corruption scandal highlights the severity of this issue. some of these ngos – to whom the eu has left the doors wide open and has given them thousands and millions and millions of european taxpayers’ money – it turns out that they are really front organisations involved in criminal deals and activities. that’s the real scandal here! the commission should have demanded maximum transparency from these ngos – as the eu court of auditors demanded years ago, in a document. instead of that, ngos are continuously given privileges and exemptions. that must stop immediately! we cannot allow ngos to continue manipulating european positions – especially on topics such as human rights and the rule of law. it is time for transparency and accountability!
madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues. the accusation in the room, made by prosecutors, is that a small number of individuals have created a so-called non-governmental organisation and have used this so-called ngo to influence democratic processes in the european parliament. the accusation is also that money has flown, and this is grave. i believe that we, as members of the european parliament have, the obligation to protect european democracy, to understand exactly how this was possible and to make sure that this will not happen in the future. ngos are a very important part of our democracy, of our societies. very often, ngos give voice to those who need support. very often, ngos fight for democracy, for freedom of speech, for human rights. the many honest and strong and good ngos are, of course, to be distinguished from the small number of ngos who have tried in an illegitimate and unlawful way to influence the opinion of the european parliament. as we have rules here in parliament, for members of parliament and for everyone entering, we should have rules for ngos as well. these rules should allow us to identify wrongdoings, to prevent wrongdoings, and to make sure that never again in the future a process which happened recently will happen again. it should allow us to make sure that such a case remains an exceptional case, and it should allow us to make sure that in the future members and ngos can work well together in a predictable environment, but based on the rules. particularly in the case of ngos which obtain financial support from the european union and participate in the eu public debate, i need to say we need transparency. we need to know who is behind these ngos and how they obtain their financing. this is important for the credibility of ngos, for the credibility of our european parliament.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am listening to this debate and i have asked myself the question all along: what is this all about? why are we discussing this today? ngos registered in the transparency register must disclose their funding. yeah, they are now. ngos which do not disclose their funding should not speak to us members of parliament very gladly. please help me to intensify this. should ngos be tackled more severely than commercial lobbyists? no, not at all. why would you do that? you want to get tough on everybody? i'd like that very much. no, ladies and gentlemen, i have not. it 's about this . tango is a two-man show. it's about whether and how we let those in authority influence us. the colleague spoke of manipulation. so it's up to us to reject that influence. and there cannot be colleagues who copy and paste amendments from corporate lobbyists to the eu supply chain act and bring them into the proceedings. that's the scandal. we must act against this and not play a one-sided blame game of ngos here.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union, which can no longer ignore the scandal, is now questioning the financing of ngos. after seeing nothing coming in the ranks of his majority about qatargate, it was time. of course, the questioning is limited to ngos that have already been publicly compromised. there's no point in looking any further, because there's plenty of filth to be found. nor is there any mention of the often identical political orientation of the corrupt: socialists, federalists, human rightsists and, of course, opponents of our political group. to fill these gaps, i invite you to read the excellent report by my german colleague joachim kuhs on eu funding of ngos. this report shows how the european union has outsourced its policy to ngos, which are used as agents of influence, to the point that they can be described as quasi-governmental organisations. the european union uses these ngos, which it calls 'civil society', in preference to national authorities, and this, paradoxically, because public authorities are biased, or even corrupt, while ngos are independent. how sad when you see the ideology and corruption that prevail! the ngos of the famous george soros have received more than €25 million. more importantly, financial support to ngos close to the islamists. for example, 550,000 euros donated to islamic relief in germany, linked to hamas, hezbollah and the muslim brotherhood. another €1.16 million was given to the european network against racism, whose director was a member of the muslim brotherhood until 2008. so there is a lot of collusion and corruption in this opaque world of ngos, but the european union will not do anything about it because it is profiting from it. thank you.
madam president, commissioner, the qatargate scandal had to happen, that is, they had to steal in broad daylight, so that this parliament could pretend to do something and admit that perhaps these entities should be investigated a little. we have been warning the whole legislature that all community legislation on the financing of ngos must be reviewed and that the bleeding of public funds must be stopped. if ngos were a country, they would be the fifth largest economy in the world, an opaque power that manages billions of public dollars without voter control, capable of influencing elections and destabilizing governments. they operate freely in the corridors of this parliament and the commission and, when they are not paid by qatar, morocco or china, they work for multinationals and oligarchs like soros, or directly for the orders of vile mafias like those of human trafficking in the mediterranean, or promoting the islamization of europe and the subjugation of women, like femyso, linked to the muslim brotherhood. every european company is audited to the last public euro it receives. but ngos live in the paradise of impunity. perhaps it is time that the national parliaments started asking for missions to brussels to find out how and what money is spent here.
in writing. the socialists believe that what has happened should not call into question the integrity and contribution of civil society organisations involved in eu policy-making, and in particular the work of the parliament's subcommittee on human rights. something that has been questioned by the far right during the debate and vox in particular. the socialists, on the other hand, call for us to be much more demanding and careful so that these types of fraudulent organisations do not receive financial aid or be able to collaborate actively with the eu institutions. we socialists also believe that transparency and accountability are a precondition for citizens' trust in the union's institutions and that corruption and fraud therefore represent a constant danger to the integrity of public decision-making. for this reason, and with the aim of being an exemplary organisation in terms of transparency, accountability and integrity, we have adopted a set of rules which will be in addition to those adopted by parliament.
in writing. the socialists believe that what has happened should not call into question the integrity and contribution of civil society organisations involved in eu policy-making, and in particular the work of the parliament's subcommittee on human rights. something that has been questioned by the far right during the debate and vox in particular. on the contrary, we socialists demand that we should be much more demanding and cautious so that these types of fraudulent organisations do not receive financial aid or be able to collaborate actively with the eu institutions. we socialists also believe that transparency and accountability are a precondition for citizens' trust in the union's institutions and that corruption and fraud therefore represent a constant danger to the integrity of public decision-making. for this reason, and with the aim of being an exemplary organisation in terms of transparency, accountability and integrity, we have adopted a set of rules which will be in addition to those adopted by parliament.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, today europe is looking to space for its ambitions. and we do so with an ambitious plan to deploy our own constellation of satellites. a project that will have, in security and in connectivity, its two main pillars. it is about ensuring our sovereignty also in space to ensure that we are not dependent on the infrastructure of third countries, as happened to us in the invasion of ukraine. with this constellation we will be able to provide uninterrupted and secure access to telecommunications services and thus protect our critical infrastructure. we will also have eyes of our own wherever needed in times of crisis, whether natural disasters, diplomatic missions or military strategies. but it will also provide broadband access throughout europe, avoiding rural or remote areas being cut off. depopulation policies cannot be understood without a stable satellite internet connection, such as the one we are proposing today. and finally, this will be an exemplary constellation in terms of spatial and environmental sustainability. it only remains, dear christophe, to thank you for your exceptional work to make this constellation possible.
madam president, the right has once again blocked a debate in this house on the brutal repression suffered by the peruvian people for protesting against the removal from office of a president elected by popular vote. peruvians are in the streets fighting against the constitution of dictator fujimori, which shields corruption, perpetuates racism and allows multinationals to continue to plunder natural resources. last week i was in lima on a mission organized by my group and we were able to see on the ground the result of two months of de facto government. almost 70 dead, nearly 2000 wounded, an unprecedented and growing number of detainees and disappeared persons, the persecution and criminalization of trade unions, human rights organizations, peasants and indigenous peoples, and the raids of universities with tanks. the european union cannot look the other way. we therefore call on the government to stop all sales of arms and riot control equipment which they are using against their own people and to send a high-level mission to denounce these human rights violations.
madam president, commissioner, today we are voting on one of the most important pieces of legislation of this parliament: the ban on combustion vehicles from 2035, with all that this implies for our cities, but also for industry, a strategic industry which includes not only large companies but also small producers, and which has made europe a world leader. that is why i regard three points in today's vote as fundamental. first, we have to give the sector security so that it can direct its investments towards electrification. the rules of the game don't have to be changed every five years, nor do we have to put more brakes on them or more sticks on the wheels. i am referring, for example, to euro 7. secondly, this ambition cannot be understood unless we guarantee the recharging points. we need binding country targets and we cannot reduce our ambition in afir by a single iota. thirdly, this whole process has to be done by industry and that is why it was very important to me that this regulation should include a review clause in 2027 whereby the available technologies, the annual progress and implementation are assessed and thus ensure, together with the industry, that it is feasible to reach 2035.
mr president, mr vice-president, we have a debate this morning which i think offers us a set of very interesting questions. do we have to reduce co2 emissions and therefore warming, when cars and vans emit a fifth of those emissions? the answer seems to be a clear yes. we want sustainable, affordable, clean mobility. but how many times have we spoken in our chamber about this kind of mobility? how many? a majority of this house, not just progressive, a large majority. do we want to transform our industry to adapt to technological changes, even lead them, in a sector where it is being said that the united states and china are ahead of us? the answer is yes. so if we make the decision to end the sale of combustion vehicles by 2035, we achieve those three big goals: we reduce emissions, we promote sustainable mobility, and we transform the sector to be competitive. so i hope that the debate will help us to strengthen and consolidate a majority which we started with the european green deal, from which we cannot today disengage.
mr president, commissioner, many of us here share a common objective: to reduce emissions in the transport sector and to achieve climate neutrality. however, it is clear that the way to achieve this goal differs between us. that is why the agreement we voted on today in this parliament raises a number of doubts. i am personally and deeply sorry that a basic principle that many of us have been defending for many years has not been upheld: technological neutrality. electrification of the mobile fleet is an option, yes, of course, but it's not the only option, because as long as we're going exclusively electric, the rest of the world will continue to bet and invest on getting much more efficient combustion engines, much more sustainable, or technological alternatives beyond purely electric. by banning combustion engines from 2035, here in europe we will have unilaterally created our own competitive disadvantage. and, what is worse, i fear that this policy on emissions for cars and vans will set the road map for heavy vehicles. these measures, commissioner, still have a much higher social and economic cost for the citizens.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i ask you: can we allow ideological conventions to be used to create international legal instruments which undermine national laws? the european union should not take a position on or adhere to an international convention which calls on its parties to include a particular approach, in this case the gender approach. nor should it force member states to ratify, because in many cases it is contrary to their own constitutions. the istanbul convention aims to have a legislative scope in the criminal law that terminates the right of action against that of author. i mean, it's based on prejudice rather than actual criminal acts. the aim of combating and preventing violence against women and domestic violence should not be in contradiction with respect for the right to equality and non-discrimination. it is a pity that all the time wasted, resources wasted and efforts wasted in following documents based on twisted theories against nature that focus on generating social division, mistrust and confrontation between the sexes. let's do the opposite. let's foster contexts where men and women build a society together, integrating their lives in peace and harmony. family plays an essential role. it's the rational place where we share and receive affection, where education in virtue allows people to decide to do good. as dostoevsky said, beauty will save the world. in a world without beauty, there can be no love that makes us free and allows us to live in peace. legislators, please, in this direction.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, madam commissioner, in these almost four years of our term of office we have spoken countless times about the importance of the european union ratifying the istanbul convention once and for all. we have condemned countless times the hoaxes, lies and disinformation campaigns of a far right nostalgic for the middle ages. we have been astonished to see turkey withdraw from the convention and to see the threats from poland, a failed state governed by the rule of law, sitting in the council. we have seen how the labelling of gender-based violence as a euro-crime has been rejected, despite the fight and the position of parliament and the way that has weighed on the proposal for a directive we are working on now, because it has left us without a legal basis to be more ambitious and has thus sacrificed the lives of thousands of women in europe. that said, the good news is that unanimity is not required to ratify the istanbul convention. the bad news is that the progressive governments have not fought hard enough and now we can find ourselves faced with the paradox of the swedish presidency being the one to ratify it. purplewashing: marketing for a government conditioned by the far right that is five minutes away from stealing our wallet. because not only is it important that the istanbul convention be ratified, but it must be done from a feminist approach that seriously addresses gender-based violence. since he's late, at least he's done well.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the accession of the european union to the istanbul convention is a necessary step towards the implementation of effective legal and political measures to prevent and combat gender-based violence. we cannot remain hostage to those member states which are calling the convention into question, delaying its ratification and implementation or expressing a desire to withdraw. these countries show that they do not want to help women to enjoy the same level of protection in the union against the various forms of violence and discrimination. they undermine joint efforts to improve assistance to victims, to denounce and prosecute perpetrators, and to protect the enjoyment of women's fundamental rights and freedoms, their full participation in social, political and working life. on the basis of the opinion of the court of justice of the european union, the council should then proceed to conclude its work on ratification of the convention in a timely manner. we make all the conditions possible to enable women to live free from violence.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. at european union level, one in three women has been the victim of physical or sexual violence, with 17 million victims every year. the findings and statistics are useful, but we are lagging behind in terms of progress. have we exhausted all the european tools available to us, as we should, to combat gender-based violence and to support and protect victims? transnational cooperation between member states and the development of legislation have contributed, as has the fact that reports of violence by victims are increasing. but effectively addressing this leading problem requires zero tolerance on the one hand, and on the other hand, the immediate ratification of the istanbul convention by all member states of the european union, because as the most robust piece of legislation, it is the key to ensuring a life free of violence for all women and girls across europe and beyond.
blue-card speech. – dear colleague, any kind of violence against women is really something awful and completely unacceptable. but the istanbul convention is not a new document: 12 years ago the council of europe adopted this document. my very clear question for you is, if you can tell me: is there one single state which ratified the istanbul convention and that in this country the violence against women decreased? so, we are listening every few months here to your poetry about this whole document. but we are not here because of the poetry. we are here because of results. we need a result concerning this violence. so please, i asked a simple question ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, we have been waiting for six years for the council to ratify the istanbul convention so that the european union can do so as a party to it. six years is undoubtedly too long, but when 50 women are killed every week in the european union, it is a real shame. this is unacceptable. first, the council told us that there were legal problems, that unanimity was needed, allowing the most reactionary countries on equality, such as poland - which announced three years ago that it would withdraw its signature from the convention - and bulgaria, the czech republic, latvia, lithuania, hungary and slovakia, which have not yet ratified the convention, to set the political agenda for all: parliament and the commission. that is why now, after the judgment of 6 october 2021, when we know, according to the court of justice, that there is no legal problem, that the convention can be ratified by the council by a qualified majority, it is time to do so. we owe it to all the victims of violence in the european union: to them, to their families, to the motherless orphans who are victims of this brutal violence against women.
madam president, the fight against violence against women must have a national and european response. we must work together to end abuse and inequality. in spain we have ratified the istanbul convention. as a minister, we have achieved a historic state pact against gender-based violence and we are now calling for the council to ratify it immediately. because that is the way, because we have to work and think about the women victims, and also their children. but let me say one thing: it is unacceptable that today steps are being taken backwards in the protection of women. this is what is happening in spain because of a left-wing government which has passed a law that has already resulted in the reduction of the sentences of 500 sexual offenders and the release of more than 40 of them. and no one takes political responsibility. to wave banners and shout to the four winds that they are feminists, they have too much strength. but to apologize and correct mistakes at the moment, they are not, nor are they expected. we need to be rigorous, serious and less propaganda when it comes to defending women and their children.
mr president, commissioner, the csw's commitment to innovation and technological change is very good, but we must not forget the violent use that can be made of certain technologies, which mostly affect women and girls. one in ten europeans has experienced some form of cyber violence since the age of 15. 52% of young women and girls in this world have experienced online abuse, one in five girls has abandoned or significantly reduced their use of social media platforms after being harassed, one in ten has changed the way they express themselves. those numbers increase exponentially when they are targeted for reasons of race, ethnicity, gender identity and sexual orientation. and in europe, women in parliament are not spared either. finally, in the technological advances we can not underestimate this data, because it is as important to ensure access to technology as its proper use. i am therefore pleased with the effort being made in the framework of the current proposal for a directive on violence against women to put an end to cyber violence. i do regret that i cannot attend the csw meeting because my group is not represented, despite the efforts of mr biedroń and the enormous work i do and have always done for and for women.
mr president, commissioner, minister, in a world that is being digitally transformed, digital is often hostile to women and girls. think about cyberbullying or the sexist work cultures in tech sectors that are also the most future-oriented. only 19% of ict specialists are women. only 1% of the venture capital available for innovation, very much focused on this digital present and future, is going to women. and obviously, this is reflected in the choices of women and girls, who don't opt for these studies. but, look, we can't just insist that girls choose these studies while socializing them into other different values. we must therefore act together, integrally, and also give prestige to professions and care that are feminized, so that children can also choose them and we must break stereotypes without, in the process, underestimating everything that our societies associate with women. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one. we must do this without demanding one thing from the girls and the opposite at the same time.
mr president, madam commissioner, the creation of an independent eu ethics body is a crucial first step in restoring public trust in the european union after the qatargate scandal. however, given its nature of interinstitutional agreement, with the timelines needed for such an act, there is an important necessity to use all our means to prevent such cases of corruption or misconduct from being repeated. president metsola’s package is a good start but we can and we must do more. i am thinking, for example, about the need to clearly define conflict of interest and strictly regulate the phenomenon of the revolving doors to ensure transparency on the decision-making for our parliament in the bureau as well as in the cop. there is an issue that i believe we must immediately fix to build a more democratic and accountable europe. in 2019, the eu finally adopted a dedicated and comprehensive directive on whistle-blower protection, which does not include the staff members of the eu institutions, agencies and bodies. speaking up is one of the hardest acts a person can do. it requires immense courage and sacrifice. we must encourage our whistle-blowers and we must protect them in the moment in which they will denounce.
mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to begin by welcoming this initiative by the commission and its president and also support the proposal as presented by the commissioner. i think it is very important to think the proposal through, because it is not easy to create a new interinstitutional body. on the other hand, it is clear that the european union has rules in its institutions. they are often better than the rules in individual member states, but individual failures are simply not always caught or create the conditions for failure to occur. the qatargate case therefore shows the need to develop this subject further and to actually prepare such an institution, because i think that a certain independent external assessment of the rules applicable in individual european institutions, but also in specific cases, is important. i think it's also important to set the rules within the institutions, and that external assessment, as i said, i think it just gives those institutions and those institutions that important feedback. it should concern both ethical and financial rules, certainly cooperation possible and permissible with non-profit organisations, but also with third parties. where else should this organization, or this department, or this body, intervene? i do not think that it is out of the question to investigate individual cases. no doubt they must include areas of conflict of interest, financial regulations, inappropriate behavior. i think these are all the topics that need to be opened up. and if anyone objects that the freedom to exercise our mandate is limited, then i must say that it cannot be unlimited.
mr president, as long as there is someone tempted by corruption and others willing to corrupt, our institutions will be exposed to corruption. therefore, we must adopt rules and mechanisms that minimise and possibly eradicate the chances for corrupt practices and corrupt individuals to make their way into our institutions. the qatargate and moroccogate scandals have made it clear that our rules on transparency, integrity, anti-corruption and the use of public money must be improved, and we are working on that. but what is particularly needed are mechanisms to ensure that the rules we already have and the ones we will have in the near future are enforced. where we dramatically fail is in oversight, in supervising and controlling the compliance with the rules and in sanctioning when such rules are broken. in 2021, this parliament already proposed establishing an independent ethics body to oversee them and the maintenance of standards of integrity with the same rules for at least the commission and parliament, taking into account their different powers and competences. and despite the fact that president von der leyen promised to do so, thus far, the commission has not presented any proposal in this regard. now, with a corruption scandal seriously affecting our credibility more than ever, it is time to move forward with this proposal and therefore i welcome the announcement made by vice-president jourová in the sense that the commission will table a concrete proposal in the coming weeks. i hope it will come really in a short time and we are looking very much forward to that proposal.
mr president, it was necessary for a socialist vice-president of this parliament to be in prison today so that we would know about qatargate, moroccogate and corruption, which may have been the key to a policy of privilege in morocco that has seriously damaged spain's interests. but these arrests were also necessary to let us know about the ngo fight impunity, one of the hundreds of leftist ngos that swarm this chamber. they do so with complete freedom, as we know, with mr panzeri, with the socialist cazeneuve, with the pro-communist mogherini and with emma bonino, who was a member of the santer commission which had to resign en bloc in 1999. this is not just happening in parliament, what we see here is so painful. borrell, with the socialist group, coordinates with the embassy of cuba "a dictatorship" its actions. borrell justified delcy rodríguez's arrival in spain in violation of european union sanctions and leaving 40 suitcases behind, which we do not know where they have gone. a drug dealer sanctioned by the european union and a member of a criminal government. we don't know anything about huawei apologists either. why do they do it? do they do it for free? what about pfizergate? where are the messages exchanged by von der leyen with the ceo of pfizer, bourla? they said they were bringing them in. they haven't shown up, as we know. we do not need new ethical codes, nor do we need new fees for new diets. what is needed here is honesty and love of the truth. that, for many here, is prevented by their ideology.
mr president, commissioner, the creation of an independent european ethics body was one of the commitments of president von der leyen as early as 2019, and this parliament recalled and called for it in september 2021. it's the year 2023. after one of the biggest cases of corruption in the european institutions has been uncovered and i understand that it is certainly a complex issue, it is undeniable that the time to do so is now. the european institutions already have strict rules and we are working to strengthen them, but they are of little use if we do not ensure that all members and staff of the institutions strictly comply with them. we must not forget that corruption, fraud and other unethical behaviour not only seriously damage the credibility of the whole union, but also have important financial consequences for the european budget. this parliament has shown a great capacity to react to cases of corruption, but now we must show the political will to go further and create that european ethics body which ensures full implementation of the highest ethical standards in all european institutions and which ensures that decisions are taken in the common interest of the citizens. we must create a body which has a preventive role through awareness raising and guidance, which can make recommendations on ethical issues, including conflicts of interest, which monitors compliance with the rules in force, which has the capacity to investigate on its own initiative and independently, all this in collaboration and complementing its action with that of the anti-fraud office, the european public prosecutor's office, the court of auditors, the ombudsman and europol, and, above all, which helps to restore citizens' trust in the european union. only in this way will we strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the union.
mr. president, the cradle of democratic hope in north africa in 2011 is now nothing more than ashes of what it could have been. while many countries had failed in their attempt, tunisia glimpsed hope and progress in its 2014 constitution. today the arab spring is dead. the outgoing president is the one most responsible for the critical situation in tunisia. he annulled the 2014 constitution, suspended the powers of parliament and his policies worsened the country's precarious economic situation. the most curious thing of all is that saied swore an oath to a constitution he never respected. the european union cannot turn a blind eye to this dictator. the european union cannot tolerate an electoral farce like the one that took place in december. the question in tunisia is not whether there will be a revolution or not. the question is when and how it will be carried out. the european union must take a stand and be closer than ever to the tunisians. today, with a war on our borders, we have shown once again that maintaining a stable neighbourhood is absolutely vital for the progress of our europe and our neighbours. that is why the european union must look again at the mediterranean. it must demand political dialogue in tunisia, while offering stability and opportunity to the country. because, ladies and gentlemen, the success of tunisia - a country that is right across the table from us - also depends on our progress and our security.
mr president, mr othmar karas, mr josep borrell, high representative, thank you for your speech this morning. i fully agree with that idea that diplomacy is also a tool at our disposal, along with all the military support that should go to ukraine, always keeping in mind that the objective must be a just peace, that is, that ukraine regains its sovereignty and its territorial integrity. in that sense, we saw today in the financial times a new headline: 'russians amassing aircraft within striking range of ukraine target'. we have indeed been too slow. a year ago, it was said that the help of tanks and fighter planes would arrive too late, but no one knows how long the war will last. this strategy could therefore have been even more effective. in one year of war, ukraine has regained half of the territory initially occupied by russia. let's go to more and more quickly.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, the decline of press freedom in greece is nothing new. organizations such as reporters without borders have warned of all kinds of attacks on the practice of journalism, from impediments to freely cover migration issues to the risk of losing one's life. the case of greece is alarming, but it is only a symptom of a disease that is spreading. illegal eavesdropping on journalists and political opponents; media in few hands and, in some cases, closely linked to the political elite; laws that muzzle freedom of expression: as you see, some or all of the trends we see in greece would also serve to describe other member states, including some that claim to be full democracies. so if there are still people who have doubts about the importance of having a european press freedom law, in this debate they should be resolved. having the media freedom act on the table is good news and we will work to make it a strong, ambitious regulation and one that reflects the importance of media independence and pluralism as public goods. this regulation, together with other legislative measures such as the anti-slapp directive or the report that will come out of the pegasus commission of inquiry, should be the cornerstone of a democratic and resilient media ecosystem in europe. without freedom of the press there is no rule of law. and we'll be on our toes because, as the washington post reminds us, democracy often dies in the dark.
madam president, when there are baseless accusations of a most serious nature against the most serious politicians of the european union, i think you should react to it. please listen to what the speakers, what the members, say, and we expect the presidium, yourself, to react.
i take note of that, thank you for your comments.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, in my country, greece, the country where democracy was born, we have been experiencing over the last four years a rapid degradation of democracy, a great erosion of the rule of law, a glaring contraction of press freedom and pluralism. and the political responsibility for this great setback, which you have heard recorded by commissioner mcguinness and the commission report and by the more diplomatic statements of the council and by the rapporteur of the european parliament and the committee responsible, my colleague sophie in 't veld, who is a centre-right mep from the netherlands and not a syriza member. the political responsibility has a name: kyriakos mitsotakis. kyriakos mitsotakis in brussels appears as a political centre-right with european flair and in athens he uses authoritarian practices not only through predator but also through the spa, which is under his control, reminiscent of the east german stasi. i want to believe, if not say i am sure, that nikos androulakis, the victim of these methods, will contribute to making greece a modern democratic european country that does not resemble poland and hungary, and that we will have another government and another prime minister in the next elections. my country, dear colleagues of the new democracy, is not discredited by those who defend truth, democracy and transparency, but by those who diminish democracy and the rule of law.
madam president, council, commissioner, dear colleagues. i believe that the rule of law is indeed under constraint across the european union, and not only in hungary or poland, but this must not be a shabby peeking exercise for some political groups, especially when the criterion is the colour of the government and the electoral period. mr babiš was received by president macron. we all know mr babiš’s commitment to the rule of law. mr fico is supported by the s&d group in slovakia. we all know mr fico’s commitment to the rule of law. the spanish minister of justice declared in this house that the constitutional court is a political court. is this any commitment to the rule of law? by the way, mr papadimoulis, stasi supporters are in your group – the portuguese communists always supported the ddr. they are your colleagues in your left group. since the very beginning, while taking revelations, the greek government fully cooperated with all institutions, this parliament and the national parliament. political responsibility was assumed; the people in charge were removed from office, and unique measures were taken even in the field of media freedom. can you say the same about similar revelations in spain, in malta, in hungary or poland? the rule of law deserves our full attention at all times in all member states. even in the best functioning democracies, there are always some issues of rule of law, but that is not the essential problem. the question is what they do to address them. that is the test, and the greek government... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, commissioner, madam president-in-office of the council, once again we are debating in the european parliament the erosion of the rule of law and of information pluralism. and we do it with reason. since the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs instructed the commission - commissioner for justice didier reynders - to draw up an annual report on the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights in the european union, we have known that there are states where there is a clear risk of systematic violation of the common values of the union. but in all the member states there can be problems of erosion of the rule of law and of the loss of freedoms which we consider to be fundamental. this is the case with the concentration of the media, which is being discussed today in greece. it is important to know that this debate does not concern just one member state, but the whole of the union. the violation of the fundamental rights enshrined in the charter, in article 8 of our colleague mr androulakis, is of course a matter of concern to the whole of the union. it is unlikely that anyone would claim that there can be a security threat that would justify a mass interception of their telephone and personal communications with such an intrusive instrument and, in my view, so incompatible with the guarantee of fundamental rights in the charter, as the pegasus tool and, in the greek case, the predator spyware tool. i think it is completely unacceptable that in a member state the media should be concentrated in very few hands, particularly those close to the government. because it is unacceptable that journalists are threatened in the european union for carrying out their investigative work. because it is unacceptable that a murder of a journalist has occurred and is rarely mentioned in the debates of this house, as is the case of georgios karaivaz, in 2021, still not clarified. because it is completely unacceptable that there is no vigilance in each member state in anticipation of what must be the strict enforcement of european law, which is currently under way: the anti-slapp directive, which, for everyone's understanding, is a directive to prevent intimidation through litigation or complaints against independent journalists; the european media freedom legislation media freedom act, which aims to protect, precisely, not only freedom of information, but information pluralism; and what we hope will be the conclusions of the pegasus commission of inquiry of which i am a member, which will hopefully establish a framework, no longer regulatory, but of banning such intrusive tools for the confidentiality of personal data and personal communications, as are pegasus and predator.
madam president! when democracy is destroyed in any member state of the european union, we have to shout, so i'm glad there's this debate. this is where we have to react. the european commission must indeed react swiftly, decisively and forcefully. today, we are talking about the degradation of democracy in the cradle of democracy. isn't this a tragic conversation? we're talking about destroying a free media, intimidating journalists. we were with the pegasus commission in greece and we heard such tragic, terrible stories. i wish we had enough time to share them with you here. the use of such spyware against journalists and political opponents is an absolute scandal. i very much hope that the special committee, the committee of inquiry that we have set up here in the european parliament, will actually help the greek citizens, the journalists, to strengthen democracy, to preserve civil rights, human rights, also in other countries, not only in greece, and that it will free them from the threat of these terrible practices.
madam president, the scandal of wiretapping in greece has been spreading unceasingly and, as is often the case in such cases, there are already so many victims that it is becoming increasingly difficult to find the culprit, because there are many victims and few beneficiaries. it is clear that in all european countries a dynamic of state consolidation is being created at the expense of citizens' rights. we are seeing it dramatically in spain. but the lack of transparency is something that affects all of us. here was speaking lópez aguilar before the problem of the lack of rights that is being created everywhere and very particularly in spain. in that sense, i think the alarm has to start here. but, as far as transparency is concerned, the commission should start by explaining to us, for example, what it says in those messages it had with the head of pfizer talking about vaccines. when we know that and we have transparency here, we can ask mr mitsotakis for transparency and we can ask for it elsewhere. meanwhile, we're here talking to the void.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, it seems we have not had enough with the dozens of dead at the fence in melilla. nor with the frontex scandals, the violation of human rights and the violent expulsion of refugees. it seems that we are no longer shocked by the hot returns, the denial of the right to asylum or the criminalization of ngos; it even seems that we are no longer so bothered by hearing the racist arguments of the far right. it is now acceptable to negotiate a clearly xenophobic migration policy, which denies fundamental rights such as protection to those fleeing wars and conflicts, to continue financing fences or to talk about safe countries to deport human beings without any guarantee. it is not true that migration is a problem; quite the contrary. it is only necessary to work for this, to allocate funds to the places of arrival, to propose strategies for a dignified reception and to promote a border policy that respects rights and facilitates safe and secure migration. it is time for meloni and orbán to stop controlling the european migration agenda.
madam president, mrs lagarde, the decisions you take at the european central bank are a nightmare for any working family. they know perfectly well, because they have already come out to recognize it, that their commitment to raising interest rates is not holding back inflation, because it has to do with energy prices. therefore, their decisions, which are of course politically conditioned, but by those who do not stand for election, are a cheap trick to continue to swell the pockets of the financial elites and the banks at the cost of impoverishing the workers, among other things, by the brutal increase in mortgages. it is a waste and a mockery which, on top of that, i have already threatened to maintain and increase. i know it's complicated for you, but for a change, it would be great, it would be great, if you stopped ruling against the people. that's okay because the banks don't make a year's worth of billions of euros in obscene profits. please stop being a toxic asset to the public.
madam president, madam minister, access to key and strategic raw materials is essential for the green and digital transitions, which will enable us to achieve climate neutrality and also strategic autonomy in this new geo-strategic context of profound transformation of the international order as we know it. the production and processing of these materials is now very concentrated and the european union is, as we know, heavily dependent on imports, which creates dependence and jeopardises the achievement of strategic autonomy. that is why a european law guaranteeing its supply is very welcome. on the one hand, by encouraging production, recycling and also research and innovation within the european union, so that this activity is based on environmental, social and economic sustainability. and here in parliament we will work with local actors to ensure that this is indeed the case and that quality jobs are also guaranteed. on the other hand, we know that we must draw up, as is being done, strategic alliances with other countries, especially in research and innovation, without falling into neocolonial dynamics.
madam president, the digital green transition could be very good if we all paid for it, if it were fair and in line with the planet's limits, which are quite clear, except for terraforming, but not if we replace coal mines with lithium mines or fertile fields with mega wind farms; not if we convert some territories into new colonies for others by fragmenting the european map; not if we sacrifice the life and health of the poorest to increase the profits of the old-timers, those who were once brick speculators and are now extra activists; not if we put even more pressure on depopulated areas to occupy the land and drive people out as if this were the conquest of the west; not if we eliminate environmental requirements to favour the environment, ecologically, because speed and voracity are not sustainable. digital green transition in extremadura, my region, in spain; mega-mining; macro-mining of lithium; macro-city of leisure; macro-sugar mills; macro-photovoltaics; mega-rainfall; intensive crops; mega-factories of industrial toxic waste, giant landfills: a party is in full swing. i mean, ecological transition, yes, but not like this.
in writing. for the socialists, it is a central and geo-strategic issue, as these materials are key to the digital and energy transitions and to industries in those sectors, such as renewable energy technology, electronics, aerospace and defence. in addition, both production and processing are now highly concentrated, and the european union is heavily dependent on imports, creating dependencies that threaten to undermine strategic autonomy. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the concept of 'commodity'. we must also continue to build strategic alliances with like-minded countries to ensure secure and sustainable access to critical raw materials that enable climate neutrality. in short, we must prevent the eu from replacing its dependence on fossil fuels with a dependence on raw materials.
in writing. for the socialists, it is a central and geo-strategic issue, as these materials are key to the digital and energy transitions and to industries in those sectors, such as renewable energy technology, electronics, aerospace and defence. in addition, both production and processing are now highly concentrated, and the european union is heavily dependent on imports, creating dependencies that threaten to undermine strategic autonomy. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the concept of 'commodity'. we must also continue to build strategic alliances with like-minded countries to ensure secure and sustainable access to critical raw materials that enable climate neutrality. in short, we must prevent the eu from replacing its dependence on fossil fuels with a dependence on raw materials.
in writing. for the socialists, it is a central and geo-strategic issue, as these materials are key to the digital and energy transitions and to industries in those sectors, such as renewable energy technology, electronics, aerospace and defence. in addition, both production and processing are now highly concentrated, and the european union is heavily dependent on imports, creating dependencies that threaten to undermine strategic autonomy. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the concept of 'commodity'. we must also continue to build strategic alliances with like-minded countries to ensure secure and sustainable access to critical raw materials that enable climate neutrality. in short, we must prevent the eu from replacing its dependence on fossil fuels with a dependence on raw materials.
in writing. for the socialists, it is a central and geo-strategic issue, as these materials are key to the digital and energy transitions and to industries in those sectors, such as renewable energy technology, electronics, aerospace and defence. in addition, both production and processing are now highly concentrated, and the european union is heavily dependent on imports, creating dependencies that threaten to undermine strategic autonomy. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the concept of 'commodity'. we must also continue to build strategic alliances with like-minded countries to ensure secure and sustainable access to critical raw materials that enable climate neutrality. in short, we must prevent the eu from replacing its dependence on fossil fuels with a dependence on raw materials.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i remember when i was a little kid, i used to collect stamps. some of the most beautiful stamps were the stamps of swaziland. the stamps of a very exotic country and at that time i associated with the great exotic, with travel. i remembered this country, which today is called eswatini. i never thought that after a few decades, i would not associate it with philatelicism, with stamps, but with the violation of human rights. this enclave in south africa (one of four in the world, one of two on the african continent, the other is lesotho) is an example of how, after years of violence, when apartheid was in those areas, human rights violations are unfortunately happening again. now someone else is the author. it's good that we're protesting today over divisions.
for the ppe group. madam president, as i have already said, swaziland is an absolute monarchy, but that does not entitle it, this country, to practices that are truly unacceptable. the restriction of human rights, the outlawing of political parties and, in fact, the use of violence against opponents of the regime, against representatives of the monarchy, is truly unacceptable. if we are witnessing today even the murder of thulani masek, a prominent lawyer and chairman of the pro-democracy movement, then we must unequivocally condemn it. we need to call on this country to provide security guarantees for its representatives of the various pro-democracy groups. we are witnessing the exact opposite process. the security forces have been systematically and systematically intimidating all political activists, trade unionists and opponents. we unequivocally condemn the death of thulani masek, but it must be said that we will demand more from this country, because we are also providing support to this country. we must call for an independent and impartial investigation. the african commission on human rights is on hand. we want to call for respect for fundamental human rights, for dialogue with the representatives of the pro-democracy groups concerned and, of course, for the release of imprisoned human rights defenders, but also of members of parliament. we have mps in prison in this country, and that is completely unacceptable to us. it's a violation of basic political rights. as i said, what we have as tools is, of course, a diplomatic effort, but also a possible temporary suspension of programmes for swaziland, and i think that is also a tool that we should not be afraid to use.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, on 21 january this year, two bullets went through the window of thulani maseko's house and killed this lawyer, political activist, leader of the multisectoral forum (msf) of political parties and civil society groups, who was leading the campaign for democracy in the kingdom, and was also a human rights defender. by taking nothing and leaving a trail of death, the killers have recorded the message that fighting for human, social and political rights remains dangerous and highly lethal in eswatini. this murder is the latest in a series of episodes in this country of widespread restrictions on rights, freedoms and guarantees, arbitrary detention and repression, and restrictions on the most basic social rights. i therefore call on the eswatini authorities to grant the right to freedom of expression, demonstration and the formation of political parties, to promote effective social dialogue and to ensure that its citizens - including political prisoners - enjoy the rights, freedoms and guarantees recognised by the agreements and treaties to which the country is a signatory, in particular the cotonou agreement and the universal declaration of human rights.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the assassination of thulani rudolf maseko, the human rights lawyer and chairperson of the multi-stakeholder forum, on 21 january in his house, came as a shock to all of us. our thoughts and sincere condolences are with mr maseko’s family, with his friends and community. the european union has publicly and strongly condemned this despicable act and looks forward to the results of the investigation already launched by the authorities. a speedy, effective, transparent and independent investigation is of paramount importance. the eswatini authorities need to ensure the safety of all its citizens, including political activists and human rights defenders. the civic space must be protected. this tragic loss comes in a row of killings, arson attacks and other violent acts which have destabilised the country over the past months. it is high time that a comprehensive and inclusive dialogue is launched on terms facilitated by the southern african development community towards national reconciliation, respect for human rights and the rule of law, and ultimately lasting peace. the european union has repeatedly raised its strong concerns about the situation in the country, through constant engagement, including with his majesty king mswati iii, with the eswatini government and with the southern african development community. the european union raises the issue of eswatini systematically in all political dialogues with the southern african development community member states. moreover, high representative borrell discussed the situation in the country during his recent visit to south africa and botswana. the european union supports the southern african development community efforts and equally understands an inclusive national dialogue is a peacebuilding tool. the european union welcomed the communiqué of the extraordinary southern african development community troika summit two weeks ago, urging the government of eswatini to urgently initiate the process of the national dialogue and urging all stakeholders in the kingdom of eswatini to remain calm and participate peacefully in the national dialogue. the protracted incarceration and the repeated denial of bail of two members of the eswatini parliament is also a cause of concern. their right to a fair trial and due process needs to be respected, in line with eswatini’s national and international obligations. with regard to the implementation of the multiannual indicative programme under ndici-global europe that was mentioned in this debate, i would like to recall that following the violence in 2021, it was already decided then that future eu programmes will be designed to directly benefit people at the grassroots level, supporting notably non-governmental organisations. the objective is to boost socioeconomic rights that should go hand in hand with the civil and political rights empowerment of the citizens and vulnerable groups. we shall keep monitoring developments in eswatini, calling on the authorities to fully respect fundamental rights enshrined in their constitution, laws and in international and regional conventions to which they have freely assigned to. we will insist on the need to advance democracy, the rule of law and respect of human rights for all. this is crucial for the people of eswatini.
author. madam president, first of all, i would like to express my deepest condolences to the family of julio obama mefuman, who died on 15 january 2023 in a prison in equatorial guinea. what this parliament is asking for today in the resolution that we have negotiated with all the political groups is simple. first, the repatriation of julio obama's body to spain. julio obama had dual citizenship of equatorial guinea and spain. therefore, he was also a citizen of the european union. he was imprisoned for his opposition to the regime of teodoro obiang, which has lasted forty-four years, all my life. secondly, we call for the immediate release of his fellow opposition members: feliciano efa mangue, martin obiang ondo and bienvenido ndong ondo, three political prisoners who were also kidnapped in south sudan and taken to equatorial guinea in a sort of new operation condor on the african continent. there they were imprisoned and subjected to inhuman torture, in total disregard of international law and with very limited consular access which, fortunately - and i thank you for that - the spanish embassy was able to provide. no one should die or suffer for their ideas. these activists deserve all our support and all our protection. we therefore call on the equatoguinean authorities to put an end to this harassment and arbitrary detention, both inside and outside the country.
madam president, equatorial guinea is ruled by a dictatorial regime which has been systematically violating human rights since 1979, a regime which persecutes and harasses political opposition inside and outside the country, carrying out kidnappings, torture and extrajudicial killings. the regime of dictator teodoro obiang nguema kidnapped in south sudan at the end of 2019 four opponents, who were illegally transferred to equatorial guinea in the presidential plane, two of them with dual spanish and equatoguinean nationality: the gentlemen julio obama and feliciano efa. both were tried without bail and sentenced in 2020 to 60 and 90 years in prison. since then they have been subjected to constant torture, until mr obama died on 15 january this year, probably as a result of this torture. twenty years after the last resolution on equatorial guinea, this parliament breaks its silence and condemns and holds the equatorial guinean regime responsible for the death of mr obama. it demands an end to the persecution of the opposition and the immediate release of all political prisoners. we know that these demands will not be met and therefore we are calling for concrete action: that the criminal network of monitoring and kidnapping of opponents in europe be investigated; that all cooperation with the regime be conditional on respect for human rights and that sanctions be imposed on the members of the regime. in conclusion, i hope that this resolution will give the people of equatorial guinea the feeling that europe is not forgetting them and the hope that we will work for a democratic future for equatorial guinea.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is precisely debates like this that show me again and again how madly happy i am to be a european citizen because we can be in opposition here without fear of death. obama mefuman did not have this privilege: he was abducted from equatorial guinea, kidnapped from south sudan, arrested, presumably tortured and then murdered. we call on you, commissioner, to work towards sanctioning the obiang regime, to make it clear that we do not accept this. and to all the other oppositionists in the world, to all the other oppositionists in all the dictatorships in the world, whether it's in uganda, whether it's in china, whether it's in chad, whether it's in belarus or cameroon: we stand with you when it comes to defending your rights. we will fight for you to fight with us for a free, liberal world. we in the european parliament generally stand by these very values when we say: no, we do not want opposition members to go to prison for their political work. we don't want them to fear for their lives. we won't accept this! and we're sending a very clear signal: we see you, we hear you, and we're going to make sure that you don't go down and that you are heard.
author. madam president, i will tell you the same story, but with something that some have forgotten here. it's this unfortunate incident in dictatorship with the world's most senior dictator. in november 2019, four members of the opposition two of spanish nationality are kidnapped in south sudan by obiang agents. after being imprisoned and tortured in guinea, they are sentenced for attempted coup d'état to sixty to ninety years in prison. spanish police have evidence that carmelo obiang, a son of the dictator who lives in spain, is the author of the kidnapping. spanish judge santiago pedraz issues a warrant for his arrest, but a few days later, as police were preparing to arrest him, he revokes it. send a request to obiang, public, no secret summons now. this one, logically, runs away. then one of the convicted spaniards dies in prison: julio obama mefuman. now the socialists want to condemn in generic terms obiang and his dictatorship, but they forget and want to forget the succulent business relationships of socialist leaders of the psoe, such as josé bono, miguel ángel moratinos and rodríguez zapatero, with obiang's dictatorship. we condemn the crimes of the dictatorship, but the spanish government must explain what happened so that judge pedraz allowed the guilty man to escape, revoking that secret of summation and the arrest warrant. we want to know.
madam president, i’ve just listened attentively to the colleague, and i don’t think she referred to the debate that we were having.
madam president, first of all i would like to express my full solidarity, that of my socialist group and, i would also say, i am sure, that of the entire spanish people and the european people, to navalny for this inhuman and unjust situation. we must certainly do everything possible within the european union to secure their release, and not just for humanitarian reasons. because i am convinced that sooner rather than later ukraine will prevail in this war and, also sooner rather than later, the putin regime will collapse in russia. then we can meet - "re-meet" with a free and democratic russia that returns to the european nations. and navalny, among others, will be instrumental in building that new order: a europe, let us remember, from the atlantic to the urals, free and united.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the war in ukraine has shown how dependent our agricultural model is on imports of synthetic fertilisers from russia. in the european union, the consumption of synthetic nitrogen pollutes more than commercial aviation. the fertilizer industry is racking up the bad points as a climate killer, polluting the air, water and soil. it also violates human rights by poisoning the populations in the areas where it is extracted, particularly phosphate. it is opportunistic, by war, with the recording of exceptional profits in 2022. as if this were not enough, society as a whole is paying the price for our dependence on synthetic nitrogen fertilisers, which represent an average cost of 37 billion extra for the european population. how can we still support such an industry with taxpayers' money? these little nitrate balls are climate, economic and health bombs. reducing our dependence is not enough: we must change the farming model in depth. it is not enough to just hold up goals; we should stick to this and put the human and economic resources to work with our farmers in this transition, by reviewing our national strategic plans and relocating our means of production. the availability of fertilisers for the european union will find its future in agronomic systems and certainly not in industrial, climate-destroying chemistry.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in the face of the extraordinary crisis in the agricultural sector, caused by the increase in fertiliser prices, the commission has responded with initiatives - and the commissioner has stressed this - which are acceptable but ordinary in the face of a situation which, as has been said, is extraordinary. it requires a leap in awareness and a leap in quality. scientific innovation helps us meet the challenge of building a model that is sustainable, both environmentally and economically. there are new generation of biofertilizers of animal origin, as well as new types of chemical fertilisers, which allow the reduction of the quantity of product while maintaining the same performance, but which have not received sufficient attention so far. it is now possible to build biogas plants for the production of fertilisers and energy at reasonable cost, which reduce the quantity of product produced while maintaining the same performance, shortening the supply chain and reducing the dependence of european countries on extra-eu imports. such innovations should be promoted and supported by the union in the form of incentives and facilities for a production model capable of taking the sector beyond the current difficulties towards a future where new scientific knowledge is at the service of a renewed environmental awareness.
madam president, this commission communication was as necessary as it was expected, because at the moment we cannot ignore our farmers, who are the weakest and most exploited link in the food chain. we must guarantee their supplies, strengthen the cap budget and use the budgetary resources needed to increase funds and reduce debt, for example by applying a levy to fertiliser companies which, in the last two years alone, have quadrupled their profits. as the countryside braces for the end of the month, it seems there are a few that are getting fatter. finally, we must have a long-term strategy that ensures both sustainability and food security, for example by promoting organic fertilisers and reducing chemicals in our land. that is why it is not understandable that parliament should want to revise the nitrates directive, which seems to die before it is born and has hardly been implemented, because the problem is the price and scarcity of chemical fertilisers and not the lack of nutrients in the soil.
madam president, commissioner, i believe that the debate we are having this morning is really about food security in europe, but also in the rest of the world, more than the question of fertilisers. and to ensure that safety, we need fertilisers, fertilisers that are available in sufficient quantities and accessible at the right price to the agricultural world. how then? how can this be ensured in a particularly difficult international context? i think we need to focus on three types of tools. first of all, we need additional financial aid in this period of mounting difficulties. production costs are soaring, inflation is affecting existing aid, and farmers are being held back. we also need a framework to take our practices further, and i hope for a clear and rapid commitment from the european commission to explore new genomic techniques. finally, commissioner, the agricultural sector offers many solutions, and we must encourage their development: we must invest massively in precision agriculture, we must think about the use of manure or digestate, which is produced by methanisation. the solutions exist, they are at hand, but today we need massive investments.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we have spoken a lot and rightly about food safety over the past year. the russian war in ukraine has created a world crisis, including for mineral fertilisers, which is putting the entire food chain at risk, and is reaching our tables with an increase in food prices. gas accounts for about 80% of the production costs for the manufacture of fertilisers. we can no longer afford to have this used against us, even as a political weapon. we need a coordinated european response, one that supports our farmers and reduces our dependence on imports, in the short term but also in the long term. biodiversity - we always say this - is a european treasure. we must preserve and increase it, as we must also improve the quality of our soils. we need a european protein strategy to focus on the cultivation of legumes, which are essential for better nitrogen fixation and therefore for healthy soil. digitisation, precision farming, dissemination and sharing: this must be the compass to guide us in the agriculture of tomorrow. let us remember that to reap tomorrow, we need to sow today.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, before we can find solutions to a problem, we must first make the right diagnosis. it is therefore important to remember that the conflict in the west of our continent has disastrous repercussions for the whole of the western world, and in particular for the countries of the european union. in this communication, the european commission says it wants to limit the negative impact of the conflict on the movement of mineral fertilisers. at the same time, the commission does not want to encourage the use of diplomacy between the two parties to initiate a peace process, but, on the contrary, it is in favour of the crystallization of relations and thus the deepening of the conflict. it therefore deplores the effects of what it cherishes as causes. secondly, the commission said it wanted to encourage diversification of imports in order to reduce dependence on russia for food and fertilisers. this is putting a bandage on an open wound, and it is not a solution for the countries of the european union. if we want to guarantee our food sovereignty, do you not think that we should take a different path instead of replacing one addiction with another? on the contrary, should we not try to get back to producing on our own soil, through protectionist policies, in these key sectors? this is the spirit of a europe that protects, rather than a europe that exposes. but unfortunately, this is not what the current european institutions are advocating.
madam president, commissioner, the situation of agriculture in 2022 was dramatic and it is not getting any better at the beginning of 2023. the union's green policies are partly responsible for this crisis, encouraging rural abandonment and exodus. our food security and food sovereignty are at stake. the problem of access to fertilisers and their costs is more acute than ever, so the spanish government or the european commission have already established effective short-term solutions. since the end of 2021, the price has gone up 200%. however, the european commission's communication does not provide any answers to improve access to fertilisers and to prevent european farmers from paying for the most expensive fertilisers in the world. the price increase affects production and profitability, condemning farmers to ruin and abandonment. tensions in the market? they're not responsible. the rules, especially the nitrates directive, need to be changed, transparency needs to be improved and import duties on nitrogen fertilisers temporarily suspended. the european commission's proposals for state aid are few and far between. strong action is needed to increase european fertiliser production, ensure competition and ensure availability to our farmers. and that is why, today, exceptionally, we will vote in favour of the resolution.
madam president, since the beginning of the war, the cost of the purchase basket has been rising steadily, partly because of the high price of fertilisers, of which gas accounts for 80% of the manufacturing costs. putin knows what he's doing. but the european citizens also need to know what the european union is going to do to deal with this situation. the long-term measures are very good. you, commissioner, have spoken of the progress of ammonia-based fertilisers from green hydrogen. that's very good. in spain we have the first company in the world to manufacture hydrogen fertilisers and not emit co2 into the atmosphere. you are invited to meet her, by the way, in my region, in puertollano. but of course, with great potential, it still has a long way to go in the medium and long term. therefore, we need immediate help. it seems to me that it is bad news that the european commission has no intention of taking any further action in the near future. they cannot deposit the full weight of the aid with the member states. my country has already done it: 300 million. but they must harmonize their response and aid is unavoidable. it has to come from the european commission. we also ask you to make progress in improving the transparency of the fertiliser market to avoid market distortions. in short, you have to act now. we ask for quick and accurate answers in the face of an untenable situation.
madam president, mrs o'reilly, we congratulate you on another year of your work as an advocate for the european people, working to make the european institutions closer, more accessible and more transparent to the citizens. the committee on budgetary control insists that transparency, good administration and accountability are fundamental principles for protecting the european budget and maintaining credibility in the union. parliament needs to be exemplary in this respect and we should therefore take very seriously the recommendations made by the ombudsman, such as the need to strengthen the ethical and transparency framework, publish lobby meetings, strengthen the internal ethics committee or present more detailed declarations of interests and more effective controls. as rapporteur for parliament's report on the discharge for the financial year 2021, i welcome these recommendations and have taken them up in my report, but we cannot forget that the ombudsman has pointed out as maladministration the lack of transparency on the part of the bureau in the review of general expenditure. and i add, in addition to more transparency, there should have been more ambition. we question and control the other institutions, the member states, but when we talk about our budget, there, the attitude changes. ladies and gentlemen, we must lead by example.
the commission has already done so. i negotiated this report for the s&d group and i want to emphasise once again that policy coherence in the sense of development - what we call pcd - is one of the central processes for our relations with the global south. when we make decisions in europe, they very often have repercussions in all parts of the world, with all our partners. so we have to do a much better job of reviewing our own policies to make sure that there are no negative impacts in the global south in the first place. the report has put forward proposals for all the european institutions on how we can actually implement this policy coherence in a systematic way in the interests of development. commissioner timmermans, if i may borrow your picture, you said in the debate on the 'fit for 55' package: we cannot afford the luxury of slowing down. i am borrowing this, and i think we do not have the luxury of not actually implementing this policy coherence honestly and seriously, if we really want to have a partnership on an equal footing with the global south.
mr president, a cooperation policy, if it is consistent with a dimension of effective solidarity, should be based on the capacity for independence, sovereignty and development strategies of countries, leveraging, among other things, their productive and strategic sectors and the economic and social progress of states. the european union's policy of development cooperation has, on the contrary, been an expression of the interests of the european powers and the major economic groups, who seek profit, the opening of markets, the liberalization of trade relations, the control and exploitation of resources and wealth, even at the cost of growing inequalities, regional destabilization or even war. conditionalities of a different nature are imposed, interfering with the sovereign choices of states. dependencies and external debts were growing, as part of a persistent neocolonial debt portfolio. it is urgent to work towards a framework of effective cooperation between equals and in the mutual interest, in the framework of respect for sovereignty, international law, with a view to social progress, solidarity and peace.
mr president, policy coherence for development is the concept that binds the sustainable development goals to other eu policies, and it is wonderful that team europe contributes 43% of all overseas aid globally. but do other policies throw a hammer into delicately constructed development gains in our partner countries? if we ignore the transformational benefits of migration by building barriers to safe routes, we are not being coherent. if we block sharing of intellectual property that would allow vaccines to be manufactured in our development partners, we are not being coherent. and if our trade policies fail to sufficiently recognise the need for development, we are not being coherent. i warmly welcome this report, but warn that we are falling very far short of our aspirations.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner urpilainen apologises for not being here tonight. but of course i’ve listened carefully and we’ve jotted down what you’ve said, and i’ll make sure she gets a very faithful report of what was said here tonight so that we can have with european policies an impact on international developments, as you’ve just said. but then our efforts need to be coherent. in my own work, i encounter this a lot. let me give you one example: our sister continent, africa. we want africa to develop for all sorts of reasons for africa, but also for selfish reasons, obviously. and we want africa to go through the energy transition without repeating the mistakes we’ve made. and if we do this in a coherent way, we’ll not just bring clean energy to africa, we will also bring development because it will have a huge positive impact on the health-care situation if women in africa, because mostly women do the cooking, if they no longer have to do the cooking on charcoal but can do it with the help of photovoltaic heat, then they no longer have to inhale the fumes, nor the babies they carry on their back. so it has a huge impact on the development of health. education is another example, and many other examples could be given. so coherence is of the utmost importance, and i work hand-in-hand with commissioner urpilainen to align our actions on this. i want to warmly thank the rapporteur, ms ochojska, if i say it correctly, for her work and, as ms ochojska is someone who watches the stars light years away with the same intensity as she watches her fellow citizens right next to her, and she has throughout her career always paid as much attention to the stars, but much more even to the plight of people in difficult situations. so that she would be the rapporteur on this issue is just an epiphany. it’s right and it’s just, and i want to salute her for being a true humanitarian. commissioner urpilainen asked me to pass on three messages here today. first, since the evaluation of our policies in 2019, we have made progress. under the european consensus development policy, coherence is now a key element of europe’s work on the sustainable development goals under our 2030 agenda. the commission is acting in a very concrete manner to implement this. for example, our impact assessments for new regulations must take into account the effects of the eu legislation on our partner countries. our eu delegations around the world are tasked to monitor the impact closely and we have strengthened their resources to do so. second, the commission is now preparing the first eu voluntary review on our development policies and this will include reporting on development policy coherence. we will present the results at the united nations in july this year. third, we take the external evaluations of the results of our work very seriously. we will continue to make improvements whenever and wherever necessary. during its mid-term review, the oecd already noted our clear progress in this field. the bigger picture: collaboration will be essential going forward. in the commission, we see development policy coherence as a responsibility for everyone. so in this sense, team europe goes beyond what we traditionally define as team europe, it applies to the whole of the commission. but we also need to cooperate very closely with you, with parliament. we would welcome very much working with you on development policy coherence so that together we can also ask for a more proactive role from the council and the member states. only by joining forces, we can ensure that something happens. i will do then my work on climate and energy diplomacy, and i know that it will be done in all other policy areas as well. our european efforts to try and build a sustainable society of the future will work best if we do not just not leave anyone behind in europe, but if we also leave no one behind in the rest of the world.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 14 march. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. policy coherence for development (pdc), enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union (article 208) and known since the maastricht treaty, cannot be opposed on principle. but it must be admitted that the scope of this obligation is still vague: is it a matter for the european union to adapt its policies to the possible repercussions on developing countries, or is it simply a duty to provide information? furthermore, the confusion between the dpc and the integration of the sustainable development goals into european policies has accentuated this artistic blur. indeed, while the sdg and the millennium development goals tended to focus on poverty reduction, agenda 2030 has a much broader ambition. finally, it is clear that the report actually advocates a strengthening of european diplomacy and development aid, in the latter case under the pretext of remedying any adverse effects of european policies. given the current levels of aid (the union and the member states are still the world leaders), such a blank cheque cannot be approved.
the next item on the agenda is the report by urmas paet on a european parliament recommendation to the council and the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy taking stock of the functioning of the eeas and for a stronger eu in the world [2021/2065(ini)] (a9-0045/2023). mr paet is not present yet. we are searching for him, but i do not want to interrupt the debate, so i propose that we continue, and i invite executive vice—president timmermans to take the floor and hope mr paet will join us very soon.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i don’t want to cause a timmermans overdose tonight, but here i am again on another subject. on behalf of high representative borrell, i would like to thank the rapporteur, urmas paet, even if he’s not here yet. we know each other because we were foreign ministers together at the same time, so i have known urmas for many years. i would like to thank him and all those who contributed to this report on the functioning of the european external action service and for a stronger europe in the world. in 2019, at the beginning of this legislature, we set out to build a stronger europe in the world – a geopolitical europe capable of speaking the language of power. since then, the strategic environment of the european union has radically changed. today we are living in a world of multiple crises. i think it was jean-claude juncker who coined the expression ‘polycrisis’, and this is exactly where we are today. it brings with it a lot of uncertainty to systems, but also to individual citizens. the brutal war of aggression russia is waging against ukraine has led to a geopolitical realignment. we are faced with the weaponisation of interdependencies, whether it’s on energy or raw materials, medical and pharmaceutical products, migration or technologies. the consequences of the climate crisis are becoming ever more apparent, and the international order is being challenged and is being reshaped as we speak. at the same time, competition between the us and china is becoming the main structuring force of the global order. this new environment is not a return to the bipolar world of the cold war. i would say, rather, that it’s a messy multi-polarity in which partners around the world, such as turkey, india, brazil, south africa, nigeria, mexico and indonesia, may lean one way or the other, depending on the issue and based on their interests. as the european union, we have to be proactive. when designing our policies, we need to factor in how others will perceive them and how they will affect them. this matters, as our ambition is to continue setting global standards. to meet these historical challenges – as your report actually points out – we need a strong external action policy that is capable of defending our values and our democracies with a united and strong voice, and supported by a state-of-the-art european diplomatic service. as the eu’s diplomatic service, the role of the eeas is to support the high representative in steering the union in the tasks assigned by the treaty, and to steer and ensure a coordinated and coherent eu external action and policies, including on the external dimension of the eu’s internal policies. this is fundamental to guarantee the eu’s role as a reliable and responsible actor on the world stage. we therefore welcome the support of parliament in ensuring that the eeas is guaranteed the necessary space and resources to be fit for purpose. as your report testifies, the eu’s working methods and our decision-making processes in foreign policy are often very complex. we therefore need to continue doing our utmost to facilitate swift decisions to respond to global challenges, uniting all 27 member states, so that we can speak on the global stage with one strong voice. our message needs to be amplified across the world with all our european diplomatic tools, the delegations, the embassies of the member states, and there is also a very important role for your own parliamentary diplomacy. an important tool that you also mention in your report to improve our capacity to respond to crises worldwide is a new crisis response centre under the authority of the eeas. the crises of the past, whether in afghanistan or the sahel, have shown the need for a centre that brings together the 24/7 situation room, diplomatic security, consular affairs and crisis management capabilities. here, once again, we welcome your support for this important initiative. finally, let me welcome your support for the establishment of a european diplomatic academy. this will be a key tool to create an esprit de corps and a common european diplomatic culture. in the last three years, we filled our geopolitical europe with substantial operational content. we must sustain our strategic unity and build on the robust response to the russian war of aggression against ukraine. this moment of geostrategic awakening must be translated into a more lasting increase of the eu’s influence in the world, including through strengthening the eu’s security and defence capabilities – a must in a world increasingly defined by strategic competition. we know that we have the support of this house and that of european citizens, as the last eurobarometer shows. defending european values, such as freedom and democracy, and the interests of the eu with a single strong voice is our priority, and we could not do it without the strong support of this house. thank you, and i look forward to the debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. in my absence, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr urmas paet. i hope the russians didn't put him in a dark corner so he couldn't be here. we agree on a lot of things. we must become more relevant in foreign and security policy. this has long been the view of parliament and indeed of most governments. we all know that. only together are we strong. only together can we impress others. only when people know that we are on the same journey will others turn to us in the hope that together we can make a difference. if we act with power, together and permanently, for example, in the matter of ukraine, then a war criminal knows that he has underestimated us. the rest of the world is watching us - all those who would like to engage with us as good partners in the long term, but who notice when the west retreats. we cannot allow this to happen to us in our core area of interest after afghanistan and the sahel. then we come to the crucial point: it is good to have all of us in one voice. but i think it would make little difference to the addressee of a measure or to observing third parties if one of the 27 is missing. so, for the present, if we have a message to convey to the georgian government, for example, that government would not be able to buy it if mr o from u did not agree. but if we can't say anything on the ground because of a unanimous vote requirement, then the wrong people are profiting. if such local statements do not even lead to a blocking minority, then there is a lot of evidence that the majority is right. i would also find it rather strange, for example, if statements or measures taken against certain states could be prevented from being unanimous by the former colonial masters. that is why one of our key recommendations in article 1 (g) is that we limit the principle of unanimity to decisions on the creation and deployment of military missions or operations with executive mandate and that we can decide on sanctions and other measures or simple verbal notes by qualified majority. i think it would make a difference.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr paet, i thank you for your flexibility in the negotiation of this document and for resisting the federalist approach of the epp, which in this report has advocated the removal of the council's powers in foreign policy and the communitization of this policy, bypassing the treaties, by the way. i think this report is necessary because in foreign policy we jump from one crisis to another and there is very little reflection on the instruments of such foreign policy and on its faces: who represents, who defines, who executes foreign policy? it is based on a rather confusing legal framework. i would say that in foreign policy there are many faces and many egos. and i would recommend letting borrell work, who doesn't seem too concerned about the height of his chair. i believe that the improvement of these instruments of our foreign policy requires diplomacy that is genuinely european diplomacy. the idea of the diplomatic school, which commissioner timmermans has mentioned, is an idea that came out of this parliament. we need to improve our intelligence capability in foreign crises. we need to create a flow of intelligence from national intelligence services to brussels so that we are well informed and not blindly acting. the incent must therefore be strengthened. we must have a european cultural diplomacy that is not a simple mix of national cultural diplomacies; we must seek a new position for the european union in this multilateral world shaken by trump; and we must think about the position of the european union in the united nations security council. to be very practical, how does one go from a french chair to a european union chair in a few years?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the new geopolitical context and the war in ukraine underscore once again the need for a genuine eu foreign policy that is consistent and effective to adapt and respond to today’s challenges. eu external action continues to be embedded by a number of barriers that go from an insufficient common diplomatic culture, a lack of trust between member states and duplication and interinstitutional rivalries within our different institutions. more than 10 years after its creation, the eeas should now be strengthened in order to reinforce the eu’s role as a more proactive, resilient and autonomous actor on the global stage. the eeas should be given a proper political mandate, and we need to introduce qualified majority voting for decision—making in certain eu foreign policy areas, such as sanctions, human rights and the protection of international law, because that would increase our ability to act consistently with our principles. the capacity of the eeas should also be enhanced and in order to ensure good interinstitutional, coordination and integration of all eu policies, in particular those with an external dimension like, for instance, migration, trade and energy. furthermore, my group supports more efforts to improve gender balance within the eeas, particularly in senior management and political positions, both at headquarters and at eu delegations. all combined, those reforms that this report proposes aim at making the eu a more resilient and capable international actor, able to speak and act as one.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, good afternoon to all. the rapporteur urmas paet's report calls for a reform of the european external action service (eeas) to give it more powers and more powers, and also for a back door change in the way the council votes, so that the dominant ideology of the eeas, which is so strong, is now imposed and has no one to oppose it. the war in ukraine has brought some surprises, as if mr borrell was forced, at last, to put himself for once on the right side of history. but, for the rest, borrell's foreign service is still where it was: as a protective force for the criminal regime of the ayatollahs, which despised the abraham accords because they had been achieved by the hated trump, of whom we have just spoken; as a permanent lobby for the dictatorship of cuba, to which the european union, incomprehensibly, continues to pay and subsidize millions to crush its people; and has made a campaign not concealed by the narcocommunist candidates of the são paulo forum, from boric to petro, from lula to arce. by the way, today marks two years of jeanine áñez's imprisonment. jeanine áñez is in jail for carrying out a plan sponsored by the european union and the organization of american states (oas). no one said anything. has he asked for his freedom now? i'm not going! in venezuela, the eeas has invented the conditions for holding elections under the tyrant maduro that are as absurd as they are ridiculous. now, the socialist foreign service is preparing for socialist borrell the socialist semester of sánchez, the road map 2023, as a great operation to legitimize the dictatorships that have been and are in the process of being established, all of them friends of the spanish government. the eeas does not need more money or more size or more power. he needs more commitment to truth and freedom.
mr president, mr timmermans, i thank you for being here today for this debate. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr paet, who was unable to be present. i would like to deal with a more specific issue - because a lot has already been said - article 31 of the treaty on european union (teu). article 31 teu is very important. why would you do that? because paragraph 2 of the directive allows for many decisions to be taken by qualified majority and, unfortunately, has not been used so far. the implementation of those decisions by qualified majority requires the adoption of a decision on the strategic interests and objectives of the union in accordance with article 22 teu. it turns out that the european council has adopted this document, entitled 'the new strategic agenda' and its last section is precisely entitled 'promoting europe's interests and values in the world'. since it was also adopted by the european council by consensus, the requirements of article 22 of the treaty have therefore been de facto met. the european council has therefore already taken a decision on the union's strategic interests and values. this allows article 31 (2) teu to be applied for the adoption of decisions and actions implementing those strategic interests and values by qualified majority.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. madam president, the digitisation of our economies and societies poses many challenges for europe. the first is, of course, to have a population that is aware of what this change means, and that also has its rights protected. and also, of course, that we are able to be at the level we need to be to be truly competitive on an international scale. and finally, and to sum up these challenges, let us also be able to somehow distribute equitably the benefits of this digitalization, this jump in productivity, so that the benefits are not just for a few, but for many. in the legal affairs committee we have tried to help, within the framework of the data act, this great objective of creating a single data market, while at the same time creating sufficient confidence in the protection of data so that there is really such a transfer between the public and private sectors, and we create added value within the union. we have introduced the figure of the data coordinator to try to give coherence to the whole law and also to support users and smes. and in any case, we have also tried to introduce issues related to illustration in data, with digital illustration, which we think is extremely necessary for society to be able to understand the change that is happening and also the value of its own data. finally, i would like to thank all the alternate rapporteurs in the committee on legal affairs and, of course, i would like to thank the good negotiation and the dialogue we have had with the lead rapporteur.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr nausėda, unfortunately in europe, on many occasions i would say too many , countries are divided according to geography whether they are in the north, south or east ; according to their population whether they have many millions of inhabitants or few ; or according to their gdp whether it is very high or small . but often reality comes along, and reality acts as a reagent, as a test of the true size of countries and their importance. and when we talk about the importance of a country, we look at lithuania and we see that it has proved to be a great country in the difficult times that the war in ukraine has unveiled. it is a great country because it has set an example of generosity, commitment and solidarity. and he did it not just with words, which are always important: words move the world. but what really moves the world is what you put on the table when the truth forces you: money, resources, people you admit to being immigrants. and here again, lithuania has proved to be a great country, because while its small country spent more than 1% of its gdp, the big european countries did not reach 0.2%. so when we talk about european values and we talk about what europe is, do you know what europe is: commitment, generosity and solidarity. and you know what europe is: your country, lithuania. because it is in times of difficulty that countries, their leaders and their citizens show what european values really are and what europe is all about. europe is a haven. it is a refuge for democracy, but it is also a shield and it should be a shield for democracy. and democracy is defended with commitment, yes; with generosity, yes; with serenity, yes; but also, with weapons. because democracy is defended in the trenches too, and that is why it is very important that all of us here follow their example, that we follow the example of lithuania in defending democracy, the rights and freedoms that are at stake in ukraine. because russia is a certain threat, russia is a military threat, it's a geopolitical threat. you, the baltic countries, have been warning for years about energy dependence, about the threat posed by russia, and everyone looked the other way. once again, the small countries led the way in european values. in short, president nausėda, thank you for being here with us. it is a matter of the european parliament and all the citizens of europe and their representatives to convey to their citizens the thanks of this parliament, because european values, in addition to commitment, generosity and solidarity, now have a new name: lithuania.
madam president, mr nausėda, president of the republic of lithuania, i have absolutely shared your speech on the elements of firmness towards russia, of full support for ukraine, in defending its integrity and its sovereignty. the european union is also open to enlargement, of course, for ukraine, moldova, georgia and, as has been mentioned, also for the western balkans. you have my full support in this agenda you have set. at the same time, i would like to say that this agenda also requires, if we are honest and credible, a mention, which i did not find in your speech, of the necessary deepening of the political project. it must be clear to me, and i am speaking also on this occasion as the spokesman for my group on constitutional matters, that there can be no enlargement without deepening. it is not sustainable to go to a foreign affairs council with 30, 32 or 33 states with veto power on foreign policy, for example. or that we also need unanimity to approve the multiannual financial framework with 33 member states and, let us not forget, 33 national ratifications. i therefore encourage you, mr president nausėda, to contribute to the debate in the european council to pave the way for the adoption of a new treaty which is more democratic, more efficient and therefore more federal.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, madam president-in-office of the council, we are in a transition. our ship must have a social rudder to reach good harbor. the european semester that we are advocating this year from the european parliament is putting all its strength into ensuring that the objectives of economic growth are linked to a socio-ecological and inclusive transformation of our economies, considering all transitions on an equal footing and avoiding social, economic and environmental imbalances by fighting poverty, reducing inequalities and creating decent jobs with decent wages and conditions. this is why, and also as a priority, this year's european semester recognises the need to improve the current governance framework. the objectives of economic growth should be in line with the sustainable development goals and the european pillar of social rights. and the european governance architecture must be based on solidarity, upward social convergence, integration and investment in quality public services. the european budgetary rules have a key role to play in this respect and we therefore stress that they must facilitate the public investment and financing needed to achieve the transition to an economy that is fair to nature, but also fair to people and territories. in this connection, and in anticipation of the deactivation of the safeguard clause, member states will need greater flexibility and the exclusion of social investments from the calculation of the excessive deficit. this would allow the most indebted member states to adopt more flexible individual adjustment pathways that would allow them sufficient budgetary room to carry out the investments and reforms necessary for socially just green and digital transitions. budgetary consolidation will only be sustainable if the distributional impact of reallocated expenditure or changes in revenue is well calibrated and contributes to reducing socioeconomic inequalities. the european semester, as the main policy coordination instrument we have, must enable the member states to cope with crises and prevent future shocks, not only economic but also social. the report also calls for the creation of a social convergence framework as a system for monitoring possible risks to upward social convergence and for detecting potential negative consequences of other policies for the implementation of the social pillar. this convergence framework would also include specific social objectives to be achieved. developing instruments that self-regulate market fluctuations and guarantee the sustainability and survival of our social welfare system is one of the main focuses of this semester. measures, for example, to help curb the volatility of energy prices. we therefore need tools to address the uneven impact of climate change and environmental degradation across different income groups, as well as the social consequences of transforming our societies towards climate neutrality. a social climate fund can be the start of a mechanism that lays the foundations for social ecological protection schemes at national level, with the support of the european union to strengthen social resilience to climate change and environmental degradation. the report also envisages a new sovereign fund to ensure, among other things, that all member states have the flexibility to deal with social, climate and environmental challenges. it is also felt that any future eu funding initiative should integrate social justice as a guiding principle. in short, an eco-social semester that protects people.
the rapporteur. madam president, mr schmit, mrs roswall, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a legislature that is tackling unprecedented challenges, promoting initiatives that must set the course towards a new european model that consolidates economic stability, progress and inclusion. it's not easy, you know. that is why we european politicians must bring perseverance and enthusiasm, because it is with enthusiasm and work that paradigms are changed. the present situation calls for it and the urgency of action is more than evident. the joint employment report of the commission and the council itself, on the orientation of social and employment policies in 2023, acknowledges that minimum wages fell in all but four member states. the number of people in working poverty in the european union has not decreased in the last decade. the housing over-cost rate remains above 40% for over 8% of the population, and little progress has been made in reducing homelessness. on the other hand, social assistance, such as minimum income schemes, does not reach the necessary level of adequacy in most member states. and they will not do so unless binding measures are adopted in this respect, such as a directive on minimum income. this european semester must be about a europe of welfare and opportunity. it should have new governance and investment instruments based on social justice to overcome any underlying socio-economic imbalances and move towards sustainable and inclusive growth and fair green and digital transitions. a european semester to combat tax fraud and tax evasion, to create stable and quality jobs, to help reduce social inequalities and the gap between men and women, and to strengthen wages and pensions. in short, as i said earlier, a european eco-social semester that protects people.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to promote mechanisms to combat social inequalities and to help people in vulnerable situations. minimum income systems are an effective tool to combat poverty and exclusion, and to ensure integration and access to the labour market, provided they are appropriate and well designed. this is not the case today. in addition to the wide differences between the minimum income schemes in the various member states, many of them place them below the national poverty line. it is clear that the current national schemes have not led to sufficient upward convergence or significant poverty reduction. as a socialist, i therefore believe that a european directive is essential to ensure that no person in the european union has an income below the national threshold for the risk of poverty or social exclusion and to ensure their integration into the labour market. this directive is essential to meet the objective set at the social summit in porto of reducing the number of people living in poverty or social exclusion in the european union by at least 15 million by 2030. that is why we in this parliament are also calling for an assessment of the poverty situation in the european union in the period leading up to this porto objective, and not in 2032, as the commission proposes in its recommendation. in short, it is time to push for binding measures and invest in social to move towards a more just society and real and inclusive progress.
mr president, commissioner, if we want more security, what is clear is that we need more renewable energy and less fossil fuels. we finally have electricity market reform in the european union; welcome it. thank you for this reform, which we have been calling for for a long time and is in itself good news; i think it is going in a good direction, but it is not ambitious enough, especially as regards emergency measures. we believe that these measures you propose would not solve the past price crisis. do you think that would solve that past price crisis? i want you to answer this question. secondly, welcome the new right to share energy that citizens now have. but let us not forget that gas in europe is seven times more expensive than in the united states. so we cannot be conformists. we're losing competitiveness. we must make sure that this reform of the electricity market gives a real signal that renewables are the cheapest energy. i think we're not going to get there unless we're a little bit more ambitious on this reform.
mr president, mr borrell, the israeli regime has intensified its spiral of violence against the palestinian people. so far this year, and not counting what is happening in the gaza ghetto, 83 palestinians have been killed and 144 homes destroyed. they have authorized nine settlements and announced the construction, in the west bank alone, of more than 10,000 homes for illegal settlers. a bill introducing the death penalty for palestinian prisoners was passed this month. and what is the european union doing about this outrage? the usual: statements expressing deep concern, while you, mr borrell, re-launch the association council with israel and president metsola announces that she is strengthening relations with the israeli parliament and invites with honour the president of a colonial regime which practices ethnic cleansing and apartheid against the native people of the territory it occupies. mr borrell, the association agreement with israel must be terminated immediately and this criminal regime excluded from all programmes financed by the european union.
president, in israel, benjamin netanyahu has once again become prime minister and immediately the protests begin, as they did when donald trump became president, as they did in georgia, when the parliament turned against foreign influence, as they did when the capitol was supposedly stormed. it is the tried and tested technique of the left to organize or hijack protests, to recruit votes, to press lawsuits and to overthrow governments for a fee. again, these protests in israel have been organized by a leftist elite through vehicles like the movement for quality government to roll out their repugnant ideological agenda. the eu itself has allocated millions under its thematic programme for civil society organisations to put pressure on the israeli government through these civil society intermediaries. i call on the commission to stop immediately this attack on democracy in other countries.
mr. president, mr. borrell, if the famous urban legend of the frog in boiling water were true, this would be a good time to use it. we have let israel go too far in matters of freedoms and international law without proper wording. and now we are faced with a judicial reform which your own president, so quoted here today, considers unacceptable, predatory and dismantling the democratic foundations. i wonder what we would be saying if this was a project, for example, of erdoğan. would we be putting on so many warm towels? fortunately, there has been a reaction from civil society and there is some hope for the future of the country. so we must never confuse that civil society in israel, which is protesting in the streets, with its government. we should also talk a little about the consequences, not only for the palestinian population, but for the whole region. israel was supposedly the only democracy in the middle east. it was never really a peaceful solution for the palestinian population in the occupied territories, and now it risks becoming one for israeli society itself.
mr president, i have often reminded this house of the need to preserve the complexity of the israeli-palestinian conflict, to combat the sinister idea of talking about apartheid in a country where many arab citizens are doctors, professors, police officers, members of parliament, judges, including the supreme court. today, in the face of the attempt to modernize the judiciary, i want to address the prime minister of israel as a member of the european parliament representing friendly powers, europe and france, and as a politician who is deeply committed to democracy and the destiny of israel. don't turn a blind eye to the most massive mobilization in israeli history. don't lose your greatest allies by turning a deaf ear to their calls for reason. do not betray the founding principles of the state of israel and the biblical message it carries, which contributed to the european idea of democracy by laying down in the torah itself the principle of separation of powers and the obligation to set up courts to limit the excesses of political power. there is still time to abandon this dangerous project for israeli democracy, which has always been able, and this is remarkable, to maintain the rule of law despite the state of war. president herzog is showing you the way.
mr president, all my support and solidarity with the protests in israel, in palestine and around the world; all my support to the israeli and palestinian civil-society organisations, in particular human rights defenders to continue their vital work. israel respects nothing, nor to the members of the european parliament like me, who was on an official mission, and israel arbitrarily decide not to let me enter to go to palestine. we are deeply concerned about the judiciary reform proposed by israel. the eu cannot remain silent. the judicial reform is the result of the coalition agreement that will be used as a tool to expand settlements and annex the west bank. the eu needs to recognise that annexation of the west bank is taking place. the transfer of power from the stable administration to the finance and defence minister is more annexation of the west bank by israel. mr borrell, if the eu is committed to the two-state solution, it should strongly push back against this annexation, against the occupation. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, mr high representative, it is very curious to see how those who speak most loudly today about judicial independence are precisely those who have already ruled against israel for years. as on so many other occasions, we are having a preventive debate. even before the reform has completed its process of debate within israeli society, some members of this house have already drawn their conclusions. like many sectors of israeli society, we too share your concern about the risk of straining the constitutional balance in israel. but we are also aware that the majority of israelis believe that judicial reform is necessary. the real challenge for this now is to choose, with the greatest possible consensus, which reform is right for israel. but regardless of how this legislative process proceeds, to speak of a deterioration of democracy, or even of illiberalism, is exaggerated and distant when we are still talking about a project. the rule of law, judicial independence and democratic quality in israel are so far beyond doubt, and this is attested to by numerous international bodies. let us therefore respect the timing and the democratic procedures. let us wait for the final version of the reform and stop discrediting, without definitive facts, the institutional health of such a strategic partner as israel.
mr president, mr high representative and vice-president of the commission, i think it is very important to make statements, although it has been said here 'only' 'only' statements, but i think it is very important; it is true that i heard mr borrell say, in the last part of his speech, that everything that is in the hands of the european union had to be done. i think the key here is to stop the settlements 7000, nothing more and nothing less. these settlements, which are truly an example of apartheid and racial segregation. we've been there for two weeks, mr borrell, racial segregation. i make two proposals. firstly, i think that european companies working in settlements should inform the commission of the final result; that is, where they work, in the end, what it is used for. and secondly, we should warn the israeli government that if it builds these 7,000 illegal settlements, there will be consequences. and i think the consequences are that a sanctions regime should be considered - but first we have to warn the israeli government of that possibility.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i reject this false dichotomy of having to choose between the former president in prison - who many of those sitting here advised not to return to the country, and did so by entering illegally in the middle of a campaign - mr saakashvili, and a government whose authoritarian drift is becoming more and more obvious. but it seems that we agree to support civil society, and at least from there - i mean pro-democratic and pro-european civil society - we can build a consensus. i repeat that it was a mistake not to put georgia on the same terms as the other countries, to whom we offered the candidacy, because that fed the anti-european narrative of the georgian dream. we have opened up a huge space for this anti-european narrative to fill, and it has certainly not served to end the polarization that we have so often said we were concerned about. we now have to rebuild our leverage over the country in a situation infinitely worse than it was a few months ago, but it is our obligation to do so. and i call on all of you to support civil society, without being confused with false dichotomies.
mr president, when we talk about georgia, we inevitably think of its etymology the greek georgos: the farmer, the sower, the peasant and the metaphor of st george and the dragon. the georgians sowed the seed of freedom twenty years ago and now they are threatened by a dragon. in latin: hic sunt dracones. there are dragons near georgia. it is a dragon that is gradually eroding its democracy, with a pattern that we recognize and that we have seen in this law that the government has passed or has tried to pass. therefore, we have to help the georgians. because georgians are not saints, they are citizens who seek and fight for their freedom. they fight in front of a dragon. let's not do again what we did in 2008, which is to leave them alone in front of those who attacked and violated their territorial integrity. let us not leave them alone in the face of those who, now, with a political proxy, are trying to erode and laminate the right they have to harvest the seed of their freedom, which is called europe.
mr president, i thank vice-president maroš šefčovič not only for his presence but also for having negotiated the windsor framework, which is a rule of interpretation of the protocol that allows us to get out of the situation we were in. so, congratulations to you. i also congratulate my dear colleague, mr pedro silva, on his report on the implementation of the withdrawal agreement. i think we have to take into account several elements. firstly, perhaps we should monitor very closely the practical use - if it is used at all, let us hope not - of the so-called stormont brake, because it is true that until we see it in practice we cannot calculate exactly what consequences its activation may have. we also want to take advantage of the new climate, because this is, after all, the debate on relations between the european union and the united kingdom, to recover some elements of cooperation that we proposed back in the day - you will remember - in the agreement on the future relationship, which prime minister boris johnson decided to withdraw at that time, such as cooperation on foreign and security policy and other important elements. in this connection too, we must express our concern about the recent immigration bill proposed by the current prime minister, which ylva johansson has already declared to be obviously contrary to international law, given that it is intended to deny the right of asylum to people arriving in the united kingdom via the english channel, and which also has implications for our immigration policy.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the defence of democracy and human rights cannot be subordinated to other interests. we cannot accept that the european union looks the other way every time these are violated as long as oil or gas flows. what is consensus for russia should also be consensus for azerbaijan, saudi arabia and qatar. the azerbaijani regime is not a credible and reliable partner, as the commission would have you believe. president aliyev has been in power for over twenty years and is well known for being accused of spearheading a money laundering scheme bribing european politicians to whitewash his regime's image, the so-called "caviar diplomacy". i'm sure the people's party remembers her. his barbarism against the armenian people is also well known. while this house is silent on the call for dialogue by the un secretary-general, azerbaijan, putin's ally, is a credible partner for doing business. interestingly, it is omitted that only forty-eight hours before the invasion of ukraine, he and putin signed an agreement on military cooperation and diplomacy. it is not credible and it is not reliable a regime where the rule of law is confused with the wishes of its president. it is not credible, it is not reliable a regime where there is no freedom of the press or lgbtq rights, where political opponents are imprisoned, where protesters are beaten and human rights defenders are repressed. is this the model of the european union's strategic partner, the world we want to promote? enough of this double-crossing. firmness and consistency.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, the truth is that you have turned the commission and the council into excellent agencies of propaganda, into agencies of high-level publicity. they advertise a lot of things, all the time, all the time. but behind, unfortunately, there is only smoke. you know that families in europe are having a hard time because of the rising cost of living, because of the rising interest rates. and they know that the public is clear that a big part of the responsibility lies with the rules of the game, laws that allow the parasites of the banks and the multinationals to squeeze us. they promise us that they're going to make decisions to change these rules. every fortnight there is a meeting of the council or the commission, but in reality we are still the same. for a year they've been saying "tomorrow, tomorrow, tomorrow", when it's something we needed yesterday. mrs von der leyen was very happy yesterday to announce a proposal for a change in the electricity market which does not change anything because it does not change the marginalist pricing system, since gas will continue to determine the price of energy in europe. tomorrow we have the luminaries of the european central bank threatening to raise interest rates again. although, just like now that a bank has failed again in the united states, they have a little more empathy than with the bankruptcy of families and decide to contain the escalation of the euribor. in short, what we need is for you to make decisions to relieve the pressure of the people, even if it means, in this case, cutting back a little on the people who always come out on top.
madam president, mr first vice-president šefčovič, mr maroš, mr president charles michel, we welcome the council conclusions of 9 february, but i would point out that unless we come up with sources of cash, fresh money, existing resources, existing financial instruments are insufficient for what we have to do, including in the field of semiconductors. in the energy field, the european union's energy security means stopping market manipulation - this is the key element - using renewable energy from its own resources and increasing energy efficiency - another point we are very keen on - and lowering the bills for industry and citizens. given the instability of the financial system, and i'm talking about the silicon valley bank failure, again, it shows why we need to take care of an energy system that has stability, so that it doesn't create additional pressure on companies or citizens, because situations are going to be very difficult or very complicated. and especially, we need to protect those on low incomes, young families, with many children, or retirees, who can't afford to bear this burden of bills. unfortunately, the commission's proposal to introduce a new electricity market model is insufficient, it does not address any of these things that i have mentioned, nor does it address market manipulation properly, nor does it address a predictable system of bills and energy prices, and this is something that we have to correct and we will do it in the european parliament.
president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, it is very clear to me. there are three priorities for this european council: ukraine, ukraine and ukraine. first, there is ukraine. now, you give me those guns. i think president zelensky was very clear. we supply ammunition, we supply aircraft, we supply long-range missiles. i think if we want ukraine to win this war, we really need to go after those weapons, and we're going to have to buy them from europe together. we need to increase defense production, strengthen the defense sector. and for me, mr michel - i see you nodding - that is also the beginning of a european army. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. that is a very clear objective for me. secondly, the ukraine. priority two: ukraine and the sanctions. we will continue to grumble in this house until we have 6,000 names on that sanctions list. we have guy verhofstadt with navalny. we're going to keep working on it. the third priority: ukraine and the future. what is the future of ukraine? i think, ladies and gentlemen, that only ukraine will decide that. russia is not going to decide that. china is not going to decide that. we must help to build that european future for ukraine. because it's important, i think, that ukraine wins that war. not only for the future of ukraine, but also for us as the european union. and, ladies and gentlemen, europe must not be the playground of the other great powers. europe must play its part as a great power, and that requires unity. and mr michel, i was a little worried yesterday when i read the rumours that there was a difference of opinion on china policy. i think we really can't make the mistake of looking at china in two ways. mrs. von der leyen is no longer here, but you can pass that message on. i hope very much that you will agree on china and that we will not make the mistake we made with russia. this legislation on critical materials is really necessary. we have to bet on that. and finally, we must take our destiny into our own hands. so i really do make an appeal, mr michel, to the council to come to a unanimous and decisive decision. renew europe supports you in this.
madam president, the success or failure of the european union will depend on the strength of its member states. if we want a europe that is firm in the face of putin; if we want a europe that protects its citizens and has a competitive economy; if we want a europe that defends political exemplarity, we must start with the countries. while we are talking here about unity in support of ukraine, in spain one part of the government is fighting the other over arms shipments to ukraine. while we are asking for the protection of women here, in spain the government is passing a law that will release rapists from prison. while in brussels we are calling for the fight against corruption and for not a single euro of european public money to be misused, the spanish government is cheapening the crime against corruption. while in brussels we are calling for the next generation eu funds to be implemented, the spanish government is unable to get these funds into the real economy. and while there is a call here for a return to the stability and growth pact, the spanish government is ramping up debt and spending in government structures. europe cannot afford weak, conflicted and incompetent governments. spain is a great country, but with a bad government that is not up to the task. they demand unity, but also responsibility.
the green deal offers a huge potential for jobs. think of the many jobs in the construction sector thanks to the just voted wave of building renovation or the enormous opportunities that lie in the circular economy for restoration, for recycling, which really offers opportunities for both low-skilled and highly skilled labor. this is a matter of thousands of jobs that cannot simply be moved abroad. and this new industrial strategy also offers a great many opportunities. but, ladies and gentlemen, that is where the problem lies. because of course it's a very good thing that we're going to be investing massively in greening our industry. but the commission is still rather vague about the quality of these new jobs or the involvement of transition workers. and that is in stark contrast to what they are doing in the united states, for example with concrete conditions on collective wage bargaining, on opportunities for young people, even on providing childcare. having a job does not always guarantee a quality life, because there are many europeans who live in poverty despite having a job. commissioner, just focusing on skills is not enough. what is the commission's strategy for achieving a fair transition, with the companies, with the trade unions, with the workers? today, in many companies, we see a particularly strong drive towards flexibility: work harder, work longer. use that transition as a lever to really engage workers in the transition and to create quality jobs. commissioner schmit, i am counting on you to make that happen.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, mr commissioner, europe's middle and working classes are on the verge of collapse and we have a debate entitled 'more europe, more jobs: building the competitive economy of tomorrow for the benefit of all'. it's not funny. at the last plenary this parliament voted to ban combustion vehicles by 2035. a week later ford announces the layoff of more than a thousand workers in spain. more fanaticism, fewer jobs. according to eurostat, their social policies put 22% of europeans at risk of poverty. more fanaticism, fewer jobs. the commission says that the recovery of employment in spain is going well. you got to be kidding me. it's the country with the highest unemployment for the first time in history; a 30 percent youth unemployment rate; and a massive accounting fraud that turns people who aren't actually working into "fixed workers". while sanchez laughs, your thanks will make your pill go gold, but know that when sanchez laughs, the spanish cry. how are you going to build the economy of tomorrow! the european community was founded on coal, steel, atomic energy, common agricultural production, free movement and the christian social order. and you're going to blame him for everything. the fanaticism of a few is the anguish of many. but don't be in a hurry, your time is running out.
mr president, commissioner, representatives of the council. i am very pleased, commissioner, that in this debate you have highlighted something which i consider essential, namely the next generation eu funds. in a debate on competitiveness, when we have a plan of 800 billion euros that we are financing with european debt, which will have to be paid by future generations, and when we talk about competitiveness, we have to ask ourselves whether or not these 800 billion euros, these national plans that the various member states have presented and that the commission has approved, are actually contributing to making europe more competitive, a europe that allows more jobs to be created, a europe that is, in short, as the name says, more resilient. and i appeal to the commission directly. is the commission really checking that the reforms which are included in the national plans are the reforms which will make europe more competitive? are we creating a legal framework that allows companies to act in a way that allows them to compete on a level playing field with the rest of the world? honestly, i have serious doubts. i would like to draw attention to a specific reform which is being put forward by the spanish government, namely the pension reform, which puts all the burden on employers. it is a reform that he has announced without having made an agreement with the employers, simply and simply agreed with the trade unions, and without having made an agreement with the opposition. and i am alerted to a reform in which the spanish government says it has the support of the commission. it is a reform that is not proven to create a sustainable system and it is a reform that all the entrepreneurs complain about that they sat at the table without even having seen a single piece of paper. so i call on the commission to do that very important job of ensuring that the reforms of the recovery and resilience mechanism reforms, the next generation eu reforms make us a more competitive europe.
in writing. europe must lead the clean technology industrial revolution, competing with the us and china, while promoting its unique socioeconomic model. the s&d group believes that the eu should be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion, and that the eu should be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion. competitiveness alone does not create quality, well-paid jobs, so we must not allow these investments to be used as an excuse to reduce our work in the social dimension. we cannot allow cuts in social investment because we want to be truly competitive. putting the burden of green transition on the backs of workers is not an option. our objectives: to create quality jobs and good working conditions and to ensure the territorial cohesion of the union and its strong position in the global economy. social dialogue and good industrial relations are also key to the success of this major industrial transformation.
in writing. europe must lead the clean technology industrial revolution, competing with the us and china, while promoting its unique socioeconomic model. the s&d group believes that the eu should be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion, and that the eu should be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion. competitiveness alone does not create quality, well-paid jobs, so we must not allow these investments to be used as an excuse to reduce our work in the social dimension. we cannot allow cuts in social investment because we want to be truly competitive. putting the burden of green transition on the backs of workers is not an option. our objectives: to create quality jobs and good working conditions and to ensure the territorial cohesion of the union and its strong position in the global economy. social dialogue and good industrial relations are also key to the success of this major industrial transformation.
in writing. europe must lead the clean technology industrial revolution, competing with the us and china, while promoting its unique socioeconomic model. the s&d group believes that the eu should be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion, and that the eu should be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion. competitiveness alone does not create quality, well-paid jobs, so we must not allow these investments to be used as an excuse to reduce our work in the social dimension. we cannot allow cuts in social investment because we want to be truly competitive. putting the burden of green transition on the backs of workers is not an option. our objectives: to create quality jobs and good working conditions and to ensure the territorial cohesion of the union and its strong position in the global economy. social dialogue and good industrial relations are also key to the success of this major industrial transformation.
in writing. europe must lead the clean technology industrial revolution, competing with the us and china, while promoting its unique socioeconomic model. the s&d group believes that the eu should be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion, and that the eu should be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion. competitiveness alone does not create quality, well-paid jobs, so we must not allow these investments to be used as an excuse to reduce our work in the social dimension. we cannot allow cuts in social investment because we want to be truly competitive. putting the burden of green transition on the backs of workers is not an option. our objectives: to create quality jobs and good working conditions and to ensure the territorial cohesion of the union and its strong position in the global economy. social dialogue and good industrial relations are also key to the success of this major industrial transformation.
in writing. europe must lead the clean technology industrial revolution, competing with the us and china, while promoting its unique socioeconomic model. the s&d group believes that the eu should be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion, and that the eu should be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion. competitiveness alone does not create quality, well-paid jobs, so we must not allow these investments to be used as an excuse to reduce our work in the social dimension. we cannot allow cuts in social investment because we want to be truly competitive. putting the burden of green transition on the backs of workers is not an option. our objectives: to create quality jobs and good working conditions and to ensure the territorial cohesion of the union and its strong position in the global economy. social dialogue and good industrial relations are also key to the success of this major industrial transformation.
in writing. europe must lead the clean technology industrial revolution, competing with the us and china, while promoting its unique socioeconomic model. the s&d group believes that the eu should be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion, and that the eu should be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion. competitiveness alone does not create quality, well-paid jobs, so we must not allow these investments to be used as an excuse to reduce our work in the social dimension. we cannot allow cuts in social investment because we want to be truly competitive. putting the burden of green transition on the backs of workers is not an option. our objectives: to create quality jobs and good working conditions and to ensure the territorial cohesion of the union and its strong position in the global economy. social dialogue and good industrial relations are also key to the success of this major industrial transformation.
mr president, dear othmar karas, commissioner, dear ylva johansson, minister, dear jessika roswall, we are shocked by the shipwreck near crotone, italy. the reason is that the ship ran aground in european waters. not in the open sea, my dear colleagues, but on our shores, and this ship had been reported to the italian coastguard. nearly 60 people died in the tragedy. more than 2,300 in the mediterranean last year. we cannot turn a blind eye to these deaths. with my colleagues at renew europe, we are calling for a european rescue force at sea, in cooperation with the member states, and also for the creation of legal migration routes. in the medium and long term, our response is the european pact on asylum and migration, which will ensure harmonised asylum rules in the union and a solidarity mechanism between member states. we're running out of time. i call on the swedish presidency, madam minister, and the council to speed up their work with the help of the commission, to reach an agreement quickly, to make progress on this long-awaited reform.
mr president, it is true that every death at sea is a tragedy. but many of these tragedies are preventable and some people gladly take them on to continue the huge business of human trafficking into europe. the deaths are not the fault of nations protecting their borders, but of uncontrolled immigration policies and the irresponsible call effect that leads crowds to jump into the sea and risk their lives at the hands of smugglers. drug-trafficking gangs are not just criminal gangs that lure people with promises and collect fortunes. their necessary collaborators are fake humanitarian organizations run by the far left, supported by all of you, and which collect human merchandise at stipulated locations at sea, the last link in the chain of 21st century slave traders. meanwhile, in spain and europe, the effects of this illegal immigration are taking off: the collapse of services and the escalation of insecurity, violence and crime. all to get cheap labour. if you want to stop deaths at sea, giorgia meloni shows the way: close the death routes, repatriate the illegals and jail the traffickers, those on the ships and the offices.
madam president, european citizens are robbed daily by organized crime groups, by corrupt individuals, by escapees, by trafficking networks, by timber thieves, by polluters, by poachers. what is the european union doing? he generally debates. the idea of the european public prosecutor's office was born in 2007. it was not until 2021 that it became operational. the damage from the files investigated over 18 months exceeds 14 billion euros, but there are still parties and parliamentary groups here in parliament who oppose the extension of the powers of the european public prosecutor's office. they don't want to increase the da's budget or the number of employees. the message is given to the offenders: europe is weak and can be stolen, isn't it? we do not have uniform anti-corruption rules, we do not give european police and prosecutors the resources to punish cross-border criminals. the vast wealth of the corrupt remains unconfiscated, so we talk too much and do far too little against organized crime. and european citizens see this and we will see it and feel it in the elections, dear colleagues!
madam president, the fight against organised crime is a typical area where eu cooperation is a necessary and a good thing. i particularly welcome joint actions and the work of eu agencies in the field of police cooperation. we in hungary are proud to host cepol, the training agency for police officers, which has been doing an excellent job. when it comes to organised crime, illegal migration is undeniably a big part of the problem. first, it includes international human smuggling networks that organise illegal migration into the eu. secondly, we also see how dangerous criminals and terrorists take advantage of the lack of border controls very often to enter europe. and, of course, there is another consequence of uncontrolled and illegal migration: the deteriorating public security situation in many european cities, no—go zones and the like, with attacks on women and jews being the most common examples. we must ensure respect for law and order, effective police cooperation against serious crimes – be it human smuggling, drugs trafficking, fraud or anything else – shall remain a top priority on the agenda.
madam president, europol's analyses are conclusive on the scale of the security challenge posed by organised crime: five thousand organised crime groups under investigation in the european union. a crime that uses sophisticated technology, that is organized in networks with greater capacity to penetrate the social and economic fabric and that expands its activities: illegal trafficking, weapons, online crimes, frauds of various nature, money laundering and connections with terrorist plots. a crime that is also increasing the use of violence. i would like to refer in particular to the increase in the production and trafficking of drugs, which has a huge potential to corrupt the whole institutional system and its impact on public health - including mental health - as well as to europe's growing production capacity, not only for synthetic drugs but also for illegal crops. it would also be useful to look at the entry of organised crime into the field of environmental crime - a field in which criminals see business opportunities. the european union has the resources to meet this challenge and must mobilise those resources. the key is relatively simple: whistleblowing, cooperation and technology within our system of freedoms in the service of fighting crime. we must therefore welcome the improvement in the instruments of cooperation, for example with the proposal for a directive on the exchange of information between the police authorities of the member states, and call for further strengthening of the regulatory framework and practice of our judicial and police cooperation.
madam president, justyna in poland, vanessa in andorra and many others, who have not yet been named, are being prosecuted for helping other women to have abortions. it doesn't matter what the sentence is in the end, it doesn't matter if we're talking about jail, fines or community service. they are women who live under threat for defending the sexual and reproductive rights of other women. they are all victims of exemplary punishment, because with the criminalization of solidarity and compassion what is sought is to frighten us, to indoctrinate us and to domesticate us as if we were children. all of them are victims of harassment, violence and discrimination without ever having been legally protected. sisterhood is not a crime and abortion is a right. a few years ago the french constitutional council enshrined the principle of fraternity, among other things, because what does constitute a crime is the failure to help. we want sex education to decide, contraceptives to not abort and legal abortion to not die.
madam president, madam commissioner, madam president-in-office of the council, our argentine colleagues, while they were campaigning, were already saying: 'sexual education to decide, contraceptives to avoid abortion and legal abortion to avoid death'. it is a human right to be able to decide about our bodies, our sexuality and our health, but to decide free of discrimination, violence and coercion. in europe, as in other parts of the world, we see not only the sexual and reproductive rights, especially of women, in all their diversity, not being respected, but also those who courageously defend them being persecuted, accused and repressed. no more harassing us at the exit of clinics, no more sending us to court for exercising our right to an abortion or even for helping another woman to do so. enough of promoting anti-abortion policies like making us hear the fetal heartbeat. try it. i repeat, in case you haven't heard it the first time: sex education to decide, contraceptives to not have an abortion and legal, safe and free abortion to not die.
madam president, the right to defend and promote human rights is a risky activity in many parts of the world, as we heard here this morning from shirin ebadi, nobel peace prize winner. but it's also a risky activity in europe, in poland, and nothing has happened. since 2020 there has been a serious escalation of judicial persecution of sexual and reproductive rights defenders such as justyna wydrzyńska, convicted by a polish court for defending the right to abortion. and she's not the only one. it is they, as defenders, like justyna and those who preceded her, who preceded us, who make reality and ensure that the rest of us enjoy rights recognized in international law, such as the right to access safe and legal abortion. and they are the ones who harass, intimidate, threaten and imprison the defenders of sexual and reproductive rights in europ, and who are silent and tolerant, who are basically seeking to control women, to discipline us, to control our voice, our body, our reproductive capacity. europe cannot tolerate this. they won't silence us, they won't discipline us, because their voice is our voice.
in writing. on the occasion of international women's day 2023, we pay tribute to all those brave women who are fighting for fundamental human rights. sexual and reproductive health and rights (srhr) are being attacked and dismantled by ultraconservative forces around the world and in several eu member states, such as poland. polish law does not criminalize women who have abortions, but those who directly assist them, including activists. the government and right-wing ultraconservative groups want tougher punishments for these activists in a country that is experiencing an escalation of judicial persecution that has culminated in the first case of prosecution and conviction in europe of justyna w., a polish activist. we socialists consider this condemnation intolerable and we strongly support those who defend women's rights, because they defend not only women's rights but democracy as such.
in writing. on the occasion of international women's day 2023, we pay tribute to all those brave women who are fighting for fundamental human rights. sexual and reproductive health and rights (srhr) are being attacked and dismantled by ultraconservative forces around the world and in several eu member states, such as poland. polish law does not criminalize women who have abortions, but those who directly assist them, including activists. the government and right-wing ultraconservative groups want tougher punishments for these activists in a country that is experiencing an escalation of judicial persecution that has culminated in the first case of prosecution and conviction in europe of justyna w., a polish activist. we socialists consider this condemnation intolerable and we strongly support those who defend women's rights, because they defend not only women's rights but democracy as such.
in writing. on the occasion of international women's day 2023, we pay tribute to all those brave women who are fighting for fundamental human rights. sexual and reproductive health and rights (srhr) are being attacked and dismantled by ultraconservative forces around the world and in several eu member states, such as poland. polish law does not criminalize women who have abortions, but those who directly assist them, including activists. the government and right-wing ultraconservative groups want tougher punishments for these activists in a country that is experiencing an escalation of judicial persecution that has culminated in the first case of prosecution and conviction in europe of justyna w., a polish activist. we socialists consider this condemnation intolerable and we strongly support those who defend women's rights, because they defend not only women's rights but democracy as such.
madam president, in the preparation of this report, which has been carried out with efficiency and flexibility by mrs neumann, some harmful trends have been identified which should be emphasized. one is the topic of so-called silent diplomacy: a practice which, in human rights matters, cannot be a general attitude but an instrument to be used very exceptionally - as in the case of negotiating the release of a political prisoner - but cannot be the way our embassies express themselves in countries with human rights problems. contact with human rights ngos must be constant and systematic, and public statements must be frequent and expressive. another trend is an implicit and perverse division of roles between the union delegations and the embassies of the member countries. thus, the european union delegations take on the 'less sympathetic' role of confronting the authorities with their human rights problems, and the embassies of the member countries engage in economic diplomacy, which is always friendly and rewarding. the obligation to put human rights at the heart of our foreign policy is derived from the treaties and is an obligation of the european union and the member states. that would make a good team europe.
author. – mr president, day by day, the situation worsens in iran and the feeling of outrage grows among iranians. the deliberate poisoning of hundreds of schoolgirls is the latest cruel attempt at intimidating girls and women for their bravery and courage in a country that represses them. teenage girls and university students have been at the forefront of the countrywide protests that have been held since the death of jina mahsa amini in september last year. after the beating of protesters, poisoning seems now to be a new attempt to silence and punish them for their brave acts as part of a wider systemic discrimination against women and girls in the country. we cannot and we will not remain silent in the face of such atrocity. and we call on iran to launch a credible and transparent investigation, but also together with independent international organisations, and to hold those responsible to account. but we also call – and we will call with a resolution tomorrow – on the commission and the member states to increase technical and capacity support to iranian civil society and to facilitate the issuance of visas and asylum, as well as emergency grants for those that need to leave the country, particularly women and girls.
author. mr president, since november, thousands of girls have been subjected to chemical attacks in schools throughout the islamic republic of iran. respiratory problems, headache, nausea, dizziness and temporary paralysis of the limbs have been reported. hundreds of students and staff were hospitalized and tragically, fatemeh rezaei, only 11 years old, died. these attacks are believed to be from religious groups opposed to girls' education and it is impossible to dissociate them from the protests led by women and girls since the death of mahsa amini. the consequence is that mothers and fathers keep their daughters at home to protect them. we condemn these attacks on the schoolgirls and call on the iranian authorities to conduct a prompt, transparent and impartial investigation into the poisonings. we need an independent fact-finding mission from the united nations. we also need urgent visas for those who are fighting for freedom and life. we cannot abandon the brave girls and young women of iran. nothing can stop the women of iran from being free.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, once again we are witnessing the iranian regime’s vicious repression of its women. in september, iranian security forces repeatedly used violence and intimidation to silence women and girls peacefully protesting the regime’s anti-women policies. we are now contending with what could be potentially one of the most heinous and inhumane acts of systemic abuse against iranian women. the distressing reports of the serial poisonings of school girls across iran call for prompt action and independent investigation. the regime’s weak response to the situation sends a clear message that iran does not listen to its women. i also call on the eu to increase increased technical and capacity support to iranian civil society. women are equal to men and education is a fundamental right. there should be zero tolerance for any attempt to infringe on this right.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a lock of hair escapes the veil and a woman is murdered in iran. a ballet and five girls are arrested; one day behind the school desk and the students are poisoned. we can no longer tolerate violence that aims to deprive girls of their right to a future. thousands of students have been killed by chemical weapons in recent months, a terrible and cowardly crime. chemical weapons used in schools which represent the place of emancipation par excellence. nobel laureate shirin ebadi, speaking to this house today, was clear: don't turn around. i want to say to mrs. ebadi, to the family of mahsa amini, to the five arrested girls, to the students who are afraid to go back to school and to all those who are protesting for their freedoms, that we will continue to work to have the revolutionary guards considered a terrorist group, to have sanctions implemented, to have no trade or financial deal made with the iranian government. we will work for safe humanitarian channels for women activists and continue to sponsor those who have been unjustly imprisoned and risk their lives. we stand for women and a free iran. - what? life. freedom is free.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! i think this debate is very much needed if our words, important words beyond political divides, are to be translated into action. there's a lot of ideas here. i hear it might be worth recalling western ambassadors from iran. others are talking about the need to send an international mission to check what is happening in iran - and i'm sure the authorities in tehran will not agree to this. but one thing is certain: we need to not just speak up about it, but we need to translate what we heard here today from the iranian representative on international women's day into some concrete actions in the west. i think only the language of sanctions can be understood by iran. and finally, i wish that in the near future, a woman will be the head of the government of iran, the authorities of iran. whether it's mrs. marjam rajawi or someone else, it would be the best slap in the face for those who persecute women in iran today.
mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, they can’t breathe, president. imagine the horror: 7000 iranian girls thinking school is safe and then suddenly gasping for air. we may not yet know who is behind these atrocious attacks, not for certain. but we do know one thing, the islamic republic always comes after women first. khomeini and his irgc have never hesitated to kill iranians, especially those leading the resistance, and the un must investigate, this cannot be left to tehran and commissioner and council: when? when will you finally designate the irgc as what they are? there really is no need to dance around the word. they are terrorists, plain and simple. president, today let’s celebrate the school girls’ fierce resistance, the leadership of iran’s women, their unbroken defiance, dancing in the streets, their hair flowing freely in the wind. that’s the freedom iran deserves.
mr president, how can you imagine greater horror in a country that is the country with the highest number of executions of women, torture and murder in the world. yes, an action unprecedented in its scale and nature; the most criminal attack on girls and students we have ever known: mass poisoning. and the iranian health minister indicated on february 26 that it is a mild poison. we can't trust any internal investigation in this country. we need an international investigation. afghan women created a slogan that has crossed borders: woman, life, freedom. but more than words are expected of us. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the united nations charter and the un charter. because it's not true, as the autocratic regime says, that it's them or chaos. no, iran has a right to a real democratic transition.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. what the free world has not managed to do with many attempts - with the nuclear deal, without a nuclear deal, with sanctions, perhaps also sometimes through half-heartedness or a bit of naivety - at least so far - and, this commands my respect, is now creating a civil movement, actually a civil movement in iran, namely to bring this evil regime to the edge of its existence. this is very, very valuable for the citizens of iran, for the future of iran, but also for the entire middle east, for the entire world, because iran is a threat to its own citizens. the iranian regime is that threat, and the iranian regime is that threat to its neighbors, especially to our partner israel, and to us, too, in the way of islamist terrorism, which is supported by iran, which does not even shy away from poisoning schoolgirls by that regime so that they cannot go to school. this regime should be brought to the brink of its existence and overthrown.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i want to join my predecessors in unequivocally condemning the heinous crimes being committed against children, against women in iran. whether the regime commits them directly or merely tolerates them, it is to blame for what is happening in iran. the atmosphere of fear, hatred, attacks against women, attacks against all opponents of the regime is what causes thousands of young women and children to be attacked and harmed in this way. we must condemn it clearly. i have spoken out here many times and criticized the iranian regime even during the last election period, when some here were optimistic that it was possible to make a deal with the iranian regime. unfortunately, it turns out that this is not possible, and that is why i join, although i have said this in the past, the voices of all those who say that sanctions against the regime should be tightened and that an international investigation into these crimes should be launched.
mr president, dear colleagues, iranian girls and women have been the target of this organised gas attack launched by khomeini agents against them in hundreds of schools because they want to target the women and girls who are the hope for change in iran there is mounting evidence of government involvement in these horrific attacks. and today we heard directly from iranian women representatives how shamefully the iranian regime treats women, girls and young people for many decades. and we heard also the request to blacklist the irgc. i am really glad that our parliament has long-term cooperation with iranian opposition groups. one important movement, national council of resistance, is also headed by a woman, ms rajavi. and i remember her warning that any contacts with the iranian regime are pointless. we lifted the sanctions and the iranian regime used the new money not for iranian people, but to invest in weapons in drones, which are now attacking ukraine and to get a nuclear weapon. so, please, no more mistakes. let’s work with iranian women and let’s blacklist the irgc.
mr president, after what we have heard here a few hours ago, i can think of nothing that could improve on the words of the nobel peace prize winner, mrs ebadi, because it is difficult to think of a more authentic, more passionate and more compelling testimony. so, i want to remind you of a request that mrs. ebadi made to us today: to ask that what the iranian regime does to iranian girls be recorded in the history books. and we in this parliament can help to ensure that the repression of this regime is indeed recorded in the history books. but we have to do more. it has been said repeatedly - and it needs to be said again - that the revolutionary guards should be added to the list of terrorist organizations. let us not be mistaken: the regime may start its laundering operations, but the regime cannot be reformed. now, while the regime cannot be reformed, the regime is not invincible: we must keep this idea in mind when we apply the strategy that the iranian threat requires.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, we are concerned about the situation in tunisia. the situation of the dissolution of parliament, the reform of the judiciary or the attack on freedom of expression is very bad news for the tunisian people. we are particularly concerned about the attempted repression of the tunisian general labour union, the country's main trade union and a key organisation in the overthrow of the ben ali dictatorship and the expansion of the rights of the tunisian working class. in tunisia, as in the rest of the world, trade unions are a vaccine against authoritarianism. we reject their repression and the recent expulsion of the secretary-general of the european trade union confederation and a representative of the general union of workers in spain. it is no coincidence that the class unions are attacked, but it is no coincidence that the debate here is now about tunisia when france and morocco are losing influence in the country. i hope that this parliament will debate the situation of countries, regardless of their geopolitical orientation. the defence of human rights cannot depend on geopolitical calculation.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, congratulations on this citizens' initiative. i think the title, we all agree, could not be more appropriate: 'save bees and farmers: towards a bee-friendly agriculture for a healthy environment'. it is being said here that if we do not save pollinators and ecosystems, it is very difficult to ensure long-term agricultural production. so, congratulations on the initiative. according to fao data, 75 percent of the different crops we use for food depend on pollinators. so i think we have to act. there are two regulations under way in this house: the nature restoration regulation, which sets out the legal obligation of member states to reverse the decline of nature, and the regulation on the sustainable use of pesticides, which deals with the reduction of pesticide use. so this morning's debate is very good, but i think we have to face these two debates with courage. i know that there are political groups which are having difficulties, which in some cases are against it; that is fine by me. but i think we have to build and i think we have to negotiate. and to save bees and farmers it is important that we agree on these two regulations.
madam president, commissioner, when more than a million europeans, citizens of europe, ask us to save bees and farmers, we must listen to them. they actually ask us to do three things to change the model. ending synthetic pesticides by 2035. honestly, i don't know if we can do this. on the other hand, reducing our dependence on pesticides is a no-brainer. and our previous resolutions, the 2019 pollinators resolution, already called for this. a commission proposal is on the table to halve chemical pesticides by 2030. parliament must stop its flippantness and take up the matter. secondly, support for farmers. of course, and more than ever, financially, but also precisely by a massive development of alternatives to chemical pesticides. the third and most important requirement is to restore pollinator populations. this is essential. and here, pesticides do not explain everything - land use change, loss of habitats, intensive farming, pollution, pests, climate change... the fight to save our bees is global. so this is a change of course that the petitioners are asking us to make.
madam president, commissioner mcguinness, whenever we speak in this parliament about agriculture, in this case in the framework of the citizens' initiative 'save bees and farmers: towards a bee-friendly agriculture for a healthy environment', it seems that some people have just discovered agriculture or want to make a clean slate of all the achievements we have made in the last few decades. a clear example is pesticides. in the last 50 years, our farmers have reduced their use by 95 percent. they have done so without any tax reduction targets, simply by applying ever more innovative and precise technology. and why has this happened? because farmers want to spend less money on plant protection products, they want to treat their crops as best they can, and they want to protect the biodiversity that is so important to their livelihood. in the european people's party we share these ambitions and want to continue to improve the quality of products and agri-food practices in europe. but we also need enough to feed 450 million europeans, and as many outside europe, and to do so at an affordable price. so before we make any decisions that will harm our food security, we need realistic and affordable alternatives. we need the right time periods for farmers to adapt. and we need socioeconomic impact studies to back up any legislative changes. we must trust our farmers, as we have done for decades, and be a support for them, not a hindrance.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you, colleagues, for this discussion. whatever side of the house you come from, it’s very clear that we face an enormous problem, and we do need to act and act with some urgency. i will remind you, as i said earlier, that the commission will continue to actively participate in the preparations for the upcoming summit for a new global financing pact. we have to engage all relevant actors through this summit and other relevant forums. this is the only way to find solutions to meet, as i said, the scale of this challenge, we will also continue to engage with the private sector and multilateral development banks to mobilise funds for climate- and nature-positive investments and to ensure that their vision, mission, operating model and financing are fit for purpose. the next important milestone will be the world bank and imf spring meetings in april, and we believe this is very timely. it represents a major opportunity for the international community to fast-forward concrete solutions and find the resources we desperately need to keep the 1.5 celsius goal of the paris agreement alive and to increase climate resilience in the most vulnerable countries. it is important that we speak with a coherent european voice across all tracks: development, finance and climate.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the oral question to the commission on the commission's failure to act in the context of the duty to cooperate honestly and fairly (o-000013/2023 - b9-0015/2023) (2023/2583 ((rsp)).
author. – mr president, madam commissioner, it’s an honour and mostly a pleasure to chair the committee of inquiry to investigate the use of pegasus and equivalent surveillance spyware, set up a year ago with the important task to investigate one of the biggest threats to free democracies all over the world: the abuse of highly invasive spyware like pegasus by governments, including in the european union. from the first moments, we knew it would not be an easy task. it is a relatively new phenomenon. it operates in an extremely complicated international ecosystem and it has a highly technical and constantly evolving nature. but luckily, from day one, we could count on great support in conducting our investigation through information exchanges, during and outside our hearings, with a variety of stakeholders – from technical experts to the research community, from industry to journalists and civil society. we engaged with more than 180 interlocutors over the course of the last 12 months. i am frustrated, however, about the reason why i am standing here today representing the pega committee here in strasbourg. because, ever since the establishment of our committee, there have been two key stakeholders that have not fulfilled the duty of sincere and loyal cooperation, or that have refused to take decisive action in the face of a serious threat: the member states and the commission. as part of our fact-finding mission, the pega committee sent a questionnaire to the member states on 14 july 2022, eight months ago. it contained questions about the use of spyware, the legislation governing such use and the establishment of ex-ante authorisation and ex-post supervision. a similar questionnaire was also sent to the commission. a simple set of questions. we are not asking to divulge state secrets or for full openness on matters of national security. simple, straightforward, factual questions that any government should be able to answer without any problem. on 12 october, we received a joint answer by the czech presidency, which did not contain any of the information requested, but contained an assurance that the member states would fulfil their obligations of sincere and loyal cooperation. so far, we have received answers from only 10 member states’ governments out of 27. thanks to parliamentary bodies, we have some more information about other member states, but from member states like the netherlands, the czech republic, denmark, italy or malta, we have no information, no response whatsoever and it is absolutely unacceptable. hundreds of millions of europeans that we represent as a european parliament deserve answers to our questions, and answers are very difficult to give if governments who purchase and use this software refuse to answer even the most basic of those questions. it goes further than not just answering questions. in hungary and poland, governments were so afraid of checks and balances, so afraid of democratic dialogue and scrutiny that they flat out refused to meet with us. also this is a scandal. but i also believe the european commission should have a close look in the mirror. i know, madam commissioner, that you are not the responsible commissioner here, but as a representative of the commission, i do have to express my great disappointment and my frustration. from the very start of the pegasus scandal, the european commission has failed to take this threat seriously, has failed to fulfil its duties as guardian of the treaty. the first response was ‘we will not investigate. we will not investigate because this is really something for the national authorities. the commission cannot touch national security issues and people should instead seek justice at their respective national courts’. so the commission, the same commission that is taking the polish government to the european court of justice for depriving individuals of the full guarantees of effective judicial protection and for turning the highest court into a political body, that same commission tells polish victims of pegasus to turn to the same judicial system to get justice. it does not make sense. this is not simply about national security. it is a rule of law issue, and the commission should act because the treaty is very clear: ‘pursuant to the principle of sincere cooperation, the union and the member states shall, in full mutual respect, assist each other in carrying out tasks which flow from the treaties.’ now this parliament is carrying out its tasks, but without any assistance from the member states or the commission. the principle is unfulfilled. what we see in practice is not sincere and it is not even cooperation. therefore, the parliament, which considers the duty of sincere and loyal cooperation to be unfulfilled, asks the following questions: what action has the commission taken or will it take in response to this breach of the duty of sincere and loyal cooperation by the member states? has it initiated procedures to address this violation? if not, when will it do so? can it explain what steps it has taken to fulfil its own duty of sincere and loyal cooperation with the pega committee?
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to answer the questions raised by the pega committee and indeed by mr lenaers on the commission’s current and future actions in response to the alleged lack of sincere and loyal cooperation with the inquiry committee by council and member states. the commission has already made clear that it condemns any illegal interference in personal communications. we expect that national competent authorities and courts make full use of their powers to thoroughly investigate the allegations regarding any unlawful surveillance activities and restore citizens’ trust. the commission also made very clear in the 2022 rule of law report that although member states are competent to guarantee their national security, they must apply relevant eu law, including the case law of the european court of justice, when doing so. the rule of law requires that the response to surveillance software by member states or the recourse, rather, to surveillance software by member state security services is subject to sufficient control and that it fully respects eu law, including fundamental rights such as the protection of personal data, the safety of journalists and freedom of expression. the use of surveillance means in criminal investigations also has to respect procedural rights, including the rights of defendants. robust institutional checks and balances are therefore needed to guarantee the functioning cooperation and mutual control of state organs so that power is exercised by one state authority under the scrutiny of others. it is for member states alone to define their national security interests and to adopt appropriate measures to ensure their internal and external security. nevertheless, this does not mean that they can merely refer to national security to exclude the application of eu law. the court of justice makes clear that member states must be able to demonstrate that national security would be compromised in the case at issue. the commission has taken action within the framework of its competence, including by enquiring about data protection implications in all the member states and by making concrete proposals on the protection of journalists from spyware in the media freedom act. however, the commission has no competence to assess individual cases and whether specific wiretapping activities are carried out for national security purposes and has no investigatory powers in this area. along this line, the commission has followed with great attention the activities of the pega committee of inquiry since its establishment. it has been and continues to stand ready to assist in its work. this is a matter to which the commission attaches the utmost importance and it looks forward to the conclusions of the work of the pega committee. furthermore, the commission has answered several questionnaires addressed by the pega committee regarding the use of pegasus and equivalent spyware, as well as a number of parliamentary questions. members of the college have also made themselves available upon request. they have also taken part in some plenary debates devoted to the use of spyware, including in various member states. the commission therefore has always fully cooperated with the pega committee and will continue to do so insofar as the pega committee investigates alleged contraventions or maladministration in the implementation of union law by the commission. concerning the responses given by the council and member states to the request from the pega committee. whilst the commission is aware of the concerns flagged in the draft pega report, the content of these responses has not been shared with the commission, nor is the commission aware of contacts or exchanges that could have taken place subsequently with the council or member states outside of the formal pega sessions. therefore, the commission cannot express a position on the more general questions relating to the exercise of the parliament’s right of inquiry under article 226 and decision 85/167 of the european parliament, the council and commission of 6 march 1995 on the detailed provisions governing the exercise of the european parliament’s right of inquiry, or any application of the fulfilment of the duty of sincere and loyal cooperation by the council and the member states.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner mcguinness, the abuse of spyware against our citizens is without doubt a serious violation of their basic rights and a worrying security problem. however, the possession and lawful and legitimate use of spyware, not its abuse, is a resource that responds to national security needs. it is therefore the sole responsibility of the member states, in accordance with article 4 of the treaty on european union. it is a very serious irresponsibility to use the argument of national security to cover up actions which go against the principles of freedom and democracy on which the european union itself is founded. this is what the governments of member states such as poland and hungary have tried to do, as we have seen on the ground. which may explain your refusal to answer the commission's questions and cooperate with our investigation. other member states, on the other hand, have cooperated with the commission and even sent ministers and senior officials to answer our questions - as is the case with greece - and they have done so even after having to listen to furious accusations without any evidence to back them up. we hope that the other member states will now also cooperate in a more committed manner.
mr president, the aim of the committee of inquiry into the use of the pegasus and other equivalent surveillance spy programmes was and is to determine the legal use of surveillance programmes to guarantee the fundamental rights of european citizens, that is to say, to delimit the legal use of the illegal use of these surveillance programmes. a legal surveillance program is a surveillance program, and an illegal surveillance program is a spy program. well, that is and was the aim of this committee: to map the reality of the use of such programmes by the member states to determine and assess whether this was being done within the legal framework that allows it, with the aim of fighting organised crime, terrorism - that is, defending democracy - or whether it was being done in an illegal and irregular way. that is what this committee is working on, that is the aim of its work. the work must be completed by the adoption of the report and the recommendations. one of the points to be made in the report is the commission's lack of commitment. it should also denounce the lack of commitment and response on the part of the member states. that's the point. i therefore fully support this complaint, pending the report's determination of the extent to which the member states and the commission are actually committed to defining and guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of citizens. let us not fall into the mistake of allowing the pegasus programme to become the trojan horse of the enemies of democracy against those who choose to defend it.
i thank you very much, mr wallace. i think even saint patrick would say you've strained your goodwill account pretty badly by now. it was a statement, not a vote. we want to check that for you today. the explanations of vote are closed.
the minutes of this meeting shall be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next meeting. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolutions adopted at today's sitting to the persons and bodies named in them.
the next meeting will take place on 29-30 march 2023.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday, 16 march 2023.
good afternoon, nice to see you all. can i please ask you to take your seats? we have an important anniversary to mark, dear colleagues. we have with us the president of the european council and the president of the european commission for this momentous occasion. we will begin today’s plenary session by marking the 25th anniversary of the belfast/good friday agreement. today, we highlight the continued significance of an agreement that is grounded in peace and reconciliation – an agreement that is helping to instil harmony between people. i invite you first to view a short video to mark this important moment. (a video was shown in the chamber) dear friends, there are few examples in european history of a people’s peace agreement such as the 1998 belfast/good friday agreement – brokered by the people of all of northern ireland, aided by the governments of the united kingdom and ireland, and supported by the european union and the united states of america. endorsed by people on both parts of the island of ireland, agreeing to lift borders that divided communities. defended by the people during post-brexit uncertainty, when the importance of the agreement became even more relevant. time and again, over the years, the european union and this parliament reiterated its unwavering support for the hard-earned peace process on the island of ireland. going forward, the 2023 windsor framework lays down arrangements for the protocol on ireland/northern ireland. it will charter a new way forward towards ending post-brexit uncertainties. dear europeans, the european peace project was borne from the ashes of world wars. it held the ambition of bringing peoples together in the hope of lasting peace and prosperity. nobel peace prize laureate john hume said in this house, and as we just heard in the video: ‘what we all have to learn is what the peoples of europe learned. difference is not something we should be engaged in conflict about. it is something we should respect.’ europe is a place of reconciliation where everyone’s voice counts. this european parliament is a place where peoples of europe have come together, setting aside past resentment to talk and to listen. the transcripts of the dialogue held in this parliament between former members of the european parliament from northern ireland is evidence of that willingness to set aside animosity and that willingness to talk and to listen. and this house evidently provided a platform for this dialogue for peace. twenty-five years ago, members of the european parliament welcomed the belfast/good friday agreement with warm and heartfelt admiration and with gratitude, because northern ireland’s people reminded all europeans of the fundamental values on which europe’s peace and prosperity lay. over 25 years of peace, people’s daily lives in northern ireland have been transformed. they no longer live with the threat of violence. all-island cooperation is everywhere to be seen. and yet, this belfast/good friday agreement still needs nurturing. issues relating to social justice and civic cooperation were central to the agreement. civil activists and promotors of peace in northern ireland know that commitment to civil and political rights is key. the agreement restored self-government to northern ireland on the basis of power-sharing and all of us here believe in parliamentary democracy. we will do what we can to promote that concept and i look forward to being able to exchange ideas with parliamentarians in northern ireland. as that young woman in the video said, ‘if the good friday agreement were to go, aye, it probably might be quite scary’. and that is why we are marking the 25th anniversary of the belfast/good friday agreement in this house of european democracy today. because preserving peace is so important and listening to all sides respectfully is key.
president of the european council. – madam president of parliament, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, alexandra park sits in the heart of north belfast. during the troubles, this park was sliced in two by a wall – like a dark scar winding through the green landscape. a ‘peace wall’, it was called, because like the dozens of other ‘peace walls’ erected over four decades, it was built to stop the fighting. these walls divided two communities that shared the same language but that would not use that language to talk to each other. for decades, they fought. for decades, they kept their children apart. ladies and gentlemen, 25 years ago, the good friday agreement was signed: a remarkable achievement that took real political leadership and visionary leaders that did not fear compromise. it broke the cycle of decades of violence and ushered in peace, stability and reconciliation. this agreement took 700 days of negotiations by men and women of courage, along with the determination of our american friends. the uk and ireland’s membership in the eu – and later in the single market – provided common ground on which to build a lasting peace, by bringing people together and by removing the physical, economic and psychological barriers between people. the eu was crucial to reaching the good friday agreement and has been essential to ensure its survival throughout all these years. in fact, the good friday agreement also echoes back to another major moment in history, 41 years earlier: the treaty of rome; this founding treaty of our european union that aspired, after the tragedy of world war ii, to build up a spirit that unites and to draw down borders that divide. peace in ireland and european integration are staked in the same ideal, exploiting the richness of diversity rather than sowing division. the good friday agreement is also an important reminder that we are all capable of feeling strong emotion and connection to more than one nation. this is not something to fear: multiple identities are part of human nature and we should keep this in mind across our regions that are on their own journeys of peace, reconciliation and cooperation within our european family. ladies and gentlemen, the ‘peace wall’ in alexandra park still stands today, but this symbol of division now has a gate, with families crossing between the two sides. what was once a symbol of fear and separation is now, today, a sign of peace, progress and common future. it is an open door to greater tolerance, respect and diversity. this was the spirit and energy that forged the good friday agreement 25 years ago, and this is the spirit and energy we still need today to protect these hard-won gains and to build a lasting peace for the children on the island of ireland and everywhere in europe.
president of the commission. – madam president metsola, dear roberta, president michel, dear charles, honourable members, 25 years ago, the leaders of northern ireland, ireland and the uk made the impossible come true. for years, every attempt to broker peace had failed. at easter in 1998, when a new proposal was put on the table, the talks were once again on the verge of collapse. it felt like northern ireland could return to violence. it took the courage and the vision of some extraordinary leaders to cross the finish line. but this success was not only made at the negotiating table in the places such as hillsborough castle. at the time, outside the castle, a small crowd of schoolchildren had gathered, with their parents and their teachers. they came from catholic and protestant families, and they carried balloons and signs with two simple words: ‘peace, please’. it was a stark reminder of what was at stake in those negotiations. not only different identities, ideals and allegiance, but the future of the children in northern ireland. the good friday (belfast) agreement has delivered on the simple demand of those children, with 25 years of peace, 25 years of possibilities. so today, we celebrate brave leaders, like john hume and david trimble, who came from opposing sides and ended up sharing a nobel peace prize. but we also celebrate all the peace-loving people of ireland and northern ireland – the unsung heroes of the good friday (belfast) agreement. the good friday (belfast) agreement not only ended 30 years of the troubles, it also opened a new era of cooperation. as the first line of the agreement says, it is ‘the opportunity for a new beginning’ for the two communities and the two islands, and it was indeed a new beginning. in these 25 years, northern ireland has taken giant steps forward, also thanks to european support. checkpoints have been replaced with sports venues and schools. just recently, a wall was torn down in west belfast to make room for an eu-funded community centre. of course, many other walls still stand, not all wounds have healed. while a peace deal can be signed with the stroke of a pen, reconciliation is always the work of generations. but, as one of northern ireland’s greatest sons, van morrison, said, ‘for the healing, go on with the dreaming’. and this is what makes the good friday (belfast) agreement so important. beyond the letter and the spirit, there is a promise of a better future for all the people of northern ireland. sadly, the brexit referendum raised new challenges for both the letter and the spirit and the promise of the good friday (belfast) agreement. since 2016, everyone in our union has worked hard to avoid that brexit became an obstacle on the path of reconciliation on the island of ireland. this journey was never smooth. but our goal is now finally in sight. as a set of joint solutions under the withdrawal agreement, the windsor framework continues to support the letter, the spirit and the promise of the good friday (belfast) agreement. it preserves our precious single market. it preserves northern ireland’s integral place in the united kingdom’s internal market. and, crucially, it preserves the foundations of peace by avoiding a hard border on the island of ireland. i want to thank the british prime minister, rishi sunak, for his can-do approach. together, we are staying true to the good friday promise that never again will there be a hard border on the island of ireland. all of this is an immense opportunity for the people of northern ireland. they will have the same food on their supermarket shelves and the same access to medicines as in the rest of the uk, and they will continue to have unique access to the single market, that is, the most powerful driver of growth all across our continent. everyone in northern ireland will benefit from this, whether they identify as irish, british, northern irish, european or a combination of all these. so i can only hope that rationality will once again prevail, just like it did 25 years ago. honourable members, thanks to the good friday (belfast) agreement, there’s a whole generation of young people in northern ireland who were born and raised in peace, who will not accept to go back to the problems of the past, who just want to live a full life. they understand better than anyone else that peace and prosperity were not achieved once and for all on that good friday agreement, a quarter of a century ago. peace and prosperity must be re-won, day after day, generation after generation. so today, we do not just gather for commemoration, but for a new commitment to keep working for reconciliation in northern ireland, in spite of all setbacks, for the next 25 years and way beyond. the uk may have left our union, but peace remains the european promise. long live europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, as just rightly described by our three presidents, the troubles in northern ireland were one of the darkest chapters in recent european history. for the longest time, deep historic rifts between unionists and nationalists made any negotiations for lasting peace seemingly impossible. with the 25th anniversary of the good friday (belfast) agreement, we are celebrating a historic development that remains essential to peace and indeed reconciliation in northern ireland. dear colleagues, the true test of political leadership comes when it takes courage to lead against popular belief, and the peace process on the island of ireland has known more than one courageous political leader. the good friday (belfast) agreement demonstrates it is possible to achieve great good in politics. ever since 1998, we, as the european union, we have worked alongside our uk and irish partners to implement exactly this agreement. it was exactly in this spirit that we conducted the brexit negotiations amid the rise of old questions of sovereignty and national identity. preventing a hard border on the island of ireland was and is an essential priority for the european union. particularly in times of serious geopolitical challenges, a stable cooperation with the united kingdom is so crucial. much more unites us than divides us. as just mentioned by the commission president, the windsor framework: with this windsor framework, we have found practical solutions to the challenges in the implementation of the protocol on ireland and northern ireland while maintaining the integrity of our eu single market. indeed, the windsor framework offers a united way forward, but it also honours the historic achievements we are commemorating today. together with our uk partners, let us use this momentum to walk the talk and to implement the solutions reached on paper.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, for the last 25 years, the belfast/good friday agreement has delivered on its promise of peace and stability for northern ireland. peace is not a minor issue, as we all know, and we should recall this today more than ever. 25 years of peace in northern ireland is a remarkable political achievement that indeed deserves proper celebration, so that we all can praise the progress made and the parties involved can renew their commitment to working together for a peaceful future in northern ireland. carefully negotiated and successfully concluded in 1988 under a labour government led by tony blair, with the full engagement of remarkable irish political leaders, the good friday agreement made all the difference for the people in northern ireland. instead of violence, peace; instead of confrontation, dialogue, compromise and co-operation; instead of struggles for domination and power, cross-community power sharing. challenging resentment and disbelief, the good friday agreement has worked for the last 25 years and still sets the framework for new ambitions for the future of the island of ireland. the european union is not just a mere spectator of the good friday agreement; it is an engaged party in this international agreement, fully committed to delivering its promises in all its parts. that is why it was always clear for the european union that, despite brexit, and while safeguarding the integrity of the european union’s single market, we had to keep the promise of not having a hard border again between the republic of ireland and northern ireland. this has been, since the beginning, the goal of the commonly agreed northern ireland protocol, just as it is now the goal of the recently agreed windsor framework. for us it is clear that the time has come to turn the page of this absurd confrontation against the eu. more than that, we need immediately to see power-sharing coming back to northern ireland so that after 25 years of peace, we can build 25 years of prosperity for the people in northern ireland.
on behalf of the renew group. – president metsola, president michel, president von der leyen and colleagues, today’s ceremony is very, very welcome. sometimes we under-sell the eu’s role in sustaining peace in northern ireland – a role i would argue is even more significant than that of the united states. the peace in northern ireland is, in my view, one of the european union’s greatest achievements. it was the eu that provided the financial support through structural funds and the peace programme. it was the eu and its single market that made borders less relevant. it was the eu that provided the context and arena for closer relations that otherwise would have been impossible. in may 2007, ian paisley, a former mep, contacted the irish government to request that josé manuel barroso would come to belfast to be in attendance at paisley’s first official meeting with martin mcguinness. the presence of the eu was visually important to what otherwise would have been an awkward moment for paisley. and it was the eu that provided the symbolism of peace-building. as the 1952 coal and steel treaty aimed at ‘building a broader and deeper community among peoples long divided by bloody conflict’, sdlp mep and nobel prize-winner, john hume, used this language as a framework to ensure that the eu would play a role – much to the irritation of the uk government. however, ultimately the greatest credit goes to the people of northern ireland. now, after an era of peace, 25 years later, the tantalising prize of prosperity awaits. for the next generation, the eu must continue to play a role and, in my view, support reform of the good friday agreement. presently, the cost of staying out of the northern ireland executive is too low, and for too long bad behaviour has been rewarded. while the brexit negotiations have been agonising – and in this respect, i’d like to pay tribute to both michel barnier and maroš šefčovič for all of their perseverance – the good friday agreement and the eu’s role in it can only be properly honoured by staying the course and maintaining support for a speedy return of the northern ireland executive and the dawn of a new era in northern ireland.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear colleagues, today we are celebrating the 25th anniversary of the good friday agreement. the good friday agreement came after long conflict. 3 500 people have lost their lives in decades marked by violence, by insecurity and by hatred. this agreement is a symbol of committed peace-building, and 25 years later we acknowledge the hard work, the political will and the commitment that was put into making it happen by so many people. colleagues, we all know that brexit has shaken the political situation in northern ireland and made many of the questions that still need resolving more difficult, and this is not going to go away for a while. but, with the windsor framework, the european union and the uk have recently shown that constructive negotiations based on trust and understanding have a good outcome even in difficult situations. we will continue to do everything in our power to secure peace in northern ireland and to support the good friday agreement. let’s also never forget, peace is not only the absence of armed conflict. safeguarding fundamental rights of all citizens is a crucial part of a sustainable peace, and that is why the european convention on human rights has played such an important role for peace—building in northern ireland and the good friday agreement. that is why defending the european convention on human rights is absolutely crucial, especially now that we see it being put under attack. colleagues, the european union was built on promoting peace. on the ruins of violent conflict, millions of people came together. so let us not only remember the great effort it took to achieve peace and the good friday agreement, but let’s build on this spirit for the future – for a peaceful, a just and a democratic ireland, united kingdom and europe built on understanding, on trust and on human rights.
on behalf of the left group. – a uachtaráin, it is only right that this house celebrates the good friday agreement and the 25 years of peace and progress it has brought to the island of ireland. this historic agreement put in place a new constitutional framework in the north of ireland that would finally guarantee equality, justice and human rights. the good friday agreement is a peace process and a political process. it’s a living, breathing document. it is a framework which guarantees that the people of ireland – north and south – will decide whether to unite or whether the north remains tied to britain. my hope is that, within this decade, the people will be asked to be part of a new ireland – a modern, forward-looking society based on peace, equality and social progress within the european union. the future of the whole island is one where we work together for the benefit of all. over the years, most of the problems have stemmed from tory governments’ failure to act – as the agreement says they should – with rigorous impartiality. a continued failure to uphold the agreement. consistently taking one political side does nobody any favours. it merely delays the progress that we know must happen. to those who reject the very principles of the good friday agreement, i have a simple message: equality benefits everyone. we should be able to move beyond seeing our neighbours as our enemies. attempts to deny rights to different groups of people – marriage equality, reproductive rights, language rights – damage the economic and social cohesion of the north. we should all be working together for the benefit of all the people, which is why the executive in the north must be established without delay. building an economy that benefits everyone; building a society that works for all, where no one is left behind. that’s why it is important that this house celebrates the 25th anniversary. and i have no doubt that this house and the eu will continue to play an important role for the next 25 years as the good friday agreement embarks upon its next chapter.
thank you very much, mr macmanus, thank you to all the colleagues.
we now move to the agenda of this current plenary. i understand that there are many points of order, but i need to make a few announcements first, and then everybody will be given the floor. first of all, dear colleagues, our lgbti intergroup has raised the issue of the new so—called anti-homosexuality bill in uganda. uganda’s parliament last week passed one of the world’s toughest laws against homosexual activities. if signed into law by the president, this could mean life sentences for people who identify as lgbti. the bill is deeply concerning. it targets entire communities and serves to scapegoat lgbti persons. and this parliament has repeatedly reaffirmed that people should be allowed to live as they wish to live, be who they wish to be, and love as they wish to love. and we reiterate that now.
the minutes and the texts adopted of the sitting of 16 march 2023 are available. are there any comments? i see that there are no comments, so the minutes are approved.
stefano maullu, former member, and clara ponsatí obiols have submitted requests for defence of their parliamentary immunities in the context of legal proceedings in italy and spain respectively. these requests are referred to the committee on legal affairs.
the renew europe group has notified me of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees. these decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and take effect on the date of this announcement.
several committees have decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations, pursuant to rule 71(1) of the rules of procedure. the reports, which constitute the mandates for the negotiations, are available on the plenary webpage and their titles will be published in the minutes of the sitting. pursuant to rule 71(2), members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold may request in writing by tomorrow, thursday 30 march at midnight, that the decisions be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in parliament is made within the deadline, the committees may start the negotiations.
the afco committee has proposed an interpretation of rule 9(6) of parliament’s rules of procedure. the text is available on the plenary webpage and will be published in the minutes of the sitting. pursuant to rule 236(4), members or a political group reaching at least the low threshold may contest the committee’s interpretation within a period of 24 hours following this announcement. if the interpretation is not contested, it shall be deemed approved.
we now come to the order of business. so i understand that there are some colleagues who want to make points of order, also with regard to changes of the agenda, so we’ll take them one by one.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot fail to draw your attention to the gravity of what happened yesterday in france, where the court of cassation once again refused to extradite to italy ten terrorists who were accused of heinous crimes such as murder, but who have lived for decades with impunity under the protection of a member state of this community. i ask you now how it is possible to tolerate within the european union, which makes respect for the rule of law a founding principle, that there can be a country which protects terrorism, still applying the mitterrand doctrine in 2023 and preventing another member state from achieving in its own country that justice which its people have been longing for. we therefore call on the european institutions to take a strong stand in defence of the families of the victims of terrorism, who are european citizens as much as anyone else and who therefore have the sacred right to justice, because the rule of law is a principle which must apply to everyone and cannot be a weapon to be used at will only to politically strike at unwanted governments.
madam president, i would like to raise a point of order on the basis of rules 7 and 8. specifically, i would like to draw your attention to president metsola’s failure to comply with the president’s obligations to assert my immunity and protect the independence of this chamber. yesterday, i was illegally arrested in barcelona, and i requested president metsola to defend my immunities. i have received no answer to my request and, to my knowledge, she has taken no action whatsoever except, as she has recently informed, passing on the case bureaucratically to the juri committee. i have to wonder about this lack of compliance of the defence of immunities in front of an illegal arrest of a member of the european parliament, which has not happened before in the history of this parliament. is this a policy of the presidency or is this just an attitude that you reserve for us catalans?
thank you, dear member. i presume you did not hear my announcements at the beginning of the session, so i ask you to look back at what i said exactly. i see ms montserrat wants the floor, and then many other colleagues.
madam president, you think this is the parliament of catalonia, where you can do whatever you want. this is the european parliament and here democracy is defended against those who trample it underfoot. here, we all know that you are fugitives from justice, that you have run over the law and that you must answer to spanish justice. it is enough with all the secessionist theatre, with the small number of voters in barcelona yesterday, with selling themselves as victims and manipulating the truth. the only thing that has changed here is that sánchez has given in to you for fear of losing power, lowering the spanish penal code. socialist gentlemen, the dignity of a country is never for sale, not even for a handful of votes. there is no immunity, no impunity. defence of the rule of law and democracy, always.
madam president, as a catalan, i would ask you to please try to prevent this house from becoming a forum for political debate which goes against the principles we have just defended. we were just celebrating a space of encounter, of union, of agreement. this kind of situation doesn't help at all. you've given a way out of a situation that... look, i have an opinion - i've given it before in the media - but i think this is not the space. the space you have led it properly where it has to be produced is in the appropriate committee. i would like this house not to be used to make a political show, which i think at a time like this, and after we have been talking about what we were talking about, is absolutely degrading and i think not suitable for your political action.
madam president, i would also like to invoke rule 8 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament to refer to the arrest of comrade clara ponsati by the spanish supreme court judge, pablo llarena, when she returned home to catalonia after five years in exile. it is unheard of for a judge to order an arrest for a crime that does not even involve deprivation of liberty, such as the crime of disobedience, and then hold him for hours, despite having all his political rights intact. we therefore call on the president of this house to defend the immunity of mrs ponsati and to demand that the spanish judiciary once and for all abide by european law and abandon the judicial brexit in which it has settled.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, from the words we heard at the last plenary session in strasbourg and also from the words we hear today on the subject of competitiveness and the future of our industry and economy, it seems that the european institutions have clear ideas, and therefore target in the proposals those points that we lack, from the reduction of bureaucratic complexity to the implementation of a functioning capital market, which are the first two requirements for managing a project of industrial transition as massive as the one we are trying to manage. but i am a little skeptical, if you look at the commission's proposal and also look at some of the measures that these institutions have tried to take in times of crisis. many of my colleagues have been in this parliament for a long time and unfortunately, in the last ten years, we have experienced many critical moments, many moments of crisis, when the european institutions have tried to propose innovative and revolutionary instruments. sadly, these innovative and revolutionary tools, heralded with such fanfare, have proved to be little more than a trickle. looking at the commission's latest proposal, the industrial transition package that has been presented, the guidelines of which have been outlined in this house, i am reminded of what the juncker commission did with the juncker plan. it was presented in the chamber with much fanfare on the same basis, because the problems were the same: too much bureaucracy, too much complexity, too much centralism and an undeveloped capital market. the juncker plan did not achieve these objectives, and today we are again talking about the same problems with similar solutions. it doesn't work. it can't work like this. we are managing a major industrial transition and we must do so pragmatically. the fallacy of the industrial transition package shows that the entire foundation of the green deal, which was launched in 2019, is not solid. we are still in time to change and we are still in time, and i conclude, mr president, to understand that this project was born as a project of freedom, both after the second world war and in 1992 against the soviet leadership. today, i am not a little concerned to see these institutions propagating authoritarianism and centralism. this is a freedom project. we must keep these principles firmly in our proposals.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, mr michel, mrs von der leyen, the summit had a very rich agenda. but now that we have the opportunity to discuss it after the summit, we have to assess the results, and the results are extremely poor, and the responsibility falls more on you, mr michel, the council, than on the commission. let's be honest with each other. the changes to the stability pact were on the agenda. the commission has submitted a proposal, years too late, which, although inadequate, is a small positive step, because we all know that the stability pact has not been in line with reality for many years. and what is your decision, mr. michel? that you subscribe to the march ecofin conclusions, which march ecofin conclusions what do they say? the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. secondly, we have a banking crisis. the commission has tabled a proposal for edis, the european deposit guarantee scheme, which is supported by the european central bank, which has been slowing down for years. but back to the council ? and here comes the new turmoil in the banking system, which even touched deutsche bank, the "too big to fail", and you still kick. you let the years go by. finally, you talk about competitiveness, and rightly so. but can we achieve our objectives for innovation, research, european investment, the sovereign fund, which you proposed with a budget of 1% of european gdp? the council's contribution to the progress of the own resources agreement is now at an end. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why i think, madam president, that it is more important to discuss not before the summits but after the summits, because it seems that the ship of the european union with the council's main responsibility is going too little, too slowly, and often in the wrong direction.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president von der leyen, mr president michel, we are not satisfied with the outcome of the last european council, as is the case with the five star movement. europe cannot meet the global challenge of sustainable transition without additional resources. the derogation from state aid alone is not enough and benefits countries such as france and germany, increasing inequality between member states. i ask you: italy, spain and other small countries where will they find the resources to finance the transition we so badly want? will our companies be able to compete with american and chinese companies? a new recovery fund is needed, financed by new european debt. president meloni is wrong to side with the sovereignist countries on the issue of migrants, who are opposed to redistribution and legal access routes. we shall proceed without delay with the reform of the dublin regulation. i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. i urge you, you can, we believe you can because you have shown it in other tragic circumstances.
madam president, president michel, thank you for keeping ukraine high on the agenda of the european council. let me be clear: the best and quickest way for peace in europe and in ukraine, and for safeguarding peace on our continent, is providing immediate and consistent military support to ukraine. this helps ukraine and it protects also europe. we should not be afraid of russia’s defeat. we should be afraid of russia’s victory. the stronger russia becomes, the more dangerous it is for us, for our way of life. the weaker russia is after the war, the less it will be able to challenge the rule of law, democracy, freedom of speech, freedom of expression, democratic institutions and european institutions. this is what we stand for, and these are the actual targets of the russian federation. we can better protect these if russia is defeated; a strong russia is a danger for us, not a weak russia. president michel, thank you also for travelling to moldova yesterday and for supporting the republic of moldova. and i believe that it is correct that the european council has asked the commission to put forward a new support package for moldova ahead of the next european council. for us, the epp group, into that package belong two elements. strengthening the european security hub in the republic of moldova that we are helping create together, because the security challenges for our neighbourhood and for us are the same; through that security hub, we can better tackle those challenges. and secondly, trade. the more we help moldova, ukraine, to develop economically, the closer they will be to the european union, the easier, the smoother the integration process. so security and trade are essential in relations with ukraine and with moldova.
madam president, madam president von der leyen, mr president michel, i want to welcome the council conclusions and i want to ask you to remember one thing: you spoke of competitiveness. it is the electricity prices paid by both people and industry that overwhelmingly determine the competitiveness of the european union's economy. unfortunately, two elements are missing: a market for methane gas and electricity, which ensures regulation. we have regulation all over the european union, but just to show you what, we don't regulate the gas market, we don't regulate the electricity market. and this leads to something else lack of transparency. no one in the european union knows why they pay these huge gas or electricity bills, because there is a near total lack of transparency and this needs to be regulated urgently. you talked about the fact that this net-zero industry was introduced. it's very good. but remember this: we cannot promote european industry as long as we do not allow that provision, which has been removed, wrongly, i say, in the procurement, that 50% of the products purchased with the money of taxes and duties paid by european citizens, are produced in the european union. we can't mass produce without this. and lastly, critical materials set in motion regulations that allow exploitation on all parts of the production chain, including refining in the european union. they're member states, they're from romania, 16 materials on the critical materials list are in romania, out of 31. all requests to start using these critical materials, some of them very rare and very valuable, unfortunately, have not received a favorable response and i think this should be corrected immediately and i think that mr. vice president šefčovič will take care of this.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president of the commission, mr president-in-office of the council, seven lines, those are the conclusions which the european council has drawn on the subject of immigration, after the rivers of tears that have been shed after the tragedy on the italian coast. politics is the art of finding compromises and solutions. to govern reality, not to bury your head in the sand. there are the responsibilities of many governments, starting with italy, which wins the golden palm of incoherence, as a loyal ally of poland and hungary, the enemies of relocation. a government which, as other members have pointed out, voted against the amendment of the dublin treaty in the libe committee in recent days. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, there are no easy solutions that can solve the problem in a short time, we are aware of that, but seven lines, seven lines of deferral to be used are certainly not an answer, not worthy of our europe.
madam president, the european economy is subject to pressures that can weaken its competitiveness and therefore its ability to generate and redistribute wealth. the latest scare related to, once again, the strength of the banking system. the geopolitical dynamic also poses challenges such as inflation or reducing strategic dependencies on technologies, energy or critical materials. and all this while we have to align our economic base to the ecological transformation. to successfully overcome all these challenges, there is a key area in which we are not doing enough, where we continue to lag behind, namely investment in research, development and innovation. at the last european council meeting, it was again requested that we achieve the target of investing 3 % of gdp in research, an objective that today only four member states fulfil – and we have been pushing for this goal for 21 years now. it will turn out that governments will make much more effort to reach the 2 % military spending target than the r&d target and this is worrying because we are talking about the long-term competitiveness of our economy.
madam president! in the context of the war in ukraine, which has been going on for a year, the council, as we heard, has focused on increasing the supply of arms and ammunition. and we need a ceasefire, a peace to avoid escalation, while still standing for the independence of ukraine. the same applies to ukraine's european integration, which must be supported, but at the same time must be conditional on guaranteeing the rights of the minorities living in the country, including transcarpathian hungarians. the union needs a strategic change of direction. the serious consequences of the war in ukraine - inflation, energy prices and the growing pressure of illegal migration at the external borders - are clear signs of this. while the declarations and plans are ambitious, they lack realistic impact assessments, just as they lack analysis of the impact of sanctions on russia. the ideological approach is undermining europe's competitiveness and jeopardising economic growth.
madam president, to speak of the european union is to speak of a success story and of shared achievements. we did it by overcoming the 2008 crisis, the pandemic with vaccines, european funding and with unity against putin. but we need a europe that keeps giving europeans a hand and european institutions that think more about their citizens. we must fight climate change, but without imposing short-term, unattainable policies that ruin businesses and families. we must protect the environment, but we must do so with the support of farmers and livestock farmers, not against them. we must promote and protect our products, not endanger them by harmful fishing decisions or by unfair competition with national products such as citrus fruit, or by criminalizing them as was the case with wine. we must re-industrialize europe, create jobs and wealth, to give opportunities to all our young people. but we must also protect the rule of law and the integrity of our countries against movements that seek to break up, divide society and flout the law. what affects one country affects the whole european union. europe is the best project of union, coexistence and economy. let us therefore raise the europeanist sentiment and make everyone believe in the european union. (the speaker refuses to answer an intervention by mr bogdan rzońca under the 'blue card' procedure.)
madam president, the importance of preventing the use of lies and disinformation has been underlined again in this council. i'm going to apologize for my intervention. i didn't think i'd have to do it, but we can't allow lies and misinformation to flourish in this house, because lies only flourish in silence. a member who is not present because she has already done the show and left has denounced an illegal detention by a member state, which is absolutely false. she was detained to appear before the justice because she did not want to appear before a judge. being a member of this parliament does not entitle anyone to disrespect the rule of law. again, i apologize for having to intervene at this minute. i've said it before: this is not the forum. it is not the forum for those who have abused their status as governors, and who have abused their status as members of parliament, to abuse their status to bring inappropriate debates to this parliament.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, 70 years after the introduction of equal pay, the gender pay gap persists in the european union. as we know that opacity is part of the problem, this directive, which finally recognizes information rights for all workers, is a great step forward. the amazing thing is that we've taken so long, we've lacked ambition and we're still late. part of the obligations of this directive, the obligations to report on pay gaps and pay assessment, leave 99% of european companies out because it only obliges those with more than 100 employees and only after eight years. we know that if it had been the commission and the council, we would not be talking about compulsory 1%, but 0.2%, so we have achieved something. but we have fallen far behind the spanish legislation, for example, where we have more progressive rules, with a threshold of 50 workers combined with equality schemes and, far from having generated additional burdens on companies, it has facilitated a socially fairer and economically more profitable business culture. paying the same for the same work is not a bureaucratic burden, it is a legal and moral obligation. in europe we have made progress, but much remains to be done for women.
mr president, commissioner, i thank the rapporteurs because today we are taking an important step in europe to combat wage discrimination against all women. in europe the wage gap is now around 13%, bringing the annual income gap to close to 40%. this translates into higher risk of poverty, higher and earlier labour market dropout, less ability to negotiate family time and jobs and greater inefficiency in our labour markets. that is why this pay transparency directive is welcome, which obliges - i insist - obliges companies with more than 100 employees to share comparative pay information so that we know whether work of equal value is being paid equally to different people and to avoid that pay is based on sexist criteria. if this is shown to be the case, the discriminated worker may claim compensation. in addition, member states are asked to provide for dissuasive sanctions and fines for companies that do not comply with these rules. today we are closer to a fairer europe.
in writing. the spanish socialist delegation in the european parliament votes in favour of this report because it brings us closer to ending the gender pay gap and to ensuring that women and men receive equal pay for equal work or work of equal value. the average gender pay gap in the eu remains at around 14%, and the difference in annual earnings is close to 40%. this gap is partly due to the lack of pay transparency, which facilitates gender discrimination. the socialists and democrats have succeeded in obtaining that companies with more than 100 employees must report annually on the wage gap and take action, and in strengthening labour rights through the trade union forces and shifting the burden of proof to companies and member states, and not to workers, who until now had to go to court to prove wage discrimination.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, in my country, greece, the country which gave birth to democracy, we have been experiencing for the last four years, with the full responsibility of the mitsotakis government, a great erosion of the rule of law, a glaring contraction of press freedom and pluralism, a spectacular decline in the independence of the judiciary. the european parliament, by a clear majority, has noted this erosion, condemned it and expects the commission, mrs jourová, to do more as a guardian of the rule of law. you wrote it well in your report and you presented it here for the appointment of the head of the judiciary by the government, which is instrumental in the judiciary and does nothing about the wiretapping scandal, the greek watergate. but tell us: why has mrs von der leyen been drinking the unspoken water for months? he has not made a single statement, not a single action on the wiretaps and this great scandal and the violations of the rule of law in greece. this petty policy undermines the commission's credibility and exposes mrs von der leyen.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, our parliament was fighting long and hard to launch the rule of law toolbox in the eu in sight. when reading the country report on 2022, i am posing myself the question, ‘was all this fight for nothing?’. it is evident that the method of desk research used by the commission for country reports is completely ineffective. when we discussed in february the wiretapping scandal in greece, i paid the attention of the commission that five recommendations given to greece in country report are too general to react. but the report on my country, latvia, has no recommendations at all. nothing about the criminal prosecution of 14 journalists just for working for so-called wrong media. nothing about anti-minority hate speech. nothing about problems with political party financing. i think the commission should upgrade the reporting methodology and in particular to devote more time to country visits and to engage better with national stakeholders, especially those who should follow the authorities, their position, their critics.
mr president, mrs jourová, we have heard a truly extraordinary statement: 'to criticize a government in a democratic setting is to insult a country'. no, we are democratically critical of the spanish government and we say, however, that spain does not have a structural problem of the rule of law. the problem of the rule of law that spain has is its government. but his government is fortunately not a structural condition, because governments change with the ballot box. vice president jourová, you have to give up hope. the spanish government has not complied with any of the recommendations in its reports, and it will not comply with any of them: not, of course, with the reform of the public prosecutor's office, nor with the reform of the general council of the judiciary. look, they ask us to play a game, but they say they're only going to play the first part and therefore there will be no talk of changing the system of electing the general council of the judiciary. in the next report, during the spanish presidency, we shall see, among other things, a government - and we must not look to israel - which uses its parliamentary majority to overrule judicial decisions when they affect its political allies. this is the summary of the situation of this government in spain and its stormy relationship with the rule of law.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the 2022 rule of law report was the third of its kind, with improvements over its predecessors, in particular the country-specific recommendations that we have long advocated as a parliament. but country-specific recommendations are of no use if they are too vague, if there are no deadlines. and country-specific recommendations are certainly not helpful if there are no consequences for member states if they do not or do not implement them properly. and even if the criticisms of the annual report are finally corrected, it will remain a paper tiger if no links are made to the article 7 procedures or the rule of law mechanism that have been stuck for years. we have these protective gear. and what happens? the commission is hiding behind the annual report and the infringement procedure. the last article 7 hearing in the council was last year, and the swedish presidency does not seem to care. she's not even here for today's debate. instead, the council holds an annual rule of law dialogue with a rotating group of member states, which remains inconclusive. but in the meantime, the situation of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights seems to be deteriorating day by day, before our very eyes. and that is unacceptable. it is, excuse me, mr president, sickening!
mr president, colleagues, the rule of law has sadly been reduced to tribal mud—slinging between the political parties, political party interests over principles. but the rule of law has no party affiliation, dear friends: if the rule of law is undermined, all citizens pay the price. the epp has drawn absolutely no lessons from 12 years of orbán in your midst, and you are still passionately defending the attacks on democracy in greece – don’t smile, it’s not funny. the s&d should also be more critical to some of its own members, and it is a mystery to me how the membership of mr fico sits with your social democratic values. but my own family – yes, also my own family – should be a lot more rigorous. now, on malta, despite several reforms, there has been no change in the political culture: journalists still under pressure; crimes from years ago are still going unpunished; justice is still weak and golden passports are still on sale. and yes, colleagues, the rule of law in greece is in the danger zone: a weak judiciary; state capture; spyware abuse for political purposes; corruption; pushbacks; journalists harassed and even killed; organised crime infiltrating the police. railroads are a disaster in greece; the sell-out of hospitals in malta. corruption is poison and it flourishes if the rule of law is weak. and finally, madam commissioner, i welcome your words, but frankly, words are cheap: polite letters to governments and action plans bring no change. the commission has the powers and the duty to act in the interest of the people, not the politicians.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when did the powers of justice, national security or official secrets come to brussels? i myself have denounced here, on many occasions, the abuses of the sánchez government. when european funds are auctioned off on nights of drugs and prostitutes - as in the case of tito berni - the rule of law is violated. we agree with the commission when it calls for sánchez to guarantee the independence of the attorney general, not to interfere in the appointment of the general council of the judiciary or to guarantee the independence of the media. but they have forgotten that mr sánchez has banned the exploration of geological resources which the commission is now demanding. the crime of sedition has been abolished to get the vote of the coup plotters. it's been downgraded to embezzlement for crooked politicians. laws are passed that set rapists of women and children free. the mutilation of the genitals of minors or the desecration of graves is permitted. we may agree on the analysis, but we will never agree that the solution is to strip the spanish of their sovereignty. on the contrary, i did. it will be this year, at the polls, where the spanish people will undo the deception and put an end to the worst government in our history.
mr president, it is a pity that mr weber is not here, given his recent concern for spain. i thought that he would not recover from the blow his party dealt him by nominating mrs von der leyen as president of the commission. but look at him, there he is, acting as leader of the opposition in my country. in fact, as it stands, i see you challenging mr feijóo for the presidency of the government. however, as i thought you were a bit out of your mind, i sent you a specific e-mail with the spanish constitution to clarify how judges are elected in my country. irony aside, gentlemen of the people's party, you are irresponsible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the problem of the rule of law in spain can be summed up in two words: partido popular. stop being ridiculous.
mr president, madam vice-president dear věra jourová , the rule of law is a precious legacy. it is also an acquired, but fragile, thing. the following is the record of the populist regimes in power in europe: deprivation of liberty, policing of values, oppression of the opposing forces. in italy, the government of mrs meloni is taking action by asking the city of milan to stop registering children of homosexual couples. what a shame! these children will be deprived of their identity with their parents. in hungary and poland the same well-known failures remain. i welcome the commission's annual report and the country-by-country recommendations. i welcome and support with my group the freezing of funds from the recovery plan for poland and hungary. but i also plead with my group, madam commissioner, to use the annual report tool to its full potential, by following up the recommendations and by initiating infringement procedures on the various points listed. it is urgent that europe arms itself to protect our values and the rule of law.
mr president, the truth is that one has lost all hope that the spanish right wing will behave with institutional dignity in the face of the presidency. once again, a debate. this time they also bring us a debate, proposed by the pp, with the support of vox and ciudadanos and the vote in favour of some pro-independence party. then they talk about "frankenstein coalitions". the one they've set up for this debate today is not bad, huh? but, having said that, the commissioner has mentioned two major problems in spain. i mentioned corruption. it would be a good opportunity for the people's party to clarify whether it intends to keep mr albiol, who is under investigation for corruption, as a candidate in badalona. it's a great opportunity for them to tell us. and then, in the matter of renewal of the general council of the judiciary, you don't hear... because the commissioner said: first, renewal, and then, change of choice. do your job, take your responsibilities, because the main problem spain has at the moment with the rule of law is that the leader of the opposition is a leader protected by the extreme right and by the conservative media in madrid.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! the draft resolution prepared by mr lópez aguilar is of little or no value, and the commissioner's statement is of little or no value either. why would you do that? you're not referring to the biggest corruption scandal ever to hit the european parliament. but the socialists still think they have the right to teach poland. so let's look at who created the documents that were the basis for the debates about poland. well, that's the fight impunity. where 's the president of that foundation ? he's in jail on corruption charges. where's the information on evie kaili? all this, ladies and gentlemen, here in the european parliament, because the socialists were allowed to lecture everyone around them, with their own dirty hands. did this report mention a corruption scandal? no, not a word. did the commissioner say anything about how the commission head negotiated vaccine prices? not a word. then this report is worthless.
mr. president, what a shame. yesterday mr weber said that they would not support national debates to avoid talking about the violation of lgbti rights in italy or espionage in greece, but he did encourage a debate on the rule of law in spain. i understand that you are very confused after seeing your colleague feijóo wandering around brussels, spilling lies, trying to prevent the pension pact and the arrival of funds in spain. but if you want to talk about the rule of law in spain, let's talk. let's talk about how the people's party has used public resources to build a political police force, spy on the opposition, create false evidence and boast of controlling judges, while we suffer from their avalanche of corruption cases. so much so, that the justice department labeled them a criminal organization. let us talk about the fact that in spain the popular party has been violating the constitution for four years by blocking the renewal of the general council of the judiciary, in the face of warnings from the european commission. ask mr. feijoo to stop his constitutional rebellion and show a little more respect for his country. and to the socialist party: you have other majorities to change this situation. let's not waste any more time.
mr president, commissioner, once again certain members are deliberately targeting greece, this time with reference to the murder of the journalist karaïvaz. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. are we serious ? greece has moved up nine places in the democracy index and 16 in the transparency index over the past four years, according to the transparency international report. the economy has been upgraded not once but twelve times over the years by international rating agencies, because the economic evaluators consider, among other things, the transparency that permeates the areas of financial management and utilization of funds. as for illegal software, you know that greece was the first to institute a ban on its use, possession and sale, and you also know that the cases of those who have been affected are pending before an independent judiciary. do you question its authority today? even the government's enemies do not claim it. 'there are judges in athens', the leader of the official opposition recently said. or is it that people are deliberately ignorant of the fact that democracy in greece has been operating on solid foundations for 50 years, that the rights of citizens and freedom of the press are guaranteed and that my country is governed by a constitution and a government democratically elected by the greek people? ladies and gentlemen, the prime minister of greece has called elections for may 21st. those who today raise the question of the rule of law are provocatively motivated by the opposition in my country. they are putting the rule of law in jeopardy. but in the european parliament we are elected to defend european values. and now, in this chamber, for the first time, there is an attempt to unfairly intervene in a member state of the european union which is officially in an election period. we're going to allow that?
mr president, i am saddened that my last speech in the european parliament is on the rule of law in greece, as is the provocative attitude of the government of the new democracy, which has avoided meeting the committee on civil liberties, offending above all the greek people. i therefore pledge to fight with all my strength so that illegal interceptions, human rights violations, attacks on independent authorities and the instrumentalisation of justice will soon be a bad memory. i believe that the rule of law is the first and foremost condition for the well-being of citizens. finally, in saying goodbye to you, i would like to thank the colleagues with whom we have worked for a union of solidarity and perspective, for a democratic and self-reliant europe, which is at the forefront of the protection of human rights and the environment. we all have a duty to fight for a europe of the peoples, to overcome all the obstacles of powerful economic and geopolitical interests which want a europe that is weak and manageable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner jourová, a general principle: the rule of law does not deteriorate overnight and political power can conceal it for a long time. concrete things: i am concerned about the situation in spain. the government of the judges is still effectively blocked. it's been four years. because the big parties, the people's party and the socialist party, don't want to change the law, because they want to keep control. the key, commissioner, is to change the law first; otherwise, we will never, ever get out of this situation. secondly, this particular government - and please be quiet, i am speaking to another member - is frightening the judges, sometimes for ideological reasons, into self-censorship, and the mere warnings of the commission have not yet achieved anything in this respect. the government has approved reforms to the penal code to reduce the penalties for embezzlement and has eliminated the crime of sedition to favour convicted criminals. partisanship is endemic in the control of public media, when it can do so, and in the partial or total capture of bodies that should be independent, such as the cis the important and powerful centre for sociological studies. the big parties in spain have this temptation. and the worst is the entry of the ultra-left populists into the spanish government. it's gotten worse since then, commissioner.
mr president, i would like to thank the spanish pp for proposing this debate on the rule of law in spain, because this is indeed a very worrying problem in which, by the way, they are an active part. spanish justice has been in the hands of politicians for years. this includes the constitutional court, the supreme court and the court of auditors. but my gratitude is above all because i did not expect that it will be precisely the pp that endorses one of our lines of defence to prevent our extradition – an argument that we have defended in the process of withdrawing our immunity and before, to the european general court. this is the politicisation of spanish justice. my sincere thanks. now it will be even easier for us to explain that the real problem we are suffering is political persecution, because if you, a governmental party, complain about the politicisation of justice, what do you think is happening to us who are a national minority or, in the words of the european court of justice, an objectively identifiable group of people?
mr president, spain is suffering from a worrying trend of democratic degradation, institutional deterioration and governmental irresponsibility brought about by the present socialist and communist government. you on the left here today were worried about corruption and women. and you're the ones who have reformed the penal code, repealing sedition and lowering the crime of corruption. with you, over seventy-five sex offenders have been released from prison and over seven hundred have had their sentences reduced. you have put the institutions at the service of the government. and even you have ended up putting a minister and a high government official on the constitutional court. as if that were not enough, they carried out a political persecution against a colonel of the civil guard, which they illegally stopped. a ceasefire, by the way, overturned this week by the supreme court itself. it's the modus operandi of an unscrupulous government that's capable of anything to cling to power. we are here to defend spain and the spanish people, not to defend a bad government. spain is a great nation, a full democracy and a state of law, but with the worst government in democracy.
mr president, i was going to make a general comment on the rule of law in europe, but it has been impossible for me to avoid this coincidence which has occurred in the lobby between the catalan independence movement and the european people's party, in this case the spanish people's party. they make a very similar analysis of what the rule of law is in spain. they have a very similar vision, very similar. i think that would be enough to avoid having to go into much more detail about the responsibility of the spanish people's party with regard to the international prestige of our country. all of which said, what is clear is that liberal democracy is facing many challenges also in europe that have to do with the social transformations that are taking place, with the technological transformation and the digitization of our societies. and it's important -- it's a characteristic of liberal democracies -- that we do self-criticism, that we try to improve. that is why it is important that we reflect on this and that we adopt this document on the state of the rule of law in europe. that said, what does not fit here or should not fit here are small-scale tactical debates, which are also a constant, mimetic repetition of debates we have held here. i shall not therefore dwell on some of the arguments i have already used on this subject.
mr president, commissioner, if there is one thing that we have been clear about from the greens/efa group, it is that the scope of the european commission's rule of law report must be extended urgently to include issues such as the state of democracy and fundamental rights in the member states. if i open the report on the page that refers to the spanish state, for example, there is no trace of the plot formed by corrupt journalists, police and judges who coordinated under the baton of the ministry of the interior of the pp to blackmail, extort, fabricate hoaxes and falsify reports in order to end catalan independence. nor is there any trace of the 65 cases of illegal pegasus spying by different spanish governments against the catalan leaders. but there is no trace of structural corruption affecting the head of state either. no sign of the imprisonment of rappers like pablo hasel, convicted for singing. no sign of the migrant killings on the southern border. ladies and gentlemen, let us be picky about this. otherwise, there will soon be no trace of democracy or the rule of law.
in writing. we socialists are firmly committed to the defence of the rule of law. we therefore call for the adoption as soon as possible of an interinstitutional agreement on the follow-up to the rule of law framework. at the same time, we regret that once again the spanish right and far right, with the help of the catalan independence campaigners, have forced a debate that does not exist to try to damage the image of their own country and, what is more regrettable, a few months before the spanish presidency of the council begins. what the popular party is trying to hide, besides the corruption they have been carrying for years, is that they have been blocking the renewal of the general council of the judicial power for five years and therefore refusing to comply with the law.
in writing. we socialists are firmly committed to the defence of the rule of law. we therefore call for the adoption as soon as possible of an interinstitutional agreement on the follow-up to the rule of law framework. at the same time, we regret that once again the spanish right and far right, with the help of the catalan independence campaigners, have forced a debate that does not exist to try to damage the image of their own country and, what is more regrettable, a few months before the spanish presidency of the council begins. what the popular party is trying to hide, besides the corruption they have been carrying for years, is that they have been blocking the renewal of the general council of the judicial power for five years and therefore refusing to comply with the law.
in writing. we socialists are firmly committed to the defence of the rule of law. we therefore call for the adoption as soon as possible of an interinstitutional agreement on the follow-up to the rule of law framework. at the same time, we regret that once again the spanish right and far right, with the help of the catalan independence campaigners, have forced a debate that does not exist to try to damage the image of their own country and, what is more regrettable, a few months before the spanish presidency of the council begins. what the popular party is trying to hide, besides the corruption they have been carrying for years, is that they have been blocking the renewal of the general council of the judicial power for five years and therefore refusing to comply with the law.
in writing. we socialists are firmly committed to the defence of the rule of law. we therefore call for the adoption as soon as possible of an interinstitutional agreement on the follow-up to the rule of law framework. at the same time, we regret that once again the spanish right and far right, with the help of the catalan independence campaigners, have forced a debate that does not exist to try to damage the image of their own country and, what is more regrettable, a few months before the spanish presidency of the council begins. what the popular party is trying to hide, besides the corruption they have been carrying for years, is that they have been blocking the renewal of the general council of the judicial power for five years and therefore refusing to comply with the law.
in writing. we socialists are firmly committed to the defence of the rule of law. we therefore call for the adoption as soon as possible of an interinstitutional agreement on the follow-up to the rule of law framework. at the same time, we regret that once again the spanish right and far right, with the help of the catalan independence campaigners, have forced a debate that does not exist to try to damage the image of their own country and, what is more regrettable, a few months before the spanish presidency of the council begins. what the popular party is trying to hide, besides the corruption they have been carrying for years, is that they have been blocking the renewal of the general council of the judicial power for five years and therefore refusing to comply with the law.
in writing. we socialists are firmly committed to the defence of the rule of law. we therefore call for the adoption as soon as possible of an interinstitutional agreement on the follow-up to the rule of law framework. at the same time, we regret that once again the spanish right and far right, with the help of the catalan independence campaigners, have forced a debate that does not exist to try to damage the image of their own country and, what is more regrettable, a few months before the spanish presidency of the council begins. what the popular party is trying to hide, besides the corruption they have been carrying for years, is that they have been blocking the renewal of the general council of the judicial power for five years and therefore refusing to comply with the law.
mr president, although the package of measures under objective 55 has been improving substantially throughout the negotiation process with the conclusion of various agreements, let me focus on a point which has gone unnoticed by some, such as the connection of the outermost regions. the council and the european commission have not listened to the demands of this house and have decided that flights between the outermost regions and other european destinations outside the same member state must also pay for co2 emission allowances. in the coming years, travel to regions such as the canary islands will become more expensive for german, belgian or finnish tourists, which means a loss of competitiveness compared to other nearby destinations. and that would also be putting at risk the arrival of millions of tourists and thousands of jobs. i therefore deeply regret that for many people tourism and the regions directly dependent on it continue to be of little or no concern. and that is why i hope that the commission will assess the impact of this measure and revise the legislation, if necessary, in the future, because otherwise today the peripheral regions, such as the canary islands, would be further away from europe.
mr president, commissioner, we hereby welcome the intense and persistent struggle of the french workers and people against the increase in the retirement age, resisting the brutal repression to which they have been subjected. cynical and atrocious silence of the european institutions in the face of aggression and violation of fundamental rights and that does not ignore the eu's political option for increasing the retirement age pressure that persists in portugal , while seeking to undermine public social security systems, promoting their privatization, and promoting low wage policies. the sharp rise in the cost of living, which is inseparable from the european union's policy choices, has had a very hard impact on pensioners in portugal, many of whom are on poor pensions. in december 2021, the average pension was just over 508 euros, below the poverty line. the urgent and necessary thing is to raise pensions above inflation, as we have proposed at national level, an immediate interim increase of 9.1%, and never less than 60 euros. this is the way to honor a man who has worked his whole life.
the item is closed.
the next sitting is tomorrow, tuesday, 18 april 2023, at 9.00. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament website.
the minutes of this sitting will be submitted to parliament for its approval tomorrow, at the beginning of the afternoon.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the need for a coherent strategy for eu-china relations (2023/2637 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on behalf of the council. – mr president, members of the european parliament, president of the commission, colleagues of the commission, i want to speak in spanish, i think it’s going to be better for all of us. señorías, ustedes me convocan hoy a venir aquí al parlamento como presidente del consejo de asuntos exteriores para debatir sobre la necesidad de una estrategia coherente para las relaciones de la unión europea con china. siempre es bueno disponer de una estrategia coherente con respecto a china y sobre cualquier otra cuestión; es bueno tenerla. pero, tal como ustedes han formulado el título de este debate, parece que dan a entender que el parlamento europeo cree que la unión europea no dispone de esa estrategia coherente. y si es así, me siento directamente interpelado, me siento directamente concernido, porque como alto representante me corresponde, según el tratado, velar por la coherencia de la acción exterior de la unión europea. luego, si ustedes creen que tal coherencia no existe, algo debo de tener que ver yo con ello, aunque, seguramente, no solo yo. en todo caso, estamos hablando de política exterior y de seguridad común. estamos en el título v del tratado de funcionamiento de la unión europea. política exterior común, pero no única, porque cada estado miembro mantiene competencias propias en política exterior. aunque también se hayan comprometido a construir progresivamente una política común, cada uno tiene la suya. y por eso, en una relación tan compleja como la que tenemos con china, inevitablemente hay diferentes puntos de vista porque hay diferentes intereses entre los estados miembros. es así. pero, si queremos construir una estrategia coherente de la unión con respecto a china, es necesario que todos y cada uno de los agentes de la unión actúen conforme a los tratados, y respetándolos plenamente, en el ejercicio de sus respectivas funciones y responsabilidades. cada uno a lo suyo. y eso afecta a todos: a los estados miembros, al consejo europeo, al consejo, a la comisión, y también ustedes, al parlamento europeo. señorías, como ustedes saben y han reflejado acertadamente en su informe paet, la política exterior y de seguridad común y, como parte de ella, la relación con china, la define por unanimidad el consejo europeo y el consejo. el consejo europeo determina los intereses estratégicos de la unión, fija los objetivos y define las orientaciones generales de esta política exterior. y, basándose en ello, el consejo de exteriores que presido elabora la política exterior y de seguridad común (pesc) y adopta las decisiones necesarias para aplicarla. ciertamente, la comisión, a la que me honra pertenecer como vicepresidente, tiene también un papel fundamental en ámbitos con un impacto enorme en nuestras relaciones exteriores. y ahora que, como ha dicho la presidenta, estamos hablando cada vez más de seguridad económica como parte integrante de la seguridad nacional, esas competencias y ese papel son mayores. ese concepto de seguridad nacional, de seguridad económica, va a tener una influencia determinante en la manera en que concebimos nuestras relaciones exteriores. países como los estados unidos y japón ya lo incluyen claramente en su estrategia de seguridad nacional. y nosotros deberíamos hacer lo mismo, teniendo en cuenta las características institucionales de la unión y el hecho de que son fundamentalmente los estados miembros los que disponen de los instrumentos necesarios para ejecutar esta seguridad económica a través de controles o restricciones a la exportación y a las inversiones en el interior y en el exterior. señorías, como ustedes saben, tenemos una estrategia con respecto a china, la del año 2019, el tríptico famoso. y, sin duda, desde entonces han pasado muchas cosas y esta estrategia tiene que ser recalibrada para adaptarse a las nuevas circunstancias. pero la unión europea nunca, hasta ahora, ha definido explícitamente a china como una amenaza directa para nuestra seguridad, como sí lo hizo con respecto a rusia el consejo europeo en la declaración de versalles de 2022. este enfoque multifacético, este tríptico, ha demostrado su validez ante la creciente asertividad de china, pero en los últimos tiempos nuestras relaciones se han visto sustancialmente deterioradas. ustedes saben muy bien por qué y cómo: las sanciones de marzo de 2021, las contrasanciones impuestas por china —también contra miembros de esta casa—, la coerción económica contra lituania o el aumento de las tensiones en el estrecho de taiwán. en ese contexto, se han ido planteando contribuciones relevantes al debate sobre la revisión de nuestras relaciones con china: la propia resolución aprobada por este parlamento, el discurso de la presidenta von der leyen y la toma en consideración de las medidas adoptadas por los estados unidos para imponer controles a la exportación de semiconductores y a las inversiones en china en el marco de su nueva estrategia de seguridad nacional. y todos ustedes tienen bien presentes las recientes visitas oficiales a china, tanto del presidente del consejo europeo el año pasado como de la presidenta de la comisión y de varios jefes de estado y de gobierno de los estados miembros. por mi parte, ya en el último consejo de asuntos exteriores, en marzo, planteé la urgencia y la necesidad de dedicar nuestro próximo consejo —el de abril— a las relaciones con china. y seguiremos trabajando en esta línea hasta que los líderes reunidos en el consejo europeo decidan revisar la actual estrategia. y ahora, puesto que, como alto representante de la unión, me corresponde, según el tratado, contribuir a elaborar esta estrategia, permítanme resumir, cómo veo yo personalmente —no pretendo decir que tengo un mandato del consejo para hacerlo todavía— nuestra relación con china y cómo debemos adaptar nuestra estrategia. estamos muy centrados en la agresión de rusia contra ucrania y nos ha surgido otro problema político de gran dimensión, que es china. pero china no es rusia. china es un superpoder. un superpoder que crece, que está presente en todas partes del mundo y cuya influencia es considerable. su peso político crece y su atractivo para muchos países del sur es innegable. por ejemplo, china se ha convertido en el primer inversor en la asean. nos ha desplazado. parece como si china ya hubiera iniciado un proceso destinado a prever el impacto de posibles sanciones. está empezando a hacer de—risking (reducción del riesgo). mientras nosotros hablamos de eso, ellos ya lo están haciendo. hay que tener bien presente estas consideraciones a la hora de definir una estrategia coherente con respecto a china. pero, aunque cada vez más estemos en un ambiente de rivalidad, no hay que dejar de hablar con china. no hay que rechazar la colaboración con china en la solución de los grandes problemas globales porque china no sea una democracia. la deuda de los países emergentes —hay más de cuarenta países ahogados por un exceso de deuda— y el cambio climático, que afecta a muchos miles de millones de personas, nos obligan más que nunca a trabajar juntos. china quema más carbón que el resto del mundo junto y es el principal acreedor de los países emergentes. por lo tanto, desde el punto de vista de la deuda o del clima, no hay solución a esos problemas sin la participación y la colaboración de china. hay que seguir hablando con china por su colosal influencia en el mundo y porque el diálogo es la base de la política internacional, al menos hasta que lo inevitable ocurre, como ha hecho rusia con ucrania. china está emergiendo —ha emergido ya— y va a seguir estando ahí. en pocos años china e india van a representar casi la mitad del producto mundial. esas dos grandes masas humanas van a volver a la posición que ocupaban antes de la revolución industrial. es la repetición de la historia. pero, para que este diálogo con china tenga lugar con claridad y eficacia, tenemos que alinear nuestras posiciones. y expresarlas no con una sola voz —porque tenemos una multiplicidad de voces—, pero sí como un coro bien afinado. con muchas voces, pero procurando decir lo mismo, o, por lo menos, en la misma longitud de onda. la pluralidad no debe ser un problema mientras haya una posición consensuada, en particular sobre dos grandes temas. en primer lugar, ¿es europa un polo en la multipolaridad? ¿tiene una existencia propia como entidad política (es lo que se llama la autonomía estratégica o no de europa)? y, en segundo lugar, ¿de qué manera nos dirigimos a china por lo que respecta a la agresión de rusia a ucrania? el presidente macron fue a pekín y le dijo al presidente xi jinping que esperaba que le ayudase a hacer entrar en razón a putin. a lo mejor resulta que el presidente xi no cree que putin haya perdido la razón, sino, al contrario, que tiene razones que comparte con él y con muchos de sus visitantes, como el presidente lula, que estuvo antes de ayer en pekín y ha cultivado la misma ambigüedad estratégica que china. me gustaría repetir aquí el largo discurso que tenía preparado para el viaje a pekín frustrado por culpa de la covid, pero, como no tengo tiempo, voy a decir simplemente que nuestra estrategia con respecto a china tiene que basarse en cuatro elementos: los valores, la seguridad económica, taiwán y ucrania. primero, los valores. no tenemos la misma visión sobre los derechos humanos y el respeto a los derechos fundamentales de las personas que china. y en todos los foros internacionales y con todos los países del mundo china desarrolla una narrativa que subordina los derechos políticos fundamentales al desarrollo económico. me recuerda cuando en mi juventud discutíamos sobre las libertades reales y las libertades formales. las reales son aquellas que tienen que ver con las condiciones materiales de vida. pero no es una cosa o la otra, necesitamos las dos. necesitamos la libertad simplemente para ser libres, pero necesitamos que esta libertad política sea un poderoso motor para desarrollar el bienestar material de los ciudadanos. queremos libertades políticas y queremos progreso económico. y tenemos que defender esta visión y contrarrestar el discurso de la narrativa china por todos los medios intelectuales a nuestro alcance. pero hay que seguir en este diálogo —lo hemos vuelto a empezar, me alegro de ello—, a nivel bilateral, después de que china suspendiera el diálogo sobre derechos humanos con nosotros. segundo, relaciones económicas y seguridad económica. nuestra relación económica está terriblemente desequilibrada. nuestro déficit comercial es abismal y no deja de crecer. 400 billions de euros de déficit. y ellos con un superávit de 470. china ya no es el suministrador de bienes baratos producidos gracias a una mano de obra barata. al contrario, está en la punta del desarrollo de las tecnologías y es un competidor en aquellos bienes más sofisticados. al final, lo barato acaba resultando caro. ya lo decía mi abuela, «no compres las cosas baratas que al final acaban siendo caras». lo hemos aprendido con la energía rusa y lo estamos aprendiendo ahora en la competencia económica con china. y eso no es solo porque no seamos competitivos, sino porque en china quién manda, no es el mercado, es el estado. y eso cambia radicalmente las reglas del juego. sí, también con estados unidos tenemos problemas de reglas de juego. también con estados unidos competimos y discutimos las reglas de la competencia. pero al fin de cuentas, los dos somos economías de mercado. china es un caso distinto. nuestra relación está desequilibrada porque tenemos una dependencia de algunos productos que nos hace vulnerables. y esta vulnerabilidad aumenta porque estos productos, materias primas, están integrados en cadenas de producción y acaban en bienes finales que importamos desde china. por ello es cierto, es importante el de—risking que ha mencionado la presidenta de la comisión, que pasa por diversificar nuestras fuentes de suministro, reconfigurar las cadenas de valor, controlar las inversiones in y out, desarrollar instrumentos contra las acciones coercitivas, pero siempre con respeto a las reglas de la organización mundial del comercio. sería paradójico que pregonásemos y predicásemos el multilateralismo y luego violásemos las reglas de la institución multilateral que más ha contribuido a formar el mundo que hoy tenemos. pero permítanme advertirles de un riesgo. derriscar —es un barbarismo en castellano—, disminuir los riesgos, acarrea riesgos. porque hemos de ser conscientes que si restringimos nuestros flujos económicos y comerciales hacia otros países de asia distintos de china, lo que veremos es que casi automáticamente esos países van a aumentar sus relaciones comerciales con china para importar las materias primas que necesitan para producir los bienes que luego nos van a vender y, por lo tanto, lo que habremos hecho es poner un intermediario en nuestra dependencia; seremos indirectamente dependientes. y en esos casos puede ser incluso peor, porque esos países serán mucho más vulnerables a las presiones que pueden recibir de china de lo que lo somos nosotros ahora. en todo caso, hay que rechazar la ilusión de que para protegernos económicamente de china hay que desacoplar nuestras economías. nuestra dependencia del comercio internacional es demasiado grande, es más del doble de la que tienen los estados unidos. no ganaríamos en seguridad, nos privaríamos del contrapeso económico y otros ocuparían el vacío que dejaríamos. hay que diversificar para reducir vulnerabilidades, pero reducir vulnerabilidades, a fin de cuentas, es lo mismo que aumentar nuestra autonomía. el de-risking y la autonomía estratégica van de la mano. porque la dependencia es lo contrario de la autonomía. cuanto más autónomo sea usted, menos dependiente será, y cuanto más dependiente sea, menos autónomo será. y si la dependencia económica es mala, la política también. las alianzas funcionan cuando están equilibradas. cuando no están equilibradas y una parte es mucho más fuerte que la otra, ya no es una alianza, es otra cosa cuyo nombre no voy a pronunciar aquí. pero ser autónomo es lo contrario de ser dependiente y hay que reducir nuestros riesgos. pero eso no debe ser un eslogan, señorías, no es un eslogan, no es una frase hecha. es una política a largo plazo. tardaremos años en hacerlo, de igual manera que tardaremos años en aumentar las capacidades militares que hoy no tenemos. y el mayor riesgo geopolítico es que el de-risking con respecto a china aumente la capacidad de impacto y presión de china sobre el resto de asia. por lo tanto, es una tarea que hay que abordar juntos, todas las instituciones y todos los estados miembros de forma contumaz, pertinente, permanente y comprometida. taiwán. taiwán es fundamental para europa. por tres razones. porque es el estrecho más estratégico del mundo y en particular para nuestro comercio. tenemos que estar allí presentes a través de la libertad de navegación en los mares, a través de nuestras flotas. segundo, no solamente por una razón moral —una acción contra taiwán por fuerza ha de ser rechazada—, sino porque también sería, en términos económicos, gravísimo para nosotros, dado que taiwán tiene un papel estratégico en la producción de los más avanzados semiconductores. finalmente, si queremos ser y decimos querer ser un poder geopolítico, tenemos que estar presente en todas las partes del mundo. para reafirmar nuestras posiciones. para defender nuestros intereses. para llamar a la calma. para prevenir provocaciones, vengan de donde vengan. y por eso la mejor solución es volver al statu quo cuanto antes. taiwán es claramente parte de nuestro perímetro geoestratégico para garantizar la paz, para defender nuestros intereses sin echar leña al fuego. y estoy seguro de que todos los países europeos comparten esta posición. en ucrania nuestras posiciones son bien conocidas. nuestro mensaje a china es claro, la presidenta lo ha transmitido muy explícitamente, todos lo hemos hecho: nuestra relación con china no puede desarrollarse normalmente si china no usa su influencia en rusia para conseguir que esta retire sus tropas de ucrania y ponga fin a la guerra. frente a un conflicto que afecta a la integridad territorial y la soberanía de un estado independiente, cuyas fronteras están protegidas por el orden internacional y por los compromisos de las grandes potencias —entre ellas también rusia y china—, cualquier neutralidad que no distinga entre el agresor y el agredido es ponerse del lado del agresor. lo hemos dicho muchas veces y lo seguiremos repitiendo. y, finalmente, desde un punto de vista geopolítico. tenemos que evitar una nueva guerra fría entre el oeste y el este —ahora, el far east, el este todavía más al este—. y tenemos que prestar mucha más atención a las crecientes dificultades de muchos países en el sur. porque ver el mundo a través del triángulo estratégico china-europa-estados unidos, sería una visión reducida y reductora. porque no tendría en cuenta la existencia de las grandes masas de población en el sur, a las que china presta especial atención porque quiere construir con ellas un nuevo orden mundial distinto del que, según ellos, ha construido occidente. y lo dicen abiertamente. lo dice mi colega, el ministro de asuntos exteriores, sin ninguna clase de retención. sabemos que es así y por eso el debate sobre china no ha hecho más que empezar. lo hemos de hacer con lucidez, es decir, con realismo, sabiendo que las cosas son como son y los números son los que son. con determinación y claridad. y con más unidad que nunca, una unidad que es indispensable, aunque ciertamente no excluye que haya varias voces que hablen en nombre de europa, como hoy aquí el consejo y la comisión.
president of the commission. – mr president, minister, dear josep, honourable members, during my trip to china this month, i was fortunate to be in beijing on the day of the qingming festival, one of the most traditional chinese holidays. it is a day to honour and pay respect to past generations, and it is part of the very rich history and culture of china that certainly fascinates and captures the imagination of people all around the world. seeing this country again first hand only reinforced my deep admiration and respect for the people of china. for centuries, they have helped shape world civilisation. and in the last decades, they have really transformed the economy of their country, lifting more than 800 million people out of poverty in the last 45 years. we should never lose sight of the magnitude of this transformation into a modern-day economic powerhouse, key global player and a leader in many of the cutting-edge technologies that certainly will shape the next decades of global civilisation and progress. this international and economic status, as well as our own interests, make it all the more important for europe to manage its relations with china. and for me, that also shows that decoupling is clearly not viable, desirable or even practical for europe. but, as i said back in january and as i set out in more detail a few weeks ago, there is clearly a need for europe to work on de-risking some important and sensitive parts of our relationship. so de-risking, but not decoupling. much has been said about this since i set out the principles of this de-risking strategy and even more has been said since the last trip. in many ways that reaction is good because europe needs to have this discussion. and so, i want first and foremost, to thank parliament for putting this debate on today. it’s urgent and it’s good that we have this debate. most importantly, i say this because this relationship is too important for us not to define our own european strategy and principles for engagement with china. i believe we can and we must carve out our own distinct european approach that also leaves space for us to cooperate with other partners too. and the starting point for this is the need to have a shared and very clear-eyed picture of the risks and the opportunities in our engagement with china. and this means acknowledging, as well as clearly saying, that the chinese communist party’s actions have now caught up with its stated ambitions and the hardening of china’s overall strategic posture over the last years. for example, the shows of military force in the south china sea, in the east china sea and at the border with india, directly affect our partners and their legitimate interests. or on the issue of taiwan. the eu’s one china policy is long standing. we have consistently called for peace and stability in the taiwan strait, and we stand strongly against any unilateral change of the status quo, in particular by the use of force. we must also never shy away from talking about the deeply concerning and grave human rights violations in xinjiang. and just as china has been ramping up its military posture, it has also ramped up its policy of economic and trade coercion, as we’ve seen from lithuania to australia, and the targeting of everything from pop bands to trade brands. we have also seen these tactics directed right here in the house of european democracy. and i want to express my solidarity to those members of the european parliament who have been unfairly sanctioned by the chinese communist party just for calling out human rights violations. and all this is symptomatic for the fact that china has now turned the page on the era of reform and opening, and is moving into a new era of security and control. i heard this in beijing from many european companies who have witnessed first hand this shift towards security and away from the logic of open markets and free trade. and to strengthen that security and control leverage, china is openly pursuing a policy of reducing its dependency on the world – that’s completely okay, that’s their right – but while increasing the world’s dependency on itself. you know, the examples, for example, whether it’s on critical raw materials or the renewable energy, on emerging tech like artificial intelligence, quantum computing or biotech. honourable members, having this clear-eyed assessment of the chinese communist party’s actions and direction of travel, actually including its relations with putin’s russia and its attitude towards the war in ukraine, is a prerequisite for today’s discussion. and it will allow us to develop an approach that is tailored to our economic and national security imperatives. one that we all can rally around and one that is clearly understood in europe, in the world and, crucially, also in china itself. and this last point is one of the key reasons i felt it was important to make the trip to beijing alongside president macron. it was a chance to discuss with president xi the shared challenges that we need to work on together, whether in our bilateral trading relations or on global issues like debt relief, climate change and nuclear non-proliferation. but, equally important, the trip was necessary to ensure that we are as honest and clear in our messaging in beijing as we are in brussels or here in strasbourg. this is a core part of our efforts to de-risk through diplomacy, by reducing the space for misunderstanding and miscommunication, regardless of how difficult the conversations may be. the point i made in beijing is that we do not want to cut economic, societal, political and scientific ties. we have many strong links in china as a vital trading partner. our trade represents some eur 2.3 billion a day. most of our trade in goods and services remains mutually beneficial, but there is an urgent need to rebalance our relationship on the basis of transparency, predictability and reciprocity. what we want is china to respect the level playing field when it comes to access for our companies to the chinese market, to respect transparency about subsidies, to respect the intellectual property and, beyond this, we also know that there are some areas where trade and investment poses risks to our economic and national security. particularly in the context of china’s explicit fusion of its military and commercial sectors. and this is why the central part of our future china strategy must be economic de-risking. there are four areas for us to work on which i want very briefly to touch on. the first is taking a critical look at our own resilience and dependency and making our own economy and industry more competitive and more resilient. and this is the work we have been doing together, you know it, it began in the investment in the green and the digital through nextgenerationeu to the pillars of our industrial policy and the landmark acts, you know too, it’s the chips act, it is the critical raw materials act and it’s the net zero industry act. and leaders signed up to it in versailles during the french presidency. so now we must keep strengthening our resilience and sovereignty in key areas. you know them all, it’s energy, it’s health and pharmaceutical products, it’s food security, but also, of course, when it comes to our defence capabilities. the second point is becoming bolder and better in using our existing trade defence instruments. we have given ourselves the right tools to deal with security concerns and economic distortions. so, we must be more assertive in using them when we need them, and i want to take this opportunity to thank the parliament for its leadership in agreeing on the new anti-coercion instrument just a few weeks ago. the third element is the lead to look at where we need to work on new tools for some critical sectors. we need to ensure that our companies’ capital, their expertise, their knowledge, are not used to enhance the military and intelligence capabilities of those who also are our systemic rivals. that cannot be. so, we have to look at where there are gaps in our toolbox, which allow the leakage of emerging and sensitive technologies through investments in other countries. and this is why we are currently reflecting on if and how europe should develop an instrument on outbound investment for a very small number of, but very sensitive technologies. this will form part of a new economic security strategy, which the commission will put forward in the coming months. the fourth principle is cooperation with partners, whether on economic security or on trade, whether with partners we are close to in the g7 or with those with whom we have looser ties, but some shared interests. this will be a core part of diversification and the strengthening of the resilience of our supply chains to reduce our own vulnerabilities. honourable members, as the high representative said in 2019, the commission and the eeas collectively proposed a strategic update of our china policy. since then, the world has changed enormously. china has changed. europe has changed. and that’s why our european strategy has to adapt too. a few weeks ago when i gave my speech on china, i said, a strong european china policy relies on strong coordination between member states and eu institutions, and on the willingness to avoid divide and conquer tactics that we know we may face. we have already in the recent days and weeks seen those tactics in action. and it is now time for europe to move to action too. now is the time to demonstrate our collective will. it is time to jointly define what success looks like and to show that it is unity that makes us so strong. and in this sense, i say, long live europe.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam president of the commission, mr high commissioner, madam minister! the dealing with china is the central geopolitical issue of our decade of our century. in preparing for this, i stumbled upon a quote from napoleon, who said, "let china sleep, for when it wakes, it will shake the world". what is clear is that china is no longer asleep, china is waking up. in recent decades, china has tried to grow economically. now china is not just about economic growth, it's about political influence. china is making a massive claim to power. the world should become more chinese. it is therefore good that we are discussing this issue so prominently today. and i would like to thank our commission president in particular. ursula von der leyen has made her core messages clear and unambiguous. first, respect for china as an important country in the world. secondly, partnership where it is in the mutual interest. third: putin's joint stop on this issue is testing china. fourth, the strong partnership with our american partners, to jointly respond to china, to defend our values with the united states. so thanks to ursula von der leyen. i'm going to the hospital. from the epp point of view, the epp is pure. the second face of europe has been revealed by emmanuel macron. within hours of macron's flight back to europe, beijing launched an aggressive military exercise simulating an invasion war on taiwan with an armada of warships and ground and missile attacks on taiwanese cities. it's about preparing for a military annexation. and the taiwan issue is not an abstract problem, but it is the fate of 25 million people. it is not beijing that decides the future of taiwan, but the people of taiwan decide their future. in this military atmosphere, macron says, and i quote: 'europe must not be drawn into the conflict between taiwan and china'. i must say clearly that this statement came as a shock to me, because firstly, the high commissioner has said that taiwan is fundamental to the european economy. ninety percent of our high-quality semiconductors are made in taiwan. and taiwan stands for freedom and democracy in this region. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. it is therefore naive to say that taiwan is not our business. of course europe must act on its own. of course, europe must be confident in its own way. of course, we do not have to accept everything washington proposes without checking it. but the taiwan issue is about tangible economic interests, and it's about our values. and if we are not clear here, we are betraying european interests and european values. perhaps the french president should also ask himself who has applauded him in the last few days. it was putin, it was le pen, it was mélenchon, it was podemos, it was the afd. they have responded positively to the statements, and the rest of the western world has at least been silent. the populists wanted to fight macron and i am convinced that emmanuel macron is a convinced european who cares about the unity of europe and who is passionate about europe. but it must be said that he was unfortunately showing the opposite of god by his statement. the unity of europe has been massively damaged. macron is denying taiwan the necessary support and damaging transatlantic trust. and chancellor scholz is selling the port of hamburg or parts of it to chinese state-owned companies. i understand, when i see that many states in the european union are more likely to look to washington for protection than to paris or berlin when it comes to big issues. the european union has not been united. it should not be surprising that now washington politicians are asking whether ukraine is not also a european problem, why american taxpayers are doing so much to defend ukraine and democracy and freedom. we as the epp believe that it is our transatlantic duty to stand up for freedom and democracy. a close relationship with washington is necessary. the joint trip last week unfortunately demonstrated to the world the fragmentation of europe. ursula von der leyen stands for european values and transatlantic cooperation, and macron, against the backdrop of the russian sabre-rattling, is destroying european unity and damaging transatlantic cooperation. that is why i ask that at the next eu summit we need clarity from the heads of state and government. finally, a coherent plan for all the countries of the european union. firstly, a transatlantic partnership, and secondly, a trade union of democracies mercosur must now finally be concluded in order to make the partnership with south america binding. thirdly, european technological leadership and innovation sovereignty, especially in critical infrastructure. fourthly, a european defence pillar to complement nato. we are naked today in a world of storms. that is why europe must finally become militarily strong. and fifth and lastly, the founding fathers of the european union started with the montanunion, with cooperation in steel and coal. that is why we as a generation should complete this idea today, namely to build a resource and energy union for europe to be independent. we know what to do. the heads of state and government must finally have the courage to act. no more naivety. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transatlantic market. no more egotistical trips by our heads of state and government. yes to the common defence of the european way of life.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, humanity is facing global challenges of unprecedented magnitude, with climate energy, with pandemics, with war in europe. in this context, the diplomatic offensive of several european leaders in beijing is indispensable to prevent a further escalation in the polarization and tension affecting the world. in the debate on our relations with china, we should not enter into a logic of blocs. we need to define a position towards china based on open strategic autonomy guaranteeing secure trade and technological exchanges and a firm defence of international cooperation and multilateralism. and to do that, we need a strategy towards china that is coherent, effective, global and more united than ever. we can only build bridges between china and the european union and strengthen mutual trust if china fulfils its responsibilities as a member of the united nations security council. our relationship with china does not aspire to be one of confrontation. we want cooperation based on reciprocity, transparency and respect for international law. in the economic sphere, it means balancing the playing field and ensuring full reciprocity between the partners. it means opening up the east, not closing down the west. on the ukrainian front, china and the european union are obliged to seek solutions to end a war which is not only causing untold human tragedy but is also a direct threat to our interests and to the principles of the united nations charter. president xi, who has traditionally defended the sovereignty and territorial integrity of states and opposed the use of nuclear weapons, must act in accordance with his words and put pressure on the one who violates these principles and threatens with these weapons: putin's russia. as a permanent member of the security council, president xi should meet with zelenskiy to contribute to a peace based on the withdrawal of russian troops from ukrainian territory. let us not forget that china considers putin an indispensable partner in the search for a new international order. it is a premise which must oblige us to strengthen dialogue to reduce risks and to cooperate as far as possible, with clear red lines for europe which mark our principles. the delivery of arms to russia and a change of status quo by force in taiwan would be unacceptable to us. the absence of immediate results from the visits of several european leaders should not interrupt mr borrell's action in china. the possibilities for cooperation between us are immense: strengthening multilateralism, accelerating the fight against climate change, achieving the millennium development goals. we must also speak frankly. china and the european union must consolidate the dialogue on human rights, because human rights are universal and must be respected everywhere, including in xinjiang or hong kong. our message to china must be clear: the continuation of sanctions against members of this house will make a relationship of trust impossible. it is time for china to lift sanctions against members of the european parliament. ladies and gentlemen, our strategy towards china needs determination, realism and more european union than ever before. i would like to end this speech with a word of advice to mr weber: in your new role as leader of the opposition, you are happy to criticise all the european leaders who need to be criticised - one day macron, another day scholz. the only people he has no objections to and no criticism of are the leaders of the far right. be careful, or he'll get lost and one of these days he'll end up criticizing mrs von der leyen.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, naivety: that is the word that best characterizes the attitude i would not dare to speak of a strategy of the european union towards china for the last forty years. mercantilist naivety, which wanted to believe that the opening up of our market to all winds would give us unlimited access to the gigantic chinese market. democratic naivety, which wanted to believe that this soft trade would not gradually bring the beijing regime to liberal democracy. the narcissistic naivety of those who believed that the charm of a particular head of state or government could influence the strategic calculations of the chinese leadership. this european naivete has cost many industrialists their lives. this is the case for example of the european photovoltaic industry, which has been almost wiped out by unfair competition from china. on the other hand, our companies are increasingly barred from entering the chinese market, unless they agree to ultra-costly technology transfers. the political record is no more glorious. despite the trade and charm offensives of our leaders, the regime in beijing is sinking ever deeper, internally, into authoritarianism, and externally, into a regular offensive to federate under its umbrella the enemies of the west. it is high time for the european union to learn from this triple naivete and to see the chinese regime for what it is and not for what we would like it to become. in short, to bring our relations with china to the mature stage of realpolitik. first, europe must reduce its over-dependence on the middle kingdom in order to acquire greater economic and strategic autonomy in relation to it. it is not, of course, a question of breaking off ties with china. it will remain a trade partner and a key player in meeting the challenges of the 21st century, starting with the fight against climate change. however, the european union must strengthen its own capacities and diversify its partnerships. secondly, we can no longer turn a blind eye to the geopolitical ambitions of beijing, which, under the guise of a multipolar world, in reality wants to firmly establish chinese hegemony over the world of the twenty-first century. in this area, we will only be respected if we unanimously and unequivocally resist china's attacks on human rights and democratic values, whether within its borders (such as xinjiang or hong kong) or in the rest of the world, and if it is clear to us that only a negotiated process can solve the taiwan question, and if we put an end to the double standards that have confounded the union's international policy. in this context, i would like to stress that the participation of several member states in the illegal invasion of iraq by the united states in 2003 cost us and still costs us today a considerable amount of credit with the countries of the global south. if we want to restore the power of our words and actions, it is high time we made them coherent in space and time. this is precisely the approach advocated by the german foreign minister, annalena baerbock, during her recent visit to china. it is thus in line with the course you set, madam president, in your important speech of 30 march. you can be sure, madam president, of our group's support for your ambition to make the european union a respected and respectable geopolitical actor.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the events and the travels of the past week have confirmed two principles. the first is that the geopolitical dimension of the european union is non-existent or inconsistent, and this is a promise that was made by the commission at the beginning of 2019 and that today remains empty. the second consideration that is confirmed month after month is that the greatest sovereignist and nationalist in europe, whatever one may call him, is macron. because behind all this controversy about taiwan and taiwan's statements, one fact has gone almost unnoticed, namely that macron went to china and brought home rich contracts and rich agreements for french companies. i wonder if this is the concept of european strategic autonomy that the french president wants to promote. but there is one consideration. it is true that autonomy is an important issue for european states, but i believe that there are some areas where there can be no ambiguity and where the concept of strategic autonomy is inconsistent, and one of these is china. there can be no strategic autonomy, there are credible allies with whom we go step by step and we have to go hand in hand in global challenges and there are autocratic regimes, like russia and china, from which we have to differentiate, and there can be no third way in this. europe has to decide clearly who it stands with, and i think there is no doubt that on this issue europe must stand with its western allies, because china is the greatest geopolitical challenge facing the west today and we cannot think of facing it by trying to differentiate ourselves from allies who have common interests with us and who have shown that they hold to those important values that we talk about every day in this room at least as much as we do. that said, europe needs to figure out how to approach china, and what we're doing since 2019 is definitely not a good way. president von der leyen mentioned some of the measures that the commission has proposed, which we are working on to implement this de-risking that the high representative from china was talking about, but - if i may, mr president - these measures are not nearly enough. the chips act, the net zero industry act, the critical raw materials act are acts that will not actually allow us to detach from china, to not be dependent on china. then, the last point. i have shared many of the views expressed today by both president von der leyen and high representative borrell, but the problem is that these views are not supported by the facts, the facts are completely different. if we look at the data, the european union's dependence on china in recent years, also because of this green transition, has increased dramatically, and we really risk repeating another fundamental mistake: we are not going to be able to do that. i shall close with a question which i cannot find an answer to today, or i do find an answer and it does not satisfy me. what would happen to the european union tomorrow if china decided to invade taiwan? we have to think about that. we must think about what tools we have to avoid repeating the same mistakes that were made in the past and that we are paying for today.
mr president, madam president, high representative, dear colleagues, it is certainly true that we are obliged to pursue a selective engagement with beijing on those dossiers that are multilateral by nature, most notably the fight against climate change. but we cannot overlook those unacceptable behaviours that the chinese government refuses to leave apart. several colleagues in this room are still under sanctions. and last friday, we have seen the unbelievable arrests of human rights activists that were going to a meeting with our delegation in beijing. furthermore, the so-called military exercises near taiwan are dangerously similar to a fully-fledged invasion. and china’s neutrality regarding the russian invasion of ukraine is – quoting our high representative – simply just not credible. in diplomacy and in geopolitics, it takes two to tango. nothing more than a mere selective engagement on certain issues can be accepted before we see real and effective actions from our chinese counterparts in those fields that are not only essential to us, but universal by definition, such as human rights. let’s keep the channel for dialogue open, but without being naive, therefore protecting our strategic infrastructure and our european technological sovereignty. and let’s always speak with one single voice to defend our red lines for real.
president, mrs von der leyen, mr borrell, ladies and gentlemen, the last few weeks have not been a showcase of a strong and united europe. it's been years since kissinger asked himself: who should i call if i want to speak to europe? and now citizens - and probably the chinese too - are wondering who is speaking for europe. because just look at the visits over the last six months: the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the programme. and you, mr. borrell, would go, too. each with a specific message. instead of going to china one by one with those specific messages, we might as well figure out what our message is right now, and then go together. only then, mrs von der leyen, will europe be strong enough to stand up to china. we know very well what that message should be. we have here in this parliament adopted my report on a renewed china strategy. and you, mr borrell, were also very clear in your speech just now. i thought they were very academic, because now we have to do politics, but you were very clear about the four priorities. i think there's a consensus on the content. we will not accept chinese military support for russia. we will not accept the use of force in the taiwan strait. and we will not turn a blind eye to systematic human rights violations. but we remain open to working with china on crucial challenges, such as climate change. now we must act together and not be divided by china's divide-and-rule strategy. mr weber, you're just going to get into that! stop it, please. let's not play games. that's what china wants. we must, of course, focus on strategic autonomy. we need to get that message to china. the truth is very simple, colleagues: we can't afford the luxury of being divided over china. we have too much to lose.
mr president, president von der leyen, hr/vp borrell, for an organisation that cherishes unity in diversity as we do in the eu, it’s never easy to talk with one voice. all the more grateful we can be that we have heard strong and clear voices recently regarding the eu’s china policy. i want to start by congratulating president von der leyen for her china speech and for how she conducted her visit in china. that showed leadership. there are of course, as you have said, josep borrell, different interests, but that cannot be an excuse for divergence on the fundamentals. the focus on human rights is not an accessoire for our foreign policy; it’s at the centre and we’re not selling it for a lentil stew. we’re willing to cooperate with our systemic rival, china. but cooperation cannot be a one-way street. we have to be clear-eyed. china is a revisionist power with hegemonic ambition, aiming at building a beijing-centric global order. if they would respect the principles of the united nations, they would have called for russia to leave ukraine alone. we must work together with like-minded partners in our china policy, in particular in cooperation with the us. whoever splits that front is not serving our own values and interests. strategic autonomy à la française would be risky for europe. mutual solidarity with democracies is basic, and that includes taiwan’s democracy. in our relations with countries of the global south, we must strive to be a better partner for them than china. and we must, as has been laid out by the president, de-risk in our economic relations in order to secure our economies. there is no way back, therefore, to the win-win illusion that shaped cai. at the end, let me say we should never confuse the chinese people and the great chinese culture and their successes with the dictatorship of the totalitarian xi jinping regime.
mr president, mr borrell, the people's republic of china is a strategic rival and an adversary of europe's interests and of the way of life of the so-called free world, of which europe is a part with america - with the united states also - and which is penetrating africa, latin america, asia and europe itself every day. as you can see, in europe we are selling a large part of our infrastructure, our ports and our railway networks to china. finally, in this parliament - where so many useless things are done for which we have neither competence nor influence - something very serious was done, namely the report on a new eu-china strategy, from september 2021, which gave keys to once again separate us from this absolutely lethal dependence that had been created in these last two decades. but again, certain countries, which want to impose ideological criteria on everyone else in the european union, defend their own interests separately and, of course, still do not demand due reciprocity. and they've all been running to beijing, one after another, to defend their own interests. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. europe must not and cannot stop trading with china, but it must recover many of the relocations that have been made and prevent others, such as those planned by merkel, macron and von der leyen with xi jinping, behind the backs of the europeans... (president withdraws the floor from the speaker).
mr president, the debate on the european union's relations with china puts us in the position of having an autonomous international policy in accordance with our interests or of continuing to subordinate our international policy to organizations and structures whose decisions are based on the interests of others, if not contrary to ours. the speeches by president von der leyen or mr borrell do not invite optimism in this respect. the european union must be an independent actor in the development of an open and multipolar international order, an order with multilateral relations of mutual benefit and which recovers the objectives of the united nations charter. in this commitment to the autonomy of the european union in its international policies, it is necessary to restore normalcy in our relations with china. president xi jinping has reached out to the leaders of the european union and we must take it, because we cannot build the future of the planet without china. no one can deny that improving relations with china is beneficial for the european union and its peoples. let us not fall into the trap set by those who feel threatened by their privileges of world hegemony. let's not do their dirty work. we defend the interests of europe from our autonomy. we come out of this with the activation of the agreements with china, which are frozen by political decisions that benefit others but harm our peoples. let us recognize that the peace plan presented by china can serve, together with other plans presented, for example, by president lula or president petro, to open negotiations for peace in ukraine at once, and let us leave here placing the european union on the path of solutions and not as an active part of the problems. let's change course that leads us to a cold war situation with the world divided into blocs that are economically disconnected. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. we want dialogue, we want autonomy and, most importantly, we want peace.
mr president, commissioner, high representative, when you ask yourself whether a coherent strategy is necessary, it is either because you have no strategy or because you are not coherent. or both. any of those three is bad news, because china does have it; china has a strategy that is hegemony. as you know, go is a game that originated in china over 2,500 years ago. it is a game where two players fight to expand their own territory whenever possible, attacking the opponent's weaknesses. china has been playing go for decades, putting its pieces on the global board: first asia, then africa, then latin america and almost europe - nothing, well, little, little or insufficient. china is a global player. the question is whether we want to be a global player or whether we want to be a piece on the board. i believe that we have to be a global player, and that means taking on the responsibilities and the costs of being a global player, because if you're not a global player, you risk being a piece in a game, and the pieces in the games are sacrificed.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, thank you, commissioner, for coming here today to discuss such an important matter as storage. i would like to acknowledge that some very important things have been done during this energy crisis, such as gas storage, which has helped us to get through, albeit with some pain, the crisis we have experienced. the truth is that for the green deal to be a reality, a significant part of energy demand, especially electricity, has to move towards renewables. in 2030, the union expects them to reach 69% of electricity supply. the renewable energy installation figures are promising, but we can do more, we must go faster; these figures have to be accompanied by flexibility, both in storage and in active demand management. for example, in countries like mine, which is located on the iberian peninsula, this week, at a confluence of excellent solar and wind resources, the fall in electricity prices has been considerable, but this resource is variable and sometimes we cannot take advantage of all the renewables we have available. that's why we need to have storage. we have surplus clean electrons that are being wasted and we can't ignore it any longer. we need to invest and improve storage. this will help to better manage electricity price spikes and will also allow consumers to better manage their energy needs. however, we must not leave everything to the member states; we must make a european effort. we have the potential to increase the flexibility that is constituting, as the energy transition progresses, also through the electrification of demand. examples are batteries. better electrification in transport will also lead to better management of flexibility by consumers themselves. we also need to invest in water storage, but that also means improving the management of a resource that belongs to everyone, not just for electricity generation. water is a common good that serves much more than producing energy. so we now have the opportunity, with regulation and reform of the electricity market, to take another step on this path we have started. improving energy storage requires member states to commit, through their national energy and climate plans, to achieving sufficient targets to improve this flexibility management. i think it is time we moved towards some objectives in this respect. as rapporteur for the reform of the union's electricity market, we will work and propose measures to try to boost demand and storage flexibility. all with the aim of completing this reform before the end of this legislature. storage is crucial to moving towards a decarbonized system.
mr president, commissioner gabriel, when we designated 2021 as the european year of youth, we aimed to empower european youth by putting them at the centre, increasing their participation and listening to what they had to say. these young people have already spoken, and they have done so clearly and forcefully in forums such as the conference on the future of europe. they want stable contracts, decent wages and social protection. they want decent, affordable housing. they want better education and better mental health. they want us to assure them that no other young people will be exploited and used as cheap labour when they do an internship. i would therefore like to ask you: what is your assessment of the conclusions of the conference on the future of europe? what specific policies are you going to pursue in this regard? above all, it is no longer just a matter of listening and letting young people participate, but also of doing what they ask us to do. and, being the generation that believes in this project the most, i think we have to do it.
commissioner, first of all, i would like to say that the european year of youth has given us a great legacy, namely to have these spaces to speak and to put young people at the centre of the agenda. we have to take advantage of them. we must insist that our commitment to youth policy be lasting. as the greens/efa group, in our guidelines for the commission's budgets for 2024 we suggest linking the european year of youth to the european year of skills. we would like to know, commissioner, what initiatives you propose to ensure that there is a coherent momentum between the two european years. on the other hand, we need structural changes to the different arguments we have had here today in this debate. but we must have them in all the institutions: in the commission, in the european parliament and also in the council. we must ensure that young people are involved in all european policies and also in the evaluation of their impact. and we also need to make a cross-cutting effort to ask ourselves how we will drive these policies with young people and for young people. i leave the question open. and finally, what do we have to do to end job insecurity? to clarify a very specific point which concerns us at this age... (the president withdrew the floor)
member of the commission. i think i have already answered all three questions. mental health: communication planned for june 2023. youth: key factor as for the automatic recognition of diplomas, i know how much you care about it and i do too. let me give you a few examples. in february 2023, we published a report that outlines the situation in the member states following the 2018 council recommendation. we are currently preparing conclusions with the swedish presidency, which i hope will be adopted in may. of course, as the commission, we are not going to stop there. for me, the recognition of qualifications is a fundamental element of the european education area. if we are to achieve this by 2025, this is an issue on which member states must now redouble their efforts. we have recognised in the report that progress has been made, but more needs to be done. so you see that this is a question which also remains central for us. as for the third question on youth participation, i said: for the first time, one of the novelties of the erasmus+ programme is that we are funding activities of our youth at local, regional and national level. it is to show that our young people are active in democratic life, that our young people are active citizens. we have had a special budget for this purpose for the first time in the new erasmus+ programme. i am waiting to find out from the analysis of the implementation of the programme whether this is an area of interest, so that i can continue it in the coming years.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it's nice of you to be involved in meetings with young people, to visit them in schools. i do this myself often and i know that young people are very positive about europe, that they want to come to our institutions to do an internship, that they are interested in the european union. of course, this is very easy if they want to study in other eu countries, if they do not already have a family. i wonder what advice you would give to young families, young people who have started a family at an early age and also want to complete their education abroad, which of course comes with high costs, with the interruption of work, with moving abroad. what program is best suited for such cases, for young families?
member of the commission. i just want to say that i really need to know. i'm not sure that young families can participate, but what's important to me is that you're raising a case that deserves to be looked at. i would like to say that by the end of the year, there are already plans to propose a new framework for learning mobility, to tackle the barriers and obstacles that remain. because today, when we look at it, less than 15% of young people have participated in mobility activities in the european union. not because they don't want to, but because they still face obstacles and challenges. and that's what we want to deal with this year. so, i think we'll obviously, at that point, do a sit-down of the different scenarios. and i really hope that we're going to be able to provide more facilities.
mr. chairman, thank you for the floor. i would like to thank you, commissioner, for your commitment and understanding of the european youth year and also for the discussion today, for your replies. i believe that the participation of young people who have been involved in the regions, but also here in the different events, has shown that young people are interested, know what they want, and are able to get involved, participate and organise an event. we have experience with the european youth week in brussels. we have experience with the claim the future final conference. there's a lot of young people here, too. young people are just interested, i'm not afraid, just open the door for them. i would like to take this opportunity to ask you how cooperation with the swedish presidency is going and whether you are planning a similar event, which i believe was a success, involving the commission, the council and the european parliament, because we organised the final debate together with the young people. this is very important. thank you, and i look forward to working with you.
member of the commission. mrs šojdrová, i would like to reiterate my thanks and congratulations for the closing conference, because i think it was indeed one of the highlights of the year. i don't see it as a closing event, i see it as an event that young people have taken as an opportunity to put their voices to work and to be able to really argue how much their ideas are there because they reflect reality. now, yes, i confirm that the swedish presidency will be organising a day dedicated to mainstreaming and integration of youth policies. i think it will indeed be an opportunity to make the transition to the legacy of the european youth year, because this event will also allow us to address the issues we have discussed today, ranging from the youth test to inclusiveness or the need to be able to reach young people who are not yet fully aware of the different possibilities and opportunities. in any case, the swedish presidency clearly states its desire to build on the european year of youth. of course, we see this as an opportunity to prepare better the communication on the european year of youth and its legacy. today's debate has shown how important this is.
i would like to thank all the speakers and the commissioner for her replies at this important part-session on youth and the future of europe. we are at the end of question time.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission, the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on the situation in peru (2023/2599 (rsp)).
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, it seems that peru is less attractive than china, or at least there are fewer people in the chamber than at the end of the debate on china this morning. and yet, what is happening in peru is extraordinarily important and serious. but before i go into the matter, let me once again express our sympathy and support for all those affected by cyclone yaku and its devastating effects. ladies and gentlemen, i'm not going to explain to you what you already know. peru is a friend of europe. he's one of our partners in latin america. it was the first latin american country i visited as a high representative. then president castillo had just been elected. it is a country that is going through a serious social and political crisis, the last chapter of which we have just seen. but if you look at it in perspective, what we really have is a serious structural crisis of governance. a deep and lasting crisis, with a deterioration of institutions that has been worsening and is leading to a real crisis of political representation. let's recap how we got here. on 7 december, the peruvian congress appointed a new president, mrs boluarte. earlier, president castillo had tried to dissolve congress illegally and, after his failure in that attempt, was arrested for trying to establish an exceptional government and call elections to a constituent congress, hours before a motion of censure was held against him. we in the european union, regretting what has happened, immediately recognised the legitimacy of the new president and stressed that full respect for the constitution, the rule of law, democratic principles and the separation of powers were crucial for peru to regain a path of political stability. we have begun a direct dialogue with the authorities and have expressed, through several public statements, our support for dialogue between all the political forces and communities concerned as a sine qua non condition for achieving the alleviation of political tensions and responding to the needs and aspirations of the peruvian citizens. however, as was unfortunately to be expected, shortly after the president took office, several demonstrations broke out in various parts of the country, in which violent clashes with the security forces resulted in a dramatic death toll of over 60 and more than 1 300 injured, some of whom were seriously disabled. we mourn these deaths. we condemn acts of violence, but also the disproportionate use of force by those who have the monopoly of force and the mission of ensuring the safety of citizens. i personally conveyed this to the foreign minister, mrs gervasi, during our last meeting in the dominican republic, and told her that it was essential that the investigations under way should clarify who and how used firearms and used disproportionate force, and that they should be held accountable for their actions before the courts. in this connection, we consider the recent visit to peru by the inter-american court of human rights to observe the human rights situation in the country to be a very important step. we hope that the final recommendations of this mission will help to clarify what happened. we hope that their reports will be published soon, that they will be thoroughly examined and taken into account to avoid similar situations being repeated. the european union will certainly do everything possible to support peru in this respect. ladies and gentlemen, we can support this, but it is the peruvians themselves who must find a solution to the social and political crisis in their country. advancing the elections to this year, which has been one of the main demands during the protests, would undoubtedly have served to ease tensions and begin to restore confidence in democratic institutions. and, in fact, after a moment of initial hesitation, president boluarte finally declared herself in favour of organising these early elections and shortening her term of office accordingly. but she can't dissolve congress. it has to be congress that dissolves itself, and it doesn't seem to want to do that. or at least, until now, he hasn't wanted to. and here's the situation: it's locked down. first, it must be recognised that elections are not the wonderful, miraculous solution to all problems, but it seems to be a necessary condition for improved governance and social cohesion through agreed longer-term measures. because what this crisis has shown is the very low level of trust of peruvian society in its political leaders and in the capacity of its institutions to represent the citizens and to respond to a pluralism that peruvian society has through the only mechanism we know in democracy, which is dialogue, compromise and negotiation. we support the ombudsman's office, the peruvian electoral bodies, human rights defenders, local journalism and independent media, wherever they exist. we are trying to promote the political participation of a population which has historically been largely excluded on ethnic grounds, and we are also contributing to the promotion of human rights. but, i insist, it is peruvian society that has to find a way out of this crisis, a democratic and representative crisis. and if that demand is not heard, if reforms are not made, if action is not taken, the link between political representatives and society will be permanently broken. therefore, it is time to avoid tactical short-termism in power games, to think about the future of the peruvian people. what we hope is that peruvian democracy will be able to respond to the demands of society. secondly, we also know the temptation to resort to violence or to replace politics with order and force. we know that will never be a solution, but it can be a temptation. thirdly, it is necessary - more than necessary, it is urgent - to create the conditions for a constructive and inclusive dialogue, as we like to say, between the government, the political actors, civil society and the communities concerned. because the demands of peruvian society are neither unique nor homogeneous. throughout the peruvian territory there is diversity and marked territorial particularities. the coast is not the same as the mountain range. it's not the same city as the amazon jungle, which is also there. it is a country large enough and diverse enough to have many well-marked territorial particularities. the first thing to do is to listen and to talk to these communities. and we are fully committed to supporting efforts in this direction. i would not like my words to be empty words that are easy to say here in strasbourg, but to represent genuine commitment. i know how difficult it is for this political instability in peru not to be of today, nor of yesterday, nor of the day before yesterday. because if you look at the number of peruvian presidents and how the last - i think seven - have finished their terms, it is clear that this is an institutional crisis that is chronicled, as in so many other places, unfortunately. peru is not the only country with such problems. but we do not care about peru; we care about the peruvians, we care about their people, we care about the country, and i am sure that all the members who are participating in this debate today share my sentiments. i'm listening to your thoughts.
on behalf of the ppe group mr. president, vice president, it's a pleasure to have you here. he said a lot of things - and we have to focus on a very short time, so let's do it - which i, personally, agree with very much. it is well known that the european union has a fundamental relationship with peru. we are their third trading partner, and last year two agreements were signed with the aim of improving bilateral relations. we in parliament, like many other institutions, are following with great concern the serious political and social destabilization that has been taking place in the country for months. violence in the streets, as is well known, has been extraordinary since last december when then-president pedro castillo was deposed after his self-inflicted coup. in recent months, dozens have been killed and many more injured. it is also clear that the authorities are having difficulty managing a very complex political crisis. all this is having a very negative effect, consequently, on the welfare of the peruvians, to begin with, and also on their economy. the rule of law guarantees the expression of all kinds of protests, except violent ones. the government is therefore obliged to maintain constitutional order and to combat violence in a proportionate manner. on 20 march, the members of the andean delegation had the opportunity to hear one of the officials of the peruvian embassy to the european union, who deeply regretted all the human losses that have occurred during these months and underlined the commitment of the government of dina boluarte to carry out an investigation to clarify what happened. in circumstances such as the present, it is undoubtedly desirable that the peruvian political forces agree to an early election.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, peru needs stability to consolidate democracy, social justice and economic progress which place it among the most solid countries in the region. the constitutional solution to the crisis of the castillo government must be strengthened through dialogue and based on the legitimacy provided by transparency. that was the road map that was supported from the union. a response based on these values, following the riots that ended with the death of more than sixty people due to the disproportionate use of force, must be the basis for further de-escalating the protests. some measures, such as the removal of eight generals from the national police, the constitution of a special team of prosecutors to investigate these facts with quechuaparlantes or the creation of a commission to attend to the victims are steps in the right direction. they must be upheld by urging national institutions to investigate impartially and bring to justice all those responsible for human rights abuses or violations. this will increase the legitimacy of the institutions currently in place, in which talks are being held which should lead to future elections. in that path, social justice, guaranteeing basic rights such as freedom of expression and demonstration or eradicating any discrimination, such as that felt by indigenous communities, are part of the recipe. a fundamental work that requires the outlawing of violence and the excessive use of force, including lethal force, which requires recognizing the value of diversity and entering into a sincere and open dialogue so that the growth and progress that maintains the peruvian economy build a more just and more cohesive society.
i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. but this latest crisis, following the arrest of president castillo for his intention to dissolve congress, unleashed an uncontrolled repression by the government with an unacceptable price in human lives: 67 dead, according to the ombudsman, 49 of them from the excessive use of force by security forces who, according to amnesty international, used lethal weapons indiscriminately. acts of violent repression, arbitrary arrests, extrajudicial executions and the disappearance of demonstrators cannot go unpunished. we hope that the independence of the authorities will be respected to allow for an independent, diligent, thorough and transparent investigation to clarify the facts, bring to justice those responsible and make reparations to the victims. we call on the transitional government to put an end to the criminalisation of peaceful social protest and to guarantee this right; to put an end to the climate of harassment of human rights defenders and journalists who are also victims of constant harassment by certain groups; to promote a dialogue with all the sectors that have been the protagonists of the protests, a dialogue that must, in fact, be supported by the european union; a dialogue crucial to finding a consensual solution to the crisis. the protesters are not only demanding the restitution of president castillo, who, by the way, some never forgave that a humble rural teacher won an election. they also call for the improvement of living conditions, the end of enormous inequalities, the end of entrenched racism in part of society and the end of discrimination against indigenous peoples. we also call for a fair trial to be guaranteed for the deposed president and finally we call on the peruvian authorities to ensure that fair, free and transparent general elections are held as soon as possible, under international observation.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, peru has suffered a lot in recent years and especially in recent months. but its democracy has won a great battle against totalitarianism, with a democratic muscle and strong institutions like no other country in the subcontinent. its communist president, pedro castillo, elected in a dubious election, launched a coup last december. he wanted to accelerate the path towards a narco-communist regime under the sao paulo forum and the puebla group, the alliance of the communist movement and the drug trade, like the regimes in venezuela, nicaragua and cuba that fed it and those that are being gestated in colombia, in chile, in argentina and in brazil. but the institutions of peru reacted and stopped the coup. narco-communism organized in the streets a brutal foreign interference - with unusual letters from neighboring presidents - subversive and violent. the dead there were wanted by the subversion, not by the government it opposed. but for now, democratic peru has defeated the totalitarian forces. democracies must help strengthen this democratic peru and its institutions, and not the communist regimes that harass it, and that have taken a huge setback by not being able to take it to their camp, which is what it was about. for the rest, mr borrell, look at your spoiled lula, that much-praised lula, now the great ally of russia and china, the enemy of the west, the one who is going to protect all subversion in that subcontinent. and see if we learn a little bit from all of it. let's see if we learn a little bit from all of this and we're confirming everything.
mr president, peru, as we have heard from so many speakers tonight, is a key partner for the european union, and we want to deepen and strengthen our close and long-standing relations with this country on the basis of the memorandum of understanding that was signed in october last year. all of us are very concerned by the social unrest and the political instability that peru has been going through since december. i deplore at least 67 killed people and more than 1 300 injured in clashes with law enforcement forces since the beginning of the protests. it is essential to end the violence and to investigate any possible violations of human rights. in this highly polarised and unstable context, only a constructive dialogue between the government and all political actors, including the participation of civil society and affected communities, can, in the end, pave the way to a swift political solution that preserves the constitutional order, the rule of law and human rights. regaining trust in the democratic institutions is important to ease the current tensions. therefore, i ask you, dear high representative, to continue the eu’s full, committed support to the peruvian efforts in this regard. as part of the eu election observation mission to peru in 2020, i observed first-hand the electoral system, which has delivered free and fair elections for over 20 years. we as the european union stand ready to support the democratic system also in the future.
mr president, high representative, peru is experiencing a serious institutional political crisis, especially since december 2022, but for the last five years it has not been possible to channel the governance of the country. since 2022, the country has experienced huge demonstrations that have left 60 dead and 1,200 injured. that is why i think it is worth sending a number of messages from here, from the european parliament, today. first, respect for the country's institutions and democracy. there are no shortcuts, and any attempt to break the constitutional order as this country has experienced is reprehensible. secondly, the claim of the legitimate right to peaceful protest in the country, which has been violated during the last months, and the claim of ongoing national and international investigations to find out what happened to these 60 dead, because there are indications of a disproportionate use of force by the public order. thirdly, in the face of this blockade which is leaving serious wounds in the country, new elections are necessary, as the president has defended, which are being blocked today by the peruvian congress. it is true that new elections in the country are not a magic wand, but it is difficult to imagine an inclusive exit and the recovery of confidence by the citizens of peru without the holding of elections in this friendly and ally country.
mr. president, mr. high representative, from the door of the newspaper la crónica santiago, look at tacna avenue, without love: cars, uneven and discolored buildings, skeletons of luminous notices floating in the fog, the grey noon. and he wonders, "when did peru go to hell?" well, this was written by vargas llosa at the beginning of conversation in the cathedral, in the year 1969. more than fifty years later, the question still hangs in the air: when did peru go to shit? in fact, this is a country in which eight of its last ten former presidents are in prison, pursued by justice or pending extradition. then the problem is a political problem. and in the face of this political problem, the question is what can we do. the european union immediately stepped up to guarantee and support peruvian democracy and its institutions. and this was done immediately and it gave a signal of what we have to do, which is to accompany the peruvians in a process of consolidating their democracy. we must accompany them, because peru is an ally and friend, and we care about allies and friends. the legitimate use of social protest must be guaranteed, institutions must be urged to investigate abuses, but above all, we must reduce tension and contribute to an inclusive political dialogue that will provide a way out of the crisis. that crisis may have a way out that is elections, but that has to be said by the peruvian congress because we have to respect their decisions. to what end? to be able to contribute to the reforms that the country needs so that, in a few years, we can ask ourselves, unlike zavalita, "when did peru get fixed?"
mr president, sisters and brothers of peru who are fighting for democracy, our solidarity from the european parliament. we are very concerned about the human rights situation in peru in the light of reports of violent repression, arbitrary killings and detentions, torture and disappearance of protesters, attacks on the rights of the indigenous aymara and quechua population, historically excluded, as mr borrell has said, and harassment of journalists and human rights defenders. the peruvian ombudsman's office reports that 68 people have been killed and thousands injured so far. according to the national coordinator for human rights, the police and the armed forces have directly used force, causing many murders. peruvian civil society organizations, indigenous organizations and human rights defenders who monitor abuses during this crisis have faced harassment and attacks from extremist groups linked to the far right. the authoritarian attitude of the government in recent months is increasingly endangering democracy. we express our concern about the regressive legislative offensive, such as the decisions of the constitutional court that favour the congress and affect the balance of power, and, by calling for new elections, we call for an independent trial and for independent investigations into all that has happened and also with guarantees, of the deposed president pedro castillo, and we ask the delegation of the european union in peru to make field visits to the provinces most affected by the repression, to maintain a dialogue with civil society and to continue publicly supporting dialogue and the end of violence.
mr president, it has taken 133 days and more than 70 deaths for this parliament to address the grave political and human crisis in peru. months of mass mobilizations, strikes, protests and popular demonstrations demanding elections to an illegitimate government, without popular support and entrenched in power on the basis of violence and repression. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. a shameful participation of those who forget the importance of democracy and human rights where their economic and commercial interests are safeguarded. there's still time to rectify. let us send a clear message from here today: we fully support the demand for the resignation of the usurping president, dina boluarte, which is the only way for elections to be called. we also want to call for constituent elections so that the peruvian people, by exercising democracy, can build a future of progress and equality. let us support the peruvian people to regain sovereignty over their resources and institutions after too many years of dispossession and plunder.
mr president, mr high representative, democracy is based on two fundamental pillars: respect for the law and the social contract of the citizens, that is, their constitution. without a well-respected constitution, there can be no democracy. in peru, during this process to which we are referring today, respect for it has been permanent. on the contrary, former president castillo maneuvered to try to violate it and reverse the constitutional issue. and it is curious that those who supported this rape are the ones who today lead the wild demonstrations that have plunged this country into a spiral of violence. we strongly condemn this scourge and i call on the public authorities to act proportionately and respect citizens' rights. i call on your judicial authorities to work to fairly compensate all victims. our obligation is to show our full support and backing for the constitutional process taking place in peru, which must culminate in an electoral event as soon as possible and elect legitimate authorities who can lead the country back to a path of peace, prosperity and dignity. i thank you for your words and i congratulate you, mr. high representative. however, i ask you, mr borrell, that you and europe take an active position in supporting this process, as the international commission on human rights is doing.
mr president, 70 people killed, 1 300 injured by police repression, 1 800 charged and more than 600 arrested for protesting; persecution of opposition leaders, social leaders, farmers, a former president elected by the ballot box imprisoned without any legal guarantee. this is the balance of terror and this is the balance of the regime, to date, of dina boluarte. and we say it loud and clear: no government that is sustained on the basis of violence can be called democratic. today, from the european parliament, we send our solidarity to the peruvian people who are calling for the advance of the elections and the constitutional referendum. spain has suspended arms supplies to peru, something which must be extended to the rest of europe to stop the intolerable repression. do you want to deepen relations with latin america? they start by listening to the popular cry and defending the fundamental rights of their citizens. europe must demand an end to the violence against the peruvian people and support their aspirations for democracy.
mr president, mr high representative, it is clear that we are very concerned about the situation in peru. as mr borrell has rightly said, it is an important and serious feeling. we hope that stability and social peace will return so that the country can continue to make progress in its development and in the fight against poverty and inequalities. it is necessary that all actors respect the country's institutional structure and the separation of powers, and it is also important that the institutions respect human rights, the right to peaceful demonstration and the important role of peruvian civil society and indigenous organizations. and to get back to balance, the first step, not the only one, is that free and fair elections are essential as soon as possible. that is how they will regain the legitimacy that peruvian institutions need. we in europe will continue to support peru in resolving this situation so that the country can move forward.
mr president, mr borrell, i will not dwell on the obvious, which has already been said: the condemnation of the coup d'état, the disproportionate treatment of the protests or the possibility of moving on to elections. there are other aspects i want to address. the citizens who protest are not less citizens or have less rights because they come from the rural world, from areas with a majority indigenous population or because they come from poorer areas. beware of that possible simplistic manichaeism. this anger is very significant in political terms because it represents the abandonment by the urban capitalist logics of a sector of the population that is tired of not feeling represented in the ruling elites. obviously, there is a bad constitutional design that will have to be corrected, but perhaps, in the expectation of a reform process that does not have to be constitutional, we must fine-tune political practice and not abuse the mechanisms that have led to a permanent governmental instability that now becomes simply ungovernability for the country. mr borrell, we must build consensus and practical support from here to restructure the police in depth, to create a professionalised administration and to reform the judiciary, in order to develop, if possible, a common sense and a country project that also includes the rural and indigenous population.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, i often wonder where the line is between the racist immigration policies of the union and the racist immigration policies of meloni. i don't know if you've ever thought about that. because when it is normalized to make multi-million dollar deals with dictatorships in exchange for controlling migration flows; when it is approved to build concertina walls and to set up refugee camps that are detention centers; when it is criminalized to ngos that save lives and frontex is used to illegally expel human beings or to finance centers where people are tortured and trafficked in libya; when it is celebrated to open the borders to the plundering of resources of the global south while beating and leaving those who have been plundered to die at sea, that line is profoundly blurred. take charge of your decisions. their immigration policies are the breeding ground for the new far right. the meloni emergency decree is a racist decree which is another step on a path which the european institutions started years ago. in the end, it is still an advance on what is intended to be approved with the new pact on migration and asylum. we on the left will continue to insist that another migration policy is possible, with rights, cooperation, solidarity and a future for our territories and our neighbourhoods. there are resources for that. we just need the will to do it.
mr president, commissioner, more than 500 people have lost their lives in the mediterranean sea, driven by mafias who, according to europol, have one of the most lucrative and secure businesses of our time. profitable because they charge each illegal immigrant 3,000 euros to put them in a boat that can barely sail with the promise that they are going to a social welfare paradise; and safe because they have the collaboration of some governments, european institutions, ngos and media groups willing to turn this drama into a political opportunity. every time they talk about banning expulsions, they encourage the operations of ngos; every time they talk about social aid, they are making the journey more attractive and they are making themselves responsible for the deaths in the mediterranean. this is not solidarity, it is the encouragement of slavery and the decomposition of europe. true solidarity is to support governments like italy, which are doing their job, defending our borders and fighting the mafias. declare an emergency in an emergency situation? to put an end to the fraudulent asylum applications of those who seek special protection after having entered the european territory illegally? increase penalties against migrant smugglers, new slave owners and all their accomplices? distinguish between the refugee fleeing war and political or religious persecution and the economic immigrant? to prosecute the crime of facilitating illegal immigration in all areas? intensify deportations of illegal immigrants to their home countries? it is our moral duty, rather than our political duty, to do everything possible to prevent deaths in the mediterranean. and the only way is to attack the business model of the mafias and all their accomplices making the trip less attractive. anything less is complicity in slavery.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, thank you to commissioner hahn for joining us in this debate. it is a debate which is undoubtedly coming at a very opportune time. why would you do that? because just in the last few weeks there has been the parliamentary visit to which president skyttedal referred, and for which i also thank her, and also the meeting of the eu-iraq cooperation council between the high representative and vice-president, josep borrell, and the iraqi foreign minister. it is true that the satisfaction - i have to say this in my own name - is not complete, because it would have been desirable if this debate had not been limited to an exchange of views between members of parliament and the commission, but had also been accompanied by a resolution; let us not forget that the last resolution of this parliament on iraq was in 2018. it has rained a lot since then in iraq and europe. and we are also on the 20th anniversary of the us intervention in iraq. that said, let us use the time we have to establish some positions, at least as members and as groups. iraq is a country trying to move forward in its democratic transition, in a turbulent region that has suffered from the lack of freedoms and the scourge of the islamic state. it is certainly an imperfect democracy, but it is one of the few examples we have in the region and we must therefore give it all the support we can. in this connection, i believe that a test of our joint cooperation should be the establishment, still pending, of the joint interparliamentary committee between this parliament and the iraqi parliament, on which we are working from the delegation. i also do not want to miss the opportunity to address the commission because we believe - from what we are told - that commissioner urpilainen is not a big fan of maintaining financial support for the unesco initiative 'reviving the spirit of mosul'. you may not know that right now, but perhaps you can ask him after the debate. we, the members of the parliamentary delegation, have had the opportunity to learn about this initiative and we firmly believe that it is necessary to recover a jewel of the world heritage and to give hope to the people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr javi lópez, who is also a member of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats, for this excellent report, and also the other rapporteurs who have collaborated on behalf of the various groups. because this parliament's position really comes at a very opportune time, because we must relaunch, we must ensure that before the end of 2025 this rapid reaction force or capability is already operational, available. it is one of the main commitments of the strategic compass put forward by the high representative josep borrell, and one of the elements which, in my view, justifies the mandate of this commission in the field of security and defence. the report properly raises the question of the general staff and headquarters, which must be established to make this rapid reaction force effective. and in this respect we have two possibilities: the first, to make an exercise in creating, say, a new floor plan for this headquarters and general staff. the second, and i put it to the vote, is to try to make the euro-body a community body, which, as you know, is based in strasbourg and is a capacity that is already available, although not at community level. that is why i say that perhaps through pesco we could make it a community, so that we do not have to create a new plant.
madam president, commissioner, a europe which wants to be a global player needs a common defence policy. and a common defence policy needs common defence military units. this would seem very obvious, but it must be said. we must say it here in parliament: we need permanent military units that are operational and can be deployed quickly wherever the european union needs them and decides to deploy them. and for that, we have to have these military units. i liked the name battle groups, and this capability would be, at its core, a rapid deployment battle group. what do you need? a little more specific. i think it is a very good idea, but we must develop it because it is obvious that it needs to go a little further in the approaches. i do not think that the commission is going to be able to do anything about this. i think we need to move forward on the terminological definition, the nature of the crises in which it would participate, the level of commitment of the states - how far would that level of commitment go - the financial mechanisms and the operational scenarios. why would you do that? because for availability and operability to be effective, we need to answer these questions. because we need that unity; we need it urgently. it has to be defined and it has to be assumed. in conclusion, deterrence is about the credibility of the threat and the response, but one thing: when you design a tool, you have to be willing to use it.
mr president, in the matter of demanding responsibility for russia's war of aggression against ukraine, considerable effort has already been made as regards the legal basis for criminal prosecution. evidence collection and custody is already underway at the international criminal court in the hague for this case of the deported children and for other parallel cases. but this criminal prosecution must be accompanied by a medium-term perspective: the proper reparation of damages, including personal, not just physical, damage. that is why i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to a project of our neighbouring organisation, the council of europe. he's going to create a damage register in a month's time to claim reparations from russia. financed by contributions from the member states, many of our own, and i think the european union should join in, will collect in an office in the hague and in another office in kiev the declarations of damage suffered by citizens that the ukrainian institutions consider appropriate. and i repeat, the project includes not only physical damage or property damage, but also personal damage. and this must include, of course, the cases of children who must be returned, of course, and whose families must be compensated by the state responsible for so much brutality.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is a good thing that the commission has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the fact is that the two major factions in this house are in deep trouble. the social democrats have the authorities marching in, arresting, so to speak, representatives more or less from the plenary. cash is found at home in plastic bags and confiscated. the other major group, the european people's party, is being investigated by the european public prosecutor's office for this procurement of vaccines against corona. i'll get back to you on that. in debates like this one, it would be good to practice something like self-reflection and not to smoke ourselves in a way that is already sliding into the humorous. whenever there were big decisions to be made, whenever the right path was to be sought and wanted, you took the wrong turn. it started in 2016, when the british said, "thank you, we've had enough, goodbye, we're leaving". they should have responded by shifting more powers to the member states, not scolding the british for saying they were leaving, but by treating them with respect and dignity. you missed that. they also failed to make the right decisions in the 2015 migration crisis, which continues to this day. it is not only labour market problems, not only social problems, not only cultural problems that have reached this continent. we have also - because we are commemorating it today - left a lot of terror and crime on the continent. i would like to remind you of brussels, the capital of europe, where the airport was blown up, killing over 30 people, here in strasbourg, at the christmas market a few years ago, when there was an islamist attack, or - because we are in france - paris and the bataclan theatre. don't you remember? the commission has already made a number of proposals. corona: you buried all the rules of a free europe and pursued a policy where lockdowns were used to cause bankruptcy and psychological problems and maneuvered the entire continent into a problematic situation here completely unnecessary as we know today. there are many other examples where you have taken the wrong turn in the ukraine-russia issue, instead of wishing for peace, you have fuelled the war. i'm saying you didn't get much. we have insects in our food now. bravo to this european union ... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, dear mr bettel, you told in your speech about the rule of law in the european union. but do you agree that the rule of law toolbox, recently introduced, is not working? by my opinion, just the disappearance of the resolutions of rule of law in spain, malta and greece in this plenary is approval of this fact. we commemorate today the uprising in the warsaw ghetto. my grandparents were thrown into the riga ghetto – i am from latvia – and then killed. therefore, for me, a problem of big concern is the growing number of political prisoners in the baltic states. in my statelet, the series of trials of 14 journalists started last week. they are accused of violating eu sanctions and facing up to four years in prison. in neighbouring lithuania, another journalist, is imprisoned for six years. the same happens in estonia ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, dear prime minister, commissioner, first, let me thank you and congratulate you for reinforcing the tradition of luxembourg, commissioners, presidents of commission and prime ministers in fighting for rule of law, for human rights, for the rights of minorities. because i remember that, even against the first steps of wrongdoing of orbán, viviane reding was always with the red alarm, and not by chance, juncker was not voted by orbán as president of the commission. and so this is luxembourg always giving the example and you keep this tradition and reinforce it. then let me say as a portuguese, that we experienced the european union before we were members because of the experience of our citizens in luxembourg. they were so well received, that this was the true european spirit. and then let me put a political question, because at some time, at some moment, you said that peace could be obtained in ukraine if there was a meeting between xi jinping and biden. and i have to say that i am quite sceptical about this statement and i would like to know how do you envisage a peace process when you try to design this new formulation? because i see with president lula now what he is saying and these are not good news for us and not good news for brazilian external policy. so i would like your comment on this.
madam president, mr prime minister, i vividly remember our time together in luxembourg politics, sometimes in the same coalition, sometimes separated by political power relations, but always united in the ambition to improve people's lives. thank you for being with us today. i am proud that luxembourg, a founding member, has always supported an ambitious european project and acted as a driving force for european integration, despite its small size. mr prime minister, solidarity, the rule of law and our core values are more important than ever in a changing world. i count on you to continue to defend these principles in europe and elsewhere, as you have always done. the ukrainian people deserve our full solidarity in their struggle against the russian aggressor and in defending our values. it is essential, as you have said, to preserve european unity on this issue. solidarity also requires a determined struggle against social inequalities. the deepening of europe's social dimension, as citizens demanded at the conference on the future of europe, is crucial. and the conference was a great exercise, where we let thousands of citizens speak. european solidarity must also be shown in taxation matters. while i welcome the considerable reforms implemented over the last decade in luxembourg and within the eu, i hope that these efforts will be continued. we must also extend our solidarity to those fleeing war and persecution. my group, the socialists and democrats, welcomes the fact that luxembourg is continuing to defend a humane position in a debate which is becoming increasingly hostile in the council. it is of paramount importance, as you have stressed, to reach an agreement on the migration pact before the european elections. mr prime minister, the european union has ambitious objectives, whether in the fight against climate change, digitalisation or defence. to do this, it must renew itself, adapt its operating rules, its economic and social governance, redefine the framework for its budgetary resources and, if necessary, amend the treaties. i hope that luxembourg will once again be ready to support and promote ambitious approaches in the european interest.
madam president, allow me to begin by quoting our friend philippe lamberts, who addressed a warm 'gudde moien' to you and your team, mr prime minister. one can wonder about the added value of a small country in a world where everything seems to be reduced to a balance of power: china and the usa, countries of aggression against oppressed countries, authoritarian regimes against liberal democracies... well, the added value of a small state is its refusal to accept a world in which the number of gunshots, the capacity for disinformation or its means of intimidation are the main factors. let us be clear: a country is not necessarily virtuous because it is smaller, far from it! a country is not necessarily exemplary because it does not have the means to crush others. but a small country can be useful, or even very useful, because it is able to recognize at an early stage the existential threats posed by small, medium and large powers. the prime minister of a small state therefore knows what he is talking about when he tries to convince the others (who are all, so to speak, bigger than he) of the indispensable nature of european integration. like its fellow citizens, it feels the need to unite, cooperate, pool the efforts of the 27 and, above all, alert its partners to the consequences of non-action, of non-europe. so is european integration the answer? no, it's the answer to all those worries. you want proof? well, robert schuman, the foreign minister of a great country, spent his first 20 years in the country that is mine, that is xavier's, that is that of his predecessors jean-claude juncker, jacques santer, gaston thorn and pierre werner. do you think it is a coincidence that we have all seen them or that we see them all behaving in the same way, favouring justice over force in all circumstances, the friction with the harsh realities of a world where only the balance of power seems to matter? it seems to me appropriate to remind those who are great within the european union that there are even greater ones outside it.
madam president, commissioner, dear prime minister, dear xavier, it is always a pleasure to see you in the european parliament. historically and still today, luxembourg is at the heart of the european project, and we must honour our role as one of the three european capitals. in our union of 27, even a small country like ours has a place in the negotiations and can make a difference. i am of course proud of the luxembourg government's commitment to nuclear energy, which, we agree, is neither green, safe nor renewable. so, thank you for your support of our minister of energy, mr. claude turmes, and the taxonomy complaint. so let's talk about finance: as one of the largest financial markets in europe, we have a special responsibility to implement the ecological transition and promote social justice also beyond the union. i would therefore like luxembourg to play a pioneering role in the area of the duty of vigilance of undertakings. will luxembourg finally support the inclusion of the financial sector in this directive? the directive is precisely the opportunity for luxembourg to clearly position itself as a leader in truly sustainable finance, respectful of human rights and environmental law.
mr president, mr bettel, you are the president of a country which was a founder of the european community. why betray the constitutional treaty? europe is its nations; it is the economic and social progress of the member states, not a power hijacked by elites in the service of a globalist agenda. europe is a space of freedom, not a swamp of self-proclaimed vulnerable groups who want to impose their particular dictatorship on the majority of europeans. europe is a safe space, not a place where borders are stormed and stormers are applauded. europe is the pursuit of constant improvement in living and working conditions, balanced trade, fair competition and sustainable economic development, and not the adoption of rules that cripple the growth of our companies and prevent them from competing on equal terms under the climate excuse. europe is solidarity between european nations and not criminalizing hungary, poland and italy while they pour european money into morocco so that their products can illegally invade our supermarkets. europe is respect for the united nations charter, for life, for the family and for the dignity of all men. europe is a freedom of thought and not a culture of cancellation. it is a cross in every village, from cape north to ceuta and melilla.
madam president, from what we are hearing in the debate, i think it is clear that this european union chemical safety act must be corrected. the european commission promised to reform it, but its reform is being postponed despite the urgency of the situation. in addition, a more ambitious plan was promised to clean up our environment of toxic chemicals and so far we have not seen any progress, ladies and gentlemen of the commission. to make matters worse, even the plan to ban several so-called indestructible chemicals, which are linked to a wide range of diseases, remains frozen. in other words, the commission's record is quite deficient in this respect. we have an obligation to complete the european green deal and we are not going to do it that way. chemical pollution is a very serious problem with serious health consequences. i therefore take this opportunity to ask the commission to honour its promise of an ecological transition and to come forward with its legislative proposals as a matter of urgency, because public health, the environment, must always come first.
madam president, madam commissioner, i am very pleased that this debate is taking place today, because it is a very important debate. the digital euro proposal would undoubtedly improve the efficiency of payments by reducing transaction costs and times. it would also strengthen the international role of the euro by allowing the union to diversify its international foreign exchange reserves and reduce its dependence on the us dollar. in short, it would bring us one step closer to our goals of digitisation and strengthening the european union's position in the global economy. however, in this final design phase of this proposal, we must bear in mind that the digital euro should not be presented, under any scenario, as an instrument for creating value deposits at the european central bank and that it should be a means of payment that competes on equal terms with existing ones. otherwise, the creation of the digital euro would have a negative impact on the financing of the economy and the stability of the european banking system. in this respect, it is important to recall that commercial banks are the fundamental link of the monetary policy of the union and that their essential role as financial intermediaries should not be undermined by the introduction of the digital euro. in this way, the european financial system will be able to continue to function efficiently in support of the real economy. in conclusion, i urge the commission to set out in its proposal the safeguards necessary for the future digital euro to fulfil its purpose of improving the lives of european citizens, while preserving financial stability and the integrity of the european banking system.
madam chairman, i didn't understand a lot of the examples of when a drunk customer pukes in a cab, but maybe there are cases like that, i don't know. but what i do know is that between 2000 and 2015, a lot of people were recommending diesel cars, and people in europe were buying diesel cars because they were advertised as greener, as more fuel efficient and as more efficient. but now it turns out that that wasn't quite the case, and this year it's not that far back, and people are wondering if there's some kind of lobbying, if there's something that drives halls like this and politicians who make decisions to push them in 10 or 15 years to change the fleet and the way they work, and the way they actually earn their income, working and using their cars. it seems that the european parliament and the european commission are actually working lobbyists, working for some lobbying firms. it will be interesting to hear in a few years how damaging the electricity campaign that is being talked about now was.
ladies and gentlemen, as the former vice-chair of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of automobile emissions, i see the outcome of dieselgate in the european union as a big loss for all. our industry lost, lost the market position it had gained in the united states. our consumers, who were not even remotely compensated as those overseas, lost, and the european institutions lost, because they simply did not learn. what was the main reason for the whole scandal? the fact is that the legally mandated emissions reduction targets have become disconnected from what is physically, economically and socially feasible. when i look at the end of the approved sale of new cars with combustion engines combined with the newly proposed euro 7 standard, i can only conclude that history will simply repeat itself. if the new euro 7 contains requirements that cannot be measured with the best sensors available today, what will happen? colleagues, the diseselgate case was not an isolated failure of our manufacturers, but the culmination of a long series of bad policy decisions. if the goals accepted do not respect what is realistically possible and socially acceptable, then it is clear that those who are supposed to implement them are bypassing and ignoring them. we're still going through with this.
madam president, commissioner, i was a member of the committee of inquiry which in 2017 concluded that the discrepancies between the nitrogen oxide emissions of diesel cars during laboratory tests and under real driving conditions were real. the dieselgate scandal had a very negative impact on the reputation of the european automobile industry, as well as on the damage caused to the environment and consumers, which was compensated differently in different markets. the report of the committee of inquiry was also very clear in its recommendations to ensure better legislation, independent testing and better supervision of cars in circulation. it's been over six years. against this backdrop, the european vision for the future of the automotive industry has been increasingly focused on electrification and decarbonisation. the transition must ensure the competitiveness of the industry, but also the environmental sustainability of the solutions. the gradual weakening of the rules provided for in the euro 7 package is not a positive sign. to fail once is regrettable. repeating the mistake is unacceptable. as we saw in 2017, there are immediate savings that only carry forward brutal costs and impacts that leave negative footprints that are impossible to erase.
mr president, commissioner, the important thing about the diesel case is not the late judgment of the court of justice, but what you did after the scandal of 'accelerating the insane climate agenda by forcing electrification', because europe, the world leader in clean combustion engines, loses the position that its companies had been gaining for decades. but what do you owe the chinese communist party? when you decided to ban combustion engines a few weeks ago, you knew, as i did, that chinese imports had grown by 160% in 2021, that europe in five years has lost 31% of the market, and that 20% has been gained by china. but i pushed the right button; you pushed the green button. the green button is an enemy of european businesses and workers. they have managed with a stroke that europe loses all competitive advantage in the combustion engine, while china can continue to pollute without restraint. ford has announced the layoffs of 1,100 workers in valencia. in spain, two million jobs are at risk. you are guilty, and the only way out is to reverse your delusion. in spain we have an expression: "if you can't fight a bull, why bother?" so if you don't know, leave it.
eight years after the outbreak of the dieselgate scandal, the international council on clean transport (icct) report has found that more than 40% of cars on the road in europe still have 'extreme' levels of nitrous oxide (nox) emissions. the report findings show a widespread presence of manipulation devices declared illegal by the ecj, estimated at 16 million vehicles. this is a matter of concern for the health of european citizens, especially in urban areas. more efforts are needed to ensure compliance with existing legislation and to ensure that vehicles on european roads are free from tampering devices. looking ahead, the commission's proposal to establish the new euro 7 standards, currently being discussed by both co-legislators, proposes introducing more comprehensive assessment methods. the transition to electric vehicles will also be a decisive step in reducing air pollution from cars and vans.
eight years after the outbreak of the dieselgate scandal, the international council on clean transport (icct) report has found that more than 40% of cars on the road in europe still have 'extreme' levels of nitrous oxide (nox) emissions. the report findings show a widespread presence of manipulation devices declared illegal by the ecj, estimated at 16 million vehicles. this is a matter of concern for the health of european citizens, especially in urban areas. more efforts are needed to ensure compliance with existing legislation and to ensure that vehicles on european roads are free from tampering devices. looking ahead, the commission's proposal to establish the new euro 7 standards, currently being discussed by both co-legislators, proposes introducing more comprehensive assessment methods. the transition to electric vehicles will also be a decisive step in reducing air pollution from cars and vans.
madam president, commissioner, as the high representative, mr borrell, has said, health is no longer a matter for pharmacists and doctors alone, it is also a geopolitical problem. the pandemic has put global health at the top of the multilateral political agenda. it has highlighted the serious inequalities in vaccine distribution and the need for more effective disease surveillance worldwide and much stronger international cooperation mechanisms. so the strategy we are discussing today must change the rules so that the european union can be a leader in global health and act with much more determination. the threats of the future may be chemical or biological, or they may be silent pandemics such as antimicrobial resistance, and to prevent and combat them we must act with a global approach, that of the 'one health' concept. we also need a stronger european presence in the governance structures of a much stronger and more effective world health organization. and finally, we need resources: if we want a truly transformative global strategy, we will have to explore innovative financial instruments in partnership with the european investment bank or the european bank for reconstruction and development.
madam president, commissioner, the european partnership is a multilateral partnership based on shared values. it is also a humanist partnership in the sense that it is centred on the freedom of people to make choices and options within the framework of the rule of law. and it is on these grounds that we do not hesitate to defend ukraine's sovereignty uncompromisingly, and to condemn the russian invasion outright, without this leading to a path of self-closure or selfish protectionism. this strategy is an example of that. health knows no boundaries. the european union strategy for global health is a strong response to protect the citizens of the union, while sustainably promoting the capacity of other regions of the world, our partners, to protect their own citizens and build their own prevention and response capacities. this multi-stakeholder approach entails the sharing of an ecosystem combining health policies and capacities, skills, new funding models and the use of sustainable development and inclusive digitalisation tools. the dream of better health for a changing world is possible. it is also urgent and it is in our hands to make it happen.
mr president, commissioner, the first lesson of the pandemic is that protecting health must be a priority. are we aware that deaths from antimicrobial resistance will double by 2030? are we aware that we're facing a silent pandemic in mental health? do you know what happened in the cyber attack that hit one of the big hospitals in barcelona last month? more than 300 interventions, 11 000 consultations and 4 000 analyses were suspended. so are we aware of what a massive cyber attack on our hospitals in europe would mean? all these challenges, threats and attacks do not understand borders. we must therefore build a strong european health union, to create a shield against these threats and attacks. europe must lead, coordinate and harmonise health policies with the member states. europe has the opportunity to lead the world in health promotion and disease prevention with the best researchers and health professionals; to be committed to innovation and research for the best treatments in rare diseases, cancer and neurodegenerative diseases. we need a competitive pharmaceutical industry and we need to share the european health data space so that we are no longer exclusively dependent on third countries and have the best national health systems for our european patients.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear colleagues, i am extremely saddened and abhorred by the sentencing of vladimir kara—murza, whom i know as a brave and principled man. his crimes? exposing the kremlin’s kleptocracy, speaking out against a cruel war and fighting for a free russia. it is no coincidence that the same regime that wages aggression against its neighbours and steals from its people also jails those who speak out against these crimes. that’s why we must continue to speak out for vladimir and other political prisoners and hold those responsible to account. one day vladimir will be free, russia will be free. in vladimir’s own words ‘i also know that the day will come when the darkness over our country will evaporate. when black will be called black and white will be called white.’ thank you, vladimir, for bringing light to darkness. we stand by you.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, it is fantastic here in this debate to hear described the courage of these two men – vladimir kara—murza and alexei navalny. i think they have enormous courage to go back to their country, to russia, to fight for a free and democratic russia after they have been poisoned by putin –both of them. i have to tell you that i would not have this courage, very honestly, to return in such circumstances. but the question is, are we courageous here in these two cases? i have to tell you, president, that we have sent with a number of colleagues, already on 6 april, a letter to the commission, to mr borrell, asking for magnitsky sanctions the fastest as possible in the case of vladimir kara—murza. that’s from 6 april. the americans have already two months ago taken magnitsky sanctions in that case – and we are still waiting. so what i ask, mr commissioner, is that the commission and mr borrell come forward, with the council, with the foreign affairs ministers, with magnitsky sanctions in the case of vladimir kara-murza, in the case of mr navalny and in the case of all these political prisoners, the fastest as possible. i ask, we will ask – and we will have a majority in this parliament – that the point is again on the agenda in may or in june. we expect then that these packages will be announced in the coming weeks. otherwise, in my case in any way, i will cancel my trust in the european leadership of today.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, i am very pleased to be in full agreement with mr verhofstadt today. once again russia is doomed to have its best sons in prison and its worst bandits in the palaces of power. once again the russians are condemned to having all their rights as people ignored. once again, the russians are doomed to die at the whim of a tyrant. again, as in 1937, the russians who tell the truth disappear from their homes. the sick people who are now in the dungeons are not mandelshtam, babel, solyenitsin or sakharov, but vladimir kara-murza and alexei navalny. they are again the heroes, the best of russia. it is not german nazis or ukrainians who threaten, abuse, imprison and kill russians; it is another tyrant. history will condemn it and admire the heroes, but we have to take action. in this respect, we have the eu magnitsky act, which can be applied immediately to very specific people.
madam president, i would like to express my full support for this resolution, as does the spanish socialist workers' party. of course, we are again calling for the release of both navalny and kara-murza and the rest of the opposition. but i have to tell you, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, that i have no real hope that this will happen. that is why i think it is most important that we sanction, as several colleagues have already requested, all those involved in the trial of both navalny and kara-murza and the other opponents. that means that we are sanctioning, as the united states and canada have already done, the judges who have handed down these sentences, the prosecutors and the police commanders who have ordered the arrests of, as i say, navalny, kara-murza and all political opponents in russia.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, my little nephew was born two years ago. yesterday he had a pretty bad day because he had a cough but, in general, he’s a really happy and lively child. when he’s going to be my age, 35, and that is going to be in 2056, the risk is high that he will find himself in a world that has become hostile to humans: increasing floods, droughts, forest fires, conflicts over resources, devastated lands, infertile soils, millions and millions of people having to flee. in 2056, our planet may be on the path of no return for humanity or it may not. when you read the ipcc report, yes, there is much reason to panic. but there is also reason for hope – because it shows that we can make a difference, that we can still turn this around. the world that my nephew will live in will be shaped by the decisions that we take today. everybody in this plenary is in a position of power, and i am convinced that everybody in this plenary loves someone who was born in the last 10 years. we have to use this power. we have to use the trust that was put in us and give a future not only for ourselves but also for the generations to come. and if i may, i think, when we speak about this this topic in a more abstract way, we have a lot of unity. the disunity comes when we speak about concrete actions, but at the end of the day, it is not abstract debates about climate change that are going to change the world, but concrete actions, so let us take concrete actions, colleagues.
mr. president, let's read the ipcc report and we'll find that our inconsistency is monumental, that any effort made today to combat global warming will be more effective than if it were made tomorrow. the same effort, if it's done a year from now, will have less impact than if it's done now. if we do it in five years, there will be less profit than if we do it in two years. that's how nature works, that's how the scientists in the ipcc report confirm it. so why do we delay our decisions? to extend the negotiations? more than 30 years have been lost in international negotiations with little or no result, which have led to useless polemics and above all to inertia. thirty years of accumulating emissions, and as a result, the opportunities to reduce the most negative consequences of climate change are much smaller today than they were yesterday. in my country, catalonia, it has not rained enough for 25 months, and we are no exception in europe. we need to do more and do it faster. we're wasting time.
mr. chairman, please. we have received yet another very alarming report from the ipcc, which highlights the catastrophic consequences of extreme weather events. natural and human systems are being pushed beyond their capacity to adapt, and the report reports impacts so profound that it is already too late to reverse them. and that only underscores the need for faster action to reduce our emissions and, not least, to increase our energy efficiency. we can and must do something about it, and at a faster rate than we have been able to do so far. it is good that we in this house this week have been able to adopt key parts of the fit for 55 package. but we all have a responsibility to keep up the pace for the rest of this term, because there is much we can do to increase the pace. these results can and should be used to inspire countries outside europe to create momentum. there's a climate summit in november. we need those results, and we need the high ambitions and more commitment from the fact that time is actually running out on us.
mr president, we are discussing here the sixth assessment report by the ipcc, putting in all our knowledge of climate science together. and i think what is most interesting is, of course, the progress that you see in science, because the messages of climate science have become clearer, harder and more urgent every time you see such a report. just a couple of points that they have been making very clear. at this moment, we already see a warming up to the level of 1.1 degrees. we are reaching the limit of 1.5 already very soon. we see that climate impacts are regarded as being more severe than the previous assessment report. so the impacts of climate change have been underestimated before. but what we also see is that the current climate plans of the world are likely exceeding the 1.5 degrees, so the world is not on track and not doing enough. and also very important is that 80% of our budget has already been emitted by the world in order to have a 50% chance to stay below 1.5 degrees. that’s the urgency and that’s the very clear message by science. but what is very important as well, and that’s what quite often we forget in this house: what can we do about it? because then, when we get concrete, suddenly everyone is kind of, ‘ok, now we have to slow down because we need a balanced approach’. i think that’s in the kind of bible of the commission, the balanced approach. but also here the ipcc is very clear: you need deep, rapid and sustained mitigation actions in this decade to reduce projected loss and damages, and delayed action would raise the risk of stranded assets and cost escalation. so please, people, also the commission, step up. rapid action is needed and also delivers the cost benefits for our health and society.
mr president, all the forces which base their political project on purely socialist engineering have to justify their policy with terrible threats of imminent catastrophes, ever more imminent and ever greater. that's what the ipcc and its scientists do. it was also scientists who said that mrs von der leyen's pfizer vaccines were as safe and effective, and they were neither. it is logical that they are now demanding of the european nations, of all europeans who are not part of those elites who meet in their private jets in davos, to give up their freedom and their well-being, their habits, their rights and their property, supposedly to save the planet. the promise of paradise of the bolshevik revolution, of social justice and of things that no one believes in this century is no longer valid. but there are all the parties - from the epp group to the far left and the greens/efa group, let there be no redundancy - which, since the consensus, are now using the end of the world to force everyone to do what they would refuse to do under normal conditions. the whole report speaks to us of the need for europeans to renounce growth and to assume impoverishment for all but a few. because the average temperature of the last twenty years is one degree higher than the average between 1850 and 1900. the fact is that the immense sacrifices which they urgently demand of europeans will make them poorer, but will not make the world a bit safer. this is an ideological project to demand the total submission of the population by a total cut in their rights and their quality of life.
mr president, commissioner, thank you for this debate. in a passage from el quijote it says "things you will see, friend sancho". and it is true, because we are here to fight against the effects of climate change, but, ladies and gentlemen - i look to the left of the house and to the centre of the house - we are also here to fight against the deniers, who are a prior problem and we are seeing it here, in this house. because if at 1.1 degrees above pre-industrial levels we are as we are with the phenomena we suffer, imagine yourself at 1.5 degrees. and this still has to be explained to the far right and to a part of the right of this house. i think we already know the conclusion of this debate, and we have it, because society has it, especially young people, and science has it. we must act and we must act urgently. in particular, commissioner, we must complete the european green deal. there is still work to be done, not only on combating climate change - the package of measures - but also on protecting nature and species. because the climate crisis is important, but the crisis of nature and the disappearance of species, too. let us act and never tire of fighting the deniers.
mr. president, the only way we're going to have a habitable world is if we act now. and we are very late, as the report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change of the united nations says, and the report of the copernicus programme, which points to alarming changes in the european climate. even today, in a context of rising global temperatures, severe droughts, torrential rains and fires, there are people who insist on denying climate change. and they do it - let's not kid ourselves - so they can keep taking a cut by voraciously polluting what is everyone's. an example of this is the government of the junta of andalusia, which, with the extreme right-wing terraplanista-climatic and its allies of the popular party in this house, is squandering the largest nature reserve in all of europe: the doñana national park. the same applies to the mar menor in murcia or the attempt to destroy the royal canal in aragon. in this parliament they defend pollution, waste of water or continue to burn oil, coal and gas as if nothing had happened. the first step in a just ecological transition is to protect our natural spaces and invest so that this transition leaves no one behind. if you care so much about life, defend it and stop saying absurdities in the service of the most polluting lobbies.
mr president, commissioner, at the last davos forum world leaders warned of climate change and demanded that everyone make an effort to improve the situation. most of them went to the meeting on private jets. the same thing happened at the madrid, glasgow and egypt climate summits. you want to lecture on climate science, but you don't care about the environmental impact when you sign free trade agreements with third countries that fill supermarkets with products transported on polluting ships across the oceans. i'll just ask the questions our compatriots out there are asking. is the computer model used in this report the same one that was used in 1982 to announce the great devastation of the year 2000 or is it the one that famous scientist al gore used in 2006? why don't they send a delegation to beijing and tell all this to xi jinping, who opens two coal-fired power plants a week? how many europeans will have to go into economic ruin or unemployment before you will recognize the failure of your suicidal policy? the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left behind. let's let the genius of man innovate, grow and adapt. that's what a man does. the fanatic sits still, waiting for the end of the world. but the end of the world will come when god wants it to, not when your excel spreadsheet says it will.
in writing. the report reveals that humans are already responsible for an average warming of 1.1°c and that this warming is already causing harmful effects on human well-being, particularly on the most vulnerable. using current policies as a benchmark, the ipcc estimates that we will cross the 1.5c barrier this century, reaching 3.2c by 2100. we would be in breach of the paris agreement and that would have catastrophic consequences. spanish citizens are already suffering the consequences of climate change, it's a tangible problem. heatwaves, droughts and wildfires are intensifying, affecting our health and economy. fighting climate change now is the only way to protect our well-being in the decades ahead. the package of measures target 55 responds with legislative measures to the ipcc's call for immediate action. after setting the decarbonisation targets for 2030, work begins on the 2040 targets. at international level, there is an urgent need for non-binding commitments by third countries to be translated into legislative measures and for a decisive agreement at the next cop28 climate summit.
in writing. the report reveals that humans are already responsible for an average warming of 1.1°c and that this warming is already causing harmful effects on human well-being, particularly on the most vulnerable. using current policies as a benchmark, the ipcc estimates that we will cross the 1.5c barrier this century, reaching 3.2c by 2100. we would be in breach of the paris agreement and that would have catastrophic consequences. spanish citizens are already suffering the consequences of climate change, it's a tangible problem. heatwaves, droughts and wildfires are intensifying, affecting our health and economy. fighting climate change now is the only way to protect our well-being in the decades ahead. the package of measures target 55 responds with legislative measures to the ipcc's call for immediate action. after setting the decarbonisation targets for 2030, work begins on the 2040 targets. at international level, there is an urgent need for non-binding commitments by third countries to be translated into legislative measures and for a decisive agreement at the next cop28 climate summit.
in writing. the report reveals that humans are already responsible for an average warming of 1.1°c and that this warming is already causing harmful effects on human well-being, particularly on the most vulnerable. using current policies as a benchmark, the ipcc estimates that we will cross the 1.5c barrier this century, reaching 3.2c by 2100. we would be in breach of the paris agreement and that would have catastrophic consequences. spanish citizens are already suffering the consequences of climate change, it's a tangible problem. heatwaves, droughts and wildfires are intensifying, affecting our health and economy. fighting climate change now is the only way to protect our well-being in the decades ahead. the package of measures target 55 responds with legislative measures to the ipcc's call for immediate action. after setting the decarbonisation targets for 2030, work begins on the 2040 targets. at international level, there is an urgent need for non-binding commitments by third countries to be translated into legislative measures and for a decisive agreement at the next cop28 climate summit.
in writing. the report reveals that humans are already responsible for an average warming of 1.1°c and that this warming is already causing harmful effects on human well-being, particularly on the most vulnerable. using current policies as a benchmark, the ipcc estimates that we will cross the 1.5c barrier this century, reaching 3.2c by 2100. we would be in breach of the paris agreement and that would have catastrophic consequences. spanish citizens are already suffering the consequences of climate change, it's a tangible problem. heatwaves, droughts and wildfires are intensifying, affecting our health and economy. fighting climate change now is the only way to protect our well-being in the decades ahead. the package of measures target 55 responds with legislative measures to the ipcc's call for immediate action. after setting the decarbonisation targets for 2030, work begins on the 2040 targets. at international level, there is an urgent need for non-binding commitments by third countries to be translated into legislative measures and for a decisive agreement at the next cop28 climate summit.
in writing. the report reveals that humans are already responsible for an average warming of 1.1°c and that this warming is already causing harmful effects on human well-being, particularly on the most vulnerable. using current policies as a benchmark, the ipcc estimates that we will cross the 1.5c barrier this century, reaching 3.2c by 2100. we would be in breach of the paris agreement and that would have catastrophic consequences. spanish citizens are already suffering the consequences of climate change, it's a tangible problem. heatwaves, droughts and wildfires are intensifying, affecting our health and economy. fighting climate change now is the only way to protect our well-being in the decades ahead. the package of measures target 55 responds with legislative measures to the ipcc's call for immediate action. after setting the decarbonisation targets for 2030, work begins on the 2040 targets. at international level, there is an urgent need for non-binding commitments by third countries to be translated into legislative measures and for a decisive agreement at the next cop28 climate summit.
in writing. the report reveals that humans are already responsible for an average warming of 1.1°c and that this warming is already causing harmful effects on human well-being, particularly on the most vulnerable. using current policies as a benchmark, the ipcc estimates that we will cross the 1.5c barrier this century, reaching 3.2c by 2100. we would be in breach of the paris agreement and that would have catastrophic consequences. spanish citizens are already suffering the consequences of climate change, it's a tangible problem. heatwaves, droughts and wildfires are intensifying, affecting our health and economy. fighting climate change now is the only way to protect our well-being in the decades ahead. the package of measures target 55 responds with legislative measures to the ipcc's call for immediate action. after setting the decarbonisation targets for 2030, work begins on the 2040 targets. at international level, there is an urgent need for non-binding commitments by third countries to be translated into legislative measures and for a decisive agreement at the next cop28 climate summit.
in writing. the report reveals that humans are already responsible for an average warming of 1.1°c and that this warming is already causing harmful effects on human well-being, particularly on the most vulnerable. using current policies as a benchmark, the ipcc estimates that we will cross the 1.5c barrier this century, reaching 3.2c by 2100. we would be in breach of the paris agreement and that would have catastrophic consequences. spanish citizens are already suffering the consequences of climate change, it's a tangible problem. heatwaves, droughts and wildfires are intensifying, affecting our health and economy. fighting climate change now is the only way to protect our well-being in the decades ahead. the package of measures target 55 responds with legislative measures to the ipcc's call for immediate action. after setting the decarbonisation targets for 2030, work begins on the 2040 targets. at international level, there is an urgent need for non-binding commitments by third countries to be translated into legislative measures and for a decisive agreement at the next cop28 climate summit.
madam president, commissioner, in recent years the european union has been hit by one crisis after another and i believe that we have shown flexibility and have been able to stand by those who need it most. therefore, in the face of this new energy and inflation crisis, flexibility in the temporary framework for state aid measures is very necessary. but we must go a step further and take into account social and territorial cohesion in this review. what we are asking for in future de minimis rules is that there should be special ceilings for the less developed regions, depopulated, rural, transitional and outermost areas, as well as islands. if i refer to my country, i think of the canary islands, but also of the balearic islands. all these structurally disadvantaged areas need specific measures to cope with the crisis and attract businesses and talent. so they need specific thresholds. the aim is, in short, to avoid a europe with citizens of the first and second class.
madam president, commissioner, rules such as the de minimis regulation are necessary to preserve the internal market. limiting the aid a government can give to its enterprises should help to avoid unequal competition between member states. but when we look at the effect of this de minimis regulation on the island economies of the union, we see a paradox: the limits set do not allow states to help island companies to compensate for the extra cost of insularity. the additional cost of insularity is very simple to understand: an island-based company can only transport its goods by sea or air, which represents an additional cost of around 70% compared to road or rail transport. therefore, eu island companies have to compete within the internal market at a comparative disadvantage and the de minimis regulation does not allow states to remedy this by means of state aid. this is a dysfunction of the internal market. all companies compete on equal terms except those based on an island; the result is a widespread increase in the price of products, a loss of competitiveness of our companies and the deindustrialization of island economies. we europeans living on the islands are demanding, as recognised in the european parliament's resolution of 7 june 2022, that the union should be able to compete on equal terms. that is why we are calling for more flexibility in the de minimis regulation so that the states can compensate for these extra costs of insularity with state aid. we are not asking for a privilege, but for the correction of an inequality.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the rules and the amounts of state aid must not distort competition or undermine cohesion. and that is why i am in favour of a european solution for the capitalisation of companies and why i have insisted that investeu can provide that european solution for the capitalisation of our companies. on the other hand, the rules and state aid must take account of the specific features of our territory. and so the outermost regions, rural and less developed regions should be able to have flexibility in the same state aid rules. competitiveness cannot be the enemy of cohesion. it is essential that we have at the same time competitiveness that leads to convergence, without ever forgetting cohesion on the one hand and sustainability on the other. and it is in this sense that we call on the commission to ensure that in its proposals it cannot think in one way and treat differently what is different. it is not a question of exceptional aid, it is a question of justice and of our being able to treat those who need it most in a fairer way and in a way that is more consistent with the objectives of the european union.
madam president, commissioner, mr omarjee, the request is very timely in this parliament. i shall concentrate on the island territories, which suffer from serious and permanent disadvantages recognised in the treaty of the european union itself. in addition to the island territories, there are many more vulnerable territories, but i shall concentrate on the first ones. i'm from the balearic islands. one of the main disadvantages is the impossibility of using land transport. neither rail nor road: to access all goods and services, air and sea transport must always be used. and this, of course, reduces our competitiveness. we cannot therefore participate on an equal footing with the mainland territories. we have much more spending on importing and exporting products, and on energy, education, health and a long list of other things. all this has led to a deindustrialization of our sectors. many economic sectors disappear and in the end only tourism remains. in 2008, we had 700 industrial textile companies; in 2020, we have 330. we therefore need to seize the opportunity of amending this de minimis regulation to do justice and to remove the general threshold for all regions and create a specific threshold for islands, so that the rules can be adapted to their circumstances, justice is done and cohesion - which is an essential element of europe to eliminate these disparities - is real. so that there is really economic, territorial and social cohesion, and justice is done.
a uachtaráin, without doubt, cohesion policy is a great success story for the european union, where countries express solidarity for another, where the rich help the poor and poorer countries become rich. my own country, like many other countries who joined the european union, has benefited from that. but i think that the classification of regions, particularly within smaller countries, is too big. in my country, for instance, i belong to the southern region and it is classed as a more developed region, which is true, but it is not a homogeneous region. there are sub—regions within it where we have depopulation, where we have no industrial development and porous infrastructure. i am thinking of the likes of west clare, south kerry, south west cork, and i think the commission should look at reclassifying regions so that smaller areas that are disadvantaged can benefit from cohesion, structural and state aid, so that they can come up to the general average.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have today discussed a very clear question, commissioner, on state aid and the de minimis scheme. i was surprised that you came and told us directly that the commission had no intention of changing the de minimis rules, but you could now see that everyone, regardless of political group, was calling for these state aids and de minimis rules to be granted in line with the specific situations, with the more remote regions, the poorer regions, the less developed states, because otherwise we will not achieve cohesion, the disparities will increase. i'll give you one example, commissioner: the commission is now, and has been for years, giving different subsidies to farmers, different major subsidies; at the top, higher subsidies to more developed countries and lower subsidies to less developed countries. how can we then achieve a single market, a single internal market, with the same possibilities? how do we get to social cohesion? that is why i want you to answer us directly, commissioner, after today's debate, are you going to change the rules?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to participate in the debate on the future of the european union.
member of the commission. – madam president, i think we had a very important debate and i’m very grateful in the name of the commission for this occasion to debate one of the very important european policies. this is cohesion policy, and it was mentioned by many of you. there is a broad agreement that cohesion policy remains an essential policy, precisely to give all the regions in the european union good opportunities. unfortunately, we are not from the same starting point. many regions have handicaps for geographical or other reasons, and that’s why cohesion policy is the other side of the coin of the internal market. this was conceived when… under… i think it was mainly jacques delors who conceived the cohesion policy. this was the approach: there is the internal market, but there is also the corrective arm, and this is the cohesion policy. i’m very grateful that has been has been supported very clearly also in this debate, because this is also the glue which keeps us together in spite of all the differences – that’s the european solidarity. now, the question is: what are the best tools? here, i heard many messages, very important messages, and the point is there are some differences also. how can we do best for all regions, all european regions to have the best opportunities economically, socially, job opportunities? how can we keep people in these regions? because this is very important also, i would say, for political, for demographic, but even in some way, for strategic reasons, to keep people in these outermost regions. now, i’ve taken the case of the fishermen. well, i’ve checked it. there is one case, but it is not depending on state aid. it is maybe… there is another issue about the fish policy or policy in this area. but we, i, will continue to look at this. i think it is a very important element and what you have said. well, there are some divergences also, which i have heard, because the fact is that member states are not equal when we are talking about state aid. there are those who can give a lot of state aid and those who have less capacity to give state aid, so that’s also an issue we cannot just put aside. now, as i have already said, the de minimis regulation is under review, and i think your remarks, your contribution, should at least be taken on board during this review. now, i want just to recall some basic elements which are, i think, very important. first, regional aid and especially linked to investment aid – regional aid rules allow member states now to support investments in disadvantaged areas so the most disadvantaged areas can get support from state aid. the most disadvantaged areas are automatically qualified as ‘a’-areas depending on the objective criteria (low level of gdp compared to eu average), and outermost regions are automatically considered as ‘a’-areas. for instance, smes can receive aid in outermost regions that covers more than 75% of the investment cost specially linked to smes, and we all know that the economic structures in these areas are mainly based on smes. ‘c’—areas can be selected by each member state and approved by the commission on the basis of criteria listed in the regional aid guidelines. regional aid rules also allow for operating aid, as i have seen, and here also outermost regions can have specific regimes on operating aid.
this conversation is over. the sitting will be suspended for a moment and will be resumed at 12 noon with a vote. (the sitting was suspended at 11.55 a.m.)
the epp group has notified me of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees and delegations. these decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and take effect on the date of this announcement. *****
madam president, i would like to make a point of order just to draw attention to the very serious situation in sudan, which is getting worse. we have volunteers, we have organisations on the ground, also from our european countries, i think also from italy. organisations like music for peace and aics that are on the ground and are there to help need europe's attention to stop the violence. sudan is the gateway to europe; we need to keep the focus high, we need to have a commitment from ourselves and also from the european commission and the high representative. i wanted to say this here because the situation is getting worse these days and it needs all our attention and all our commitment.
thank you, benefi.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, i thank you because i am requesting from you just a short minute of your attention. i'm sorry to do it, but i have to, because in the exercise their rights, two political groups have challenged the vote that was adopted in the committee of liberties, justice and home affairs of the files of which the new migration and asylum pact consists of five regulations, including the regulation on which i am rapporteur, the crisis regulation. we had a clear, solid, sound mandate for entering the interinstitutional negotiations in each and every one of the files, including this, the crisis regulation. we have worked real hard throughout the years and i thank, of course, the shadows and all of the other rapporteurs, because we have worked hand-in-hand to secure the so-called ‘package’ approach, which was essential. now it is time for it to enter into institutional negotiations so that solidarity may have a chance. solidarity when it comes to emergency crisis situations, that’s precisely the point of this regulation. that is why i just kindly request that you support the mandate for negotiations by voting in favour of this regulation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as the rapporteur has said, we are here to have the house vote on this matter, because the whole asylum and immigration system cannot be changed behind the backs of the citizens. it's a question of democracy and accountability; i don't know if that sounds familiar. we want these organising mandates to be voted on with the council so that people can know who is in favour of ending the model of human trafficking mafias in the mediterranean, who is in favour of open borders 'but does not want to bear the consequences', who wants orderly immigration taking into account the labour needs of the member states, who we promote to attract talent, and who promotes to attract chaos. the european parliament's proposal for a regulation on crisis and force majeure situations in the field of migration and asylum is intended to hand the keys to our borders to the european commission, so that it can decide on the entry of large groups of immigrants without the states being able to oppose it. the majority of immigrants arriving at the southern border and at almost all the external borders, except the ukrainian ones, are illegal economic immigrants, the commission itself says. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the newly arrived refugees are not relocated to third countries. there is no measure to increase the effective rate of return, no measure in the countries of origin or transit to prevent arrivals, no measure to shield the border and protect our agents. so if this is what the majority of the 705 members of this house want, let us vote and let the citizens know so that when the slums of any european city become impassable, when national or european law is no longer respected, when unemployment increases and social systems are in crisis, europeans will know who is responsible.
the rapporteur. madam president, mr hahn, mr murphy, as rapporteur for the european parliament's 2021 accounts, i have to admit that examining how we have used our budget and what we need to do to improve it is not an easy task. we are talking about 2 billion euros, some 9 000 employees, 705 members of parliament and a large property portfolio. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the fact that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area. the european parliament is the only european institution elected by direct universal suffrage and represents the voice of citizens throughout the union. that is why accountability, transparency and integrity are fundamental in all the union's institutions, but particularly in the home of european democracy. i would like to thank the other rapporteurs for their work and support in ensuring that the report we adopted in the committee on budgetary control reflected the need to go into all these aspects in depth and i hope that after tomorrow's vote they will be retained in the final text. the year 2021 continued to be marked by the covid-19 pandemic. for much of the year parliament had to continue to apply many of the extraordinary measures which had been adopted the previous year to continue the activity of the institution: teleworking, remote voting, hybrid meetings. and so the budget was also adopted with savings on some budget lines which were transferred to others, such as the reduction of debt by the expansive building policy. we can be pleased that parliament has been resilient in the face of an unpredictable situation of enormous magnitude and has been able to give a quick and flexible response, based largely on human effort and also on the digitisation of administration, in which, without a doubt, we must continue to invest, as well as in cybersecurity, to fight against the increasingly present and dangerous foreign interference in the european institutions. once again i wanted to be objective in my report, taking into account the difficult context of urgency, but also the responsibility of the administration in managing the budget and human resources. that is why, within the management of the pandemic, i highlight very positive aspects such as the successful vaccination campaign that allowed to protect the health of all. but i also mention decisions which do not justify certain expenditure, such as the renovation of a garden adjacent to parliament in brussels, or decisions which have not helped to maintain good working conditions for the staff of the institution. i also value the energy-saving and environmental footprint reduction measures of the institution and also the intense and diverse communication activity carried out by parliament to inform citizens. but we continue to demand necessary changes in the working conditions of our assistants. all this and much more is covered in the report. but, in addition to the pandemic, a second factor has had an impact on the 2021 management approval: the qatargate scandal, which, although it did not happen in 2021, we could not fail to address in this report. this scandal has served as a stimulus for parliament to revise its rules on ethics and transparency, but it must be remembered that some of them were already being defended in our committee. they had even been approved in plenary years ago, although without success in their implementation. as rapporteur i have tried to reach agreement with the other groups on a number of measures which parliament should implement in order to avoid any similar situation in the future and, above all, to repair the damage done to its credibility, to the trust which citizens should place in this institution. the proposals include strengthening transparency around lobbying activity, improving controls to avoid conflicts of interest, as in public procurement too, and revising the code of conduct to prevent and punish unethical individual behaviour. we must not forget that these are individual behaviours, but they are harmful to everyone as a whole, and it is right to acknowledge the reactive capacity of parliament, which in a few months has made important steps towards transparency and accountability. and i, of course, welcome all of those improvements. but we must not forget that rules are of little use if there is no adequate system of implementation, control and sanction. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. but what we ask of others we do not always demand of ourselves. we are risking the confidence of the citizens and therefore the future of the union. we can't let this opportunity pass us by.
madam president, dear commissioner, members of the court of auditors, dear colleagues, i know it feels like a very long time ago, but 2021 was not that far in our calendar. i’m sure that you all remember how tough it was, and probably it is quite easy from the distance at the time to judge what is wrong and what is right. but the truth is that all european institutions, including the european parliament, were facing a lot of challenges. i think all those who were taking decisions in that difficult period deserve our respect and our applauses. this is why i have a pledge towards you to keep the discharge focused solely on procedure and in mind proportionally with the situation of 2021. of course, i understand why some political groups were tabling amendments for the events of december 2022 related to qatargate. i stand strongly to all our efforts to recover the trust of the european parliament and the european institutions and work for more transparency. i am proud that the epp is supporting our president of fighting to recover the good image of the european parliament. as a bulgarian, but also as a european, i’m here to work for a more transparent parliament, leading a modern democracy to represent the views of all eu citizens, and i sincerely believe that this is what this parliament is standing for. finally, i think during that crisis, that tough period for all of us, the parliament managed successfully to maintain the representation of people, and we did it good and served as a good example.
madam president, i am also taking part in this debate on the implementation of the 2021 budget in my capacity as vice-president of parliament, responsible for the budget of the european parliament. and i want to start by reminding you that 2021 was still a year marked by the constraints of the pandemic, in which parliament had to continue to mobilise extraordinary resources to deal with an extraordinary situation. and so we have continued to invest in information and communication technology tools and equipment to enable parliament to do its job, while also stepping up investment in cybersecurity. but above all i wanted to underline that parliament's 2021 budget was also an investment in european democracy, where we supported the conference on the future of europe - a conference where citizens asked us for a closer and more participatory europe, with more information about europe and european values. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of members of the european parliament who are eligible to vote in the european parliament by a maximum of two. nine of these centres have already opened, they have had over 2 million visitors and so we can say that the 'europa experience' project is already a successful formula for a more participatory and stronger democracy.
madam president, the european union is betraying the spirit of the frontex agency. initially, the agency was involved in helping member states to protect their external borders. but with the new migration pact, commissioner johansson unveils her disastrous plan to submerge europe in migration and transform frontex. the eu had announced that it wanted to reduce illegal immigration, when in reality the migration pact is the legalization of illegal immigration. the pact expands the notion of family reunification. the pact sanctifies ngos. the pact simplifies asylum applications. and the pact makes it mandatory to relocate migrants in member states. frontex has also begun its transformation. with the migration pact, it is put under the tutelage of the brussels immigrationists, who make it a control agency of the member states and a travel agency for migrants. a sad end for this agency, which tomorrow we will raise from the ashes.
the commission has already done so. the commission shall be responsible for the implementation of the budget. i am disappointed with the balance sheet of this fund. a disappointment because i can neither judge nor control the balance. the commission has promised us that it will apply the same standards as the structural funds regulations, namely the publication of the beneficiaries of the funds. this has not happened except for the very big ones. instead, we rely on a reporting system of the commission, which in turn relies only on the data from the member states. but how are we supposed to control the nice-sounding milestones and headlines if we can't look in the books? and the court of auditors is also totally overwhelmed. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of member states that have a budget deficit of more than ecu 1 billion. i am sorry, but there is a danger of arbitrariness and fraud. the only consequence of this from the point of view of budgetary control is that this uncontrollable form of european debt-raising must not continue, especially since financing from own resources is more uncertain than ever. in future, this means first agreeing on own resources in a legally secure manner, then on financing. this also means bringing in much more private capital for the tasks of the future and then leveraging them with eu funds. yes, and the tasks ahead, which are indeed enormous, are also attractive - from energy networks and hydrogen projects to the development of new sources of raw materials, and even to the reconstruction of ukraine. if we tackle this with soundness and with the economy, we can finance the tasks of the future in a sustainable way.
madam president, commissioner, the approval of the european funds by this house has been a success. something we can't say about execution in our country, in spain. the spanish regions complain of a lack of co-governance. the self-employed, smes and workers complain that they do not receive funds. and therefore something is wrong. the government is lacking. the spanish government is only right when it copies the popular party - it did so by lowering vat, electricity and gas, vat on foodstuffs and now with the guarantee for housing for young people - so that it also copies the co-governance we are asking for in the european funds, a rapid implementation and that the penalties for embezzlement are tightened, so that no one steals a single euro of public money. it's never too late if the copying measure is good. so take note, socialist gentlemen. the spanish government has reduced the crime of embezzlement because one of its parliamentary partners, with convicts in his ranks, has asked for it. something that transcends any political boundary and is more than political. and this is not from me, but from a regional leader of the spanish socialist workers' party in spain, mr garcia-page. while brussels is calling for tougher penalties for embezzlement, sánchez is reducing them. so, socialists, correct yourselves, listen to europe and stop lying to the spanish people, but also to this parliament. so less lessons in fighting corruption. more facts. who are over-abundant in the former and under-abundant in the latter.
madam president, commissioner, the success of the recovery funds cannot be measured in payment requests or in transfers made by the commission. nor can it be done because of the aesthetic quality of the powerpoint presentations in which the individual member states are presenting their national plans. the art of propaganda, in which, by the way, mr sánchez's government is absolutely a genius. now, the success of the mrr, the success of the recovery funds is going to be measured in the success of the impact of the reforms that create more opportunities for smes, for entrepreneurs, for those who are looking for work, and also in the funds reaching the final recipients, in the funds reaching those projects for which they are intended. and in order to measure this success, we need to have transparency, to have absolute transparency. and it is the commission's responsibility to ensure that there is that transparency. a transparency that allows us to know, as in the case of spain, exactly how many payments have been made from the next generation funds and that we can finally know an official data an official data that we have not had since august 2021 on the execution of the recovery funds. and for the next generation funds to be successful, these funds, these measures, these reforms, these investments have to be reforms agreed upon: agreed upon with the regions, agreed upon with the local authorities, agreed upon with the entrepreneurs, agreed upon with civil society. and to this day it hasn't been done that way. and i call on the commission to be as strict as possible with spain in preparing the addendum which the spanish government is drawing up for the application for the loans. only if it's a true national plan will it be a success. and, of course, if it is again a sánchez plan, it will be doomed to failure, like the current national plan.
the rapporteur. madam president, madam minister, after listening to the last speeches in particular, i would like to make a couple of points. mrs montserrat, out of the appreciation and respect i have for you, you mix churras with merinas. the only thing that is failing in the management of spain is the opposition that the spanish government has. look, the 2021 management approval is the first in which we are examining the recovery and resilience mechanism and it is vitally important that our report establishes a solid, objective and truthful basis for its analysis and that it does not provide incorrect or biased information for the citizenship. in 2021 only spain received a payment, and you should be proud of your country for this, comrades of the popular party. and being the first is the one that's getting the most scrutiny. the european commission has repeatedly stated that spain has fully complied with all the milestones and targets, as has been the case in subsequent payment requests. mrs montserrat, you were not fortunate enough to come to madrid with the committee on budgetary control, but as the conclusions of the mission show and as we were able to see in person, the spanish government is doing a great deal of work on the management of funds, and after a great deal of effort it has developed pioneering control systems to avoid both conflicts of interest and the misuse of funds, something which is what our committee on budgetary control is concerned about. all information on the use of funds, calls for proposals and approved projects is accessible to the public in a transparent manner. mrs. benjumea, you just want a piece of information. i think that one data does not show the effect of reforms. if you look for that data on the web pages, you'll find it, but you have to look for it. so please do not try to politicize this report and let us all offer truthful information, as is our institutional responsibility.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, today is a historic day. after years of fighting for the ratification of the istanbul convention by the european union, we are literally one step away from making it a reality. i have no doubt that tomorrow parliament will give its consent by a large majority and leave all responsibility to the council. although ratification has a limited scope of action, in that area the convention will be binding, even for those states which have refused to ratify it, so that failure to do so will require the adoption of measures, and we will be attentive. unfortunately, this stubborn resistance will not allow its full and uniform application throughout the union. so there will still be casualties of the first and second kind, but we will not give up. that is why we are going to adopt the directive on combating violence against women and the reform of the directive on trafficking, presumably under the spanish presidency. because if they close a door, we'll open a window. the spanish government has been exemplary in this area and we will work from here to ensure that expectations are not lowered. we have already had to abandon the classification of gender-based violence as a european crime and we will not give in any further. today begins a journey that must not be returned. we are late to the lives of many women, to those who are murdered, raped, beaten, abused, abandoned, left alone, inside and outside our borders. i wish i could recite all their names here to honor and repair them because we've come here for them, too. and today, for them and for all women, we cry out: never again!
finally, madam president, commissioner, the european union is acceding to the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, better known as the istanbul convention. a convention which was concluded 12 years ago but which was still blocked by the council of the union. the istanbul convention is the first european instrument to establish binding legal rules for the eradication of gender-based violence and, together with the new directive we are currently working on, it provides a starting point for any legislation in this area. with tomorrow's vote the european union will adopt two parts of the text on the institutions of the union and judicial cooperation, and although the greens/efa would have liked the text to be ratified by a large majority, without limitations, the step we hope the european union will take tomorrow is a victory for this parliament and for all the women of europe. and since it is a victory we shall achieve tomorrow, let me propose a toast. a toast to this being only the beginning of the end of inequality and gender violence, to this being the beginning of the feminist and democratic europe we all fight for. (the speaker refuses to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure by mr ladislav ilčić.)
madam president, commissioner, gender-based violence is a persistent and structural problem also among europeans, whites and christians. it has nothing to do with islam or with migrants, as has been said today, unfortunately, in this house. it is a violence that continues to kill women, even in life. lives shattered, filled with fear, guilt or despair. that's why most victims don't report it. that's why we need laws, policies, institutions. furthermore, in the march eurobarometer last year, in 2022, it was said that three out of four european women considered that after covid had increased physical and emotional violence against women. that is why it is important that we approve the ratification of the istanbul convention tomorrow. and may that momentum also enable us to adopt soon the directives on violence and trafficking, presumably during the next spanish presidency, which will have the fight for equality and against violence against women as one of its priorities, as has always happened when the socialists have governed in spain.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, sudan is on the brink of civil war due to the army's confrontation with the far, the country's main paramilitary organization. many democratic forces, the main supporters of the revolution, had been warning of the possibility of this conflict since the coup d'état of 2021. the message in the streets is very clear: no transition will be democratic if the power of the army is used and the will of the people is ignored. this message was ignored by international actors, including the european union, in order to promote a supposed stability that would allow economic exchanges such as the gold trade to be maintained, which is beneficial for the elite but not for its citizens. interests for which the military confrontation is now taking place. the sudanese people are once again in a critical situation: hundreds of dead, thousands of displaced people, in an extremely vulnerable humanitarian context. a ceasefire is necessary. and today we call on the european union and the member states to work to ensure that humanitarian aid reaches the country and to accept asylum applications from those fleeing barbarism. the european union's external action must be consistent and responsible.
madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to express my gratitude to the military and diplomatic corps of our member states, and in particular to ambassador o'hara, who was attacked in the first days of the uprising, because, as they did two years ago in afghanistan, they have played an extraordinary role in the repatriation of our compatriots. however, millions of civilians have been orphaned in sudan because they have no government or army to protect them. hundreds of thousands have fled across the border and others have stayed and risked, risked dying, risked their lives simply by leaving their homes. the situation is simply catastrophic. whether it was foreseeable or not, we'll never know. but for the european union, the response to this crisis is the consequence of years of lack of effective engagement with the sahel. a year ago, they warned of the epidemic of coups in the region: eight in just two years. today we are facing a new blow and we are also facing its consequences: the forgotten dignity of the sudanese, the migratory pressure in the border states and the oasis for terrorist groups. we have seen it in other countries in the region. every time there is a step back in europe or from europe, it is a step forward, in this case, for russia and for china, and sudan is not going to be less, unfortunately. if russia is among the main supporters of the rebel general hemedti, we can all imagine who is profiting again. in that sense, commissioner, i appreciate mr borrell's efforts in this crisis, but it is not enough. either we define once and for all an ambitious and effective agenda for africa, or we shall be talking again in a few months about a new coup d'état, which in this case will unfortunately be the ninth.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, commissioner, a recent report by the etui shows that the shortage of workers is greatest in the unskilled sectors and profiles. we know that 39% of adult workers in the european union are overqualified. in spain, more than 29%. in other words, there is no shortage of skilled workers, but rather of quality jobs, good working conditions with stable careers and investment in training. companies need to be held accountable, because they too benefit from the updating of skills. and of course, there is a lack of good regulated vocational training and a greater role for public employment services. but none of this will work if the strategies for skills and those for creating and maintaining quality jobs are not linked, because without skilled work there is no stable employment and without stable employment there are no skilled workers. there is no right to education, training and lifelong learning without good wages and job security, and the labour market will be more competitive and more profitable with trained workers who can design their own life plan.
madam president, commissioner, this debate may not be the opening of a news programme, but i believe that it will change the lives of european citizens today, on europe day. the data support this: nine out of ten citizens in the european union believe in the green deal and sustainability, but only 32% have the capacity today to repair their products in our european market. so it's important that the european union works on this directive on consumer empowerment for the green transition for one clear reason: we need to address and eliminate unfair trade practices that cause many companies to show information that is not real on their products. we european socialists believe that it is important, above all, to put an end to planned obsolescence, that it is important to promote the durability of products and the repairability of our products, especially technological products. and also, that labels are now a real way, that the consumer, when he goes to buy a product, knows what he is buying and that companies cannot put on the labels everything they want. so this is a way of making europe much greener, more sustainable, but above all closer to the citizens.
madam president, today, september 11th, is the one-year anniversary of the coup d'état in chile that killed president allende. and 50 years later, on the 50th anniversary of that coup, we see coup d'états still happening in chile. there are coups d'état, in some cases, classic, with their military, their police, their massacres and their murders, as in bolivia, and others that use new tactics like lawfare. coup d'états in paraguay, in honduras, one in brazil against the president dilma... in parallel with this, we see the spread of hate speech in europe, generated by the same fascism here. we believe that we must take advantage of this plenary session and this anniversary to have a debate in which we openly discuss the dangers we are living here, because we have already seen what is happening elsewhere. we therefore propose that tomorrow, in the debate with mr borrell, we hold a debate entitled '50 years since the assassination of allende and the coup d'état in chile: democracy and sovereignty'.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. madam president, water is key and hence this proposal to amend three directives with the aim of updating the lists of water pollutants and to control more strictly surface water and also groundwater. we set new standards for substances that harm nature and human health in line with scientific progress and streamline monitoring processes that prioritise groundwater and river basin pollutants. europe is sending a clear message about water. but in some territories this message is not being heard, as is the case in my own country with the doñana national park, where the government of the junta of andalusia is going against the tide. this is despite the successive warnings from the european institutions and now also from unesco as a world heritage site that is said park. so let us not forget that water is key, that water is life and we must protect it.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, my colleague from the socialist group, gabby bischoff, for her work and all the members who have contributed to the report. as has already been said, parliament had to give a strong response in terms of strengthening integrity, our internal controls, transparency in relation to the event known as qatargate. it is true that it is not necessarily ideal practice to have to legislate in the wake of a specific case, but this case has certainly allowed us to do an updating exercise that could have been pending. and in that regard, i think we should highlight important progress such as a clearer definition of what we consider a conflict of interest, more publicity of members' activities, their meetings and the organisations with which they meet, and also an increase in sanctions for unlawful conduct. it is true that we have not achieved absolute consensus in the house, which is regrettable, because of the lack of competition from the people's group. let us hope that it may still be possible before the vote in plenary.
madam president, we welcome all the internal measures that serve to strengthen the integrity, transparency and accountability of this european parliament, as they are a great step towards consolidating the ethical culture of the european institutions. rules should deter, hinder and punish unethical individual behaviour. but we say it again and again in the committee on budgetary control: only effective controls will prevent the misuse of public resources and the cost of corruption to the european budget. we therefore continue to call for effective protection for whistleblowers, as well as for means to monitor strict compliance with the rules, including allowing olaf to investigate parliament in the event of well-founded suspicions. the socialists are ready to continue to lead the necessary reforms and we ask the right to join us, to vote with us for greater transparency and accountability. we must not miss any opportunity to restore the citizens' confidence in the european institutions.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one. and that is that the climate crisis is already here, and if there is a tool that is useful for us to decarbonize, to emit less co2, it is renewables. i therefore also ask some groups that flirt with climate denialism to take into account that, in that way, we also lose the renewable progress that europe needs. i think this is a good directive, ambitious. but a legislative text alone is not convincing. we have to do more. we must all come together to meet the challenge of increasing the renewables we produce and consume in europe. this is a good directive, moreover, because it not only increases ambition, but also improves spatial planning, seeks public acceptance of projects to make the development of renewables compatible with the territories where they are located. in addition, this directive seeks climate justice, which is also social justice, because let us not forget that renewable energies are also affordable for citizens. it is now up to the member states to adopt, develop and implement it. but let us not forget that this is also an opportunity for employment and leadership for europe. let us bear this in mind, because international competition is very strong and this leadership will depend on us.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, commissioner, this summer we have broken all the extreme temperature records in europe. we have also seen part of our forests burn. after that, we've had torrential rains and also a brutal rise in sea temperature. these are just some of the consequences of climate change today. and in that sense, it is imperative that when we talk about fighting climate change, we do so from the concrete side as well, by providing solutions. one of the most important is the adaptation and transformation of the current energy model, a transition that accelerates the abandonment of fossil energy for renewable energy, which is done with criteria of social justice, which allows the planning of available resources in a rational way and, if possible, to do so from the public. that is why i recognize that this directive is not our ideal. in fact, we believe that much more demanding measures would be needed, such as our proposal to increase renewables to 50% or the question of biomass. however, we believe that the approach is positive and that it will allow us to take a further step towards a decarbonised model.
on behalf of the s&d group. i would also like to thank mrs walsmann for the mandarines during the break, because it has not been an easy job in some respects, from a technical or political point of view. but i think the document we have today is very satisfactory. the protection of geographical indications for handicrafts and industrial products has been an issue for many years, and has been a priority for my political group. our interest lies in protecting collective rights that perform public functions. they are decisive for the economic dynamism of our regions, they promote the preservation and promotion of jobs and the quality of the know-how of local artisans and producers. they are a support tool against counterfeiting and, why not, they help to fix and attract population and thus reverse the trend towards depopulation in some regions of the european union, such as my own region, león. the fact that this agreement is endorsed in tomorrow's vote is therefore crucial for many selfemployed people, micro-enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises, especially those in the rural geography of the european union.
mr. president, europe is in trouble, but brussels is unable to provide concrete solutions. look what's happening around us on the streets of western europe. islamic terrorists are killing innocent people. mass demonstrations are being held to fuel a terrorist organization and openly anti-semitic incitement has been unfolding since world war ii. the link between illegal migration and terrorism is clearer than the sun. in comparison, many still repeat the absurd claim here that immigration is good and we need it. it must also be said that, although many here support the continuation of the war without criticism, brussels' ukraine strategy has failed. today, more than a year and a half after the war began, we are not a step closer to ending the fighting, as hundreds of thousands die on the battlefield. but we can also have chaos around the eu budget or false ideological attacks on conservative governments and illegal withholding of money. instead of a policy that weakens europe, we need new leadership that puts the interests of europeans first, at the forefront. in brussels, it's time for a change.
mr president, as we are now in the general debate on the council conclusions and as europe has always defended the rule of law, the separation of powers and equality of citizens, let me ask you if you are aware of what is happening in spain. did you know that the current president of the spanish government is preparing a massive amnesty pacted with convicted felons and refugees in exchange for their votes to continue to govern? did you know that this amnesty will erase corruption crimes committed for ten years and even intends to include those prosecuted for terrorism? are you aware that this past monday even the general council of the judiciary itself has approved an institutional resolution in which it is stated that this amnesty is the abolition of the rule of law? look, don't believe sanchez's false story that this amnesty is for coexistence and harmony; it's for convenience and power. europe must react to the violation of these principles. europe cannot and must not allow this crash. europe cannot look the other way in the face of the demolition of the rule of law. and let them know that as a democrat and as a european i will not be silent and will continue to denounce him as often as necessary. (the speaker refuses to be asked by diana riba i giner a question in accordance with the procedure for the blue card.)
madam president, the nightmare of gaza is more than a humanitarian crisis. it's a crisis of humanity. gaza has become a children's cemetery. the attacks of october 7th did not come out of nowhere. they come after decades of strangling occupation. these are not my words. these are the words of the secretary-general of the united nations, mr antonio guterres. and the israeli regime's response has been to ask for mr guterres' resignation. mrs von der leyen, who has not even had the decency to stay here and wait for our response after her propaganda in favour of the israeli regime, has no need to fear the resignation request from israel. he has no dignity like mr. guterres. i am here to formally ask mrs von der leyen to resign because she is speaking on behalf of the european union, without anyone's endorsement and giving unconditional support to a terrorist regime that is bombing hospitals, churches, mosques, ambulances, that is killing children and women, that yesterday bombed a red cross convoy that was carrying medicine to al-shifa hospital, that four days ago bombed a convoy that was taking children to egypt for treatment. i formally ask mrs von der leyen to resign... (the speaker agrees to answer a question asked in accordance with the blue card procedure.)
blue card answer. let's see, i've met a lot of people. i met with prime minister haniya when he was prime minister of gaza, where i lived, in a protocol meeting. i've met a lot of people, and i'm not ashamed of that meeting. i would be embarrassed by other meetings i have also had here in the european parliament. i condemn the crimes of all civilians. when you kill a civilian, it's a crime. do you condemn the killing of palestinian children by israel? i condemn anyone who has killed an israeli civilian, whether child, woman or old. do you condemn the killing of palestinian children by israel?
madam president, what are you waiting for? what are you waiting for to demand compliance with international law from israel? a month of siege in gaza, more than 10,000 people killed 4,000 children, unrwa staff, journalists, water, light and food cuts, ambulances, hospitals and schools bombed, more than 1.5 million people displaced. how many war crimes have i already named? how many? planned genocide in front of their noses. and you are not able to demand a ceasefire and react. sanctions against those responsible, arms embargo, suspension of the association agreement. they end israel's impunity. silence and inaction also hold them accountable today. it's a shame. and of course not on our behalf. if you have any dignity left, act now.
madam president, do you know that there is a government in europe that openly supports hamas? that government exists. that government is the spanish government of socialists and communists, where ministers have been marching in favour of hamas through the streets of madrid and spain. there have been many forces in europe, not only foreign ones, not only those millions of people who we have brought, many of them sworn enemies of our western society, and who we have imported, that anti-semitism that we have imported into all of europe and that we have at this moment so actively, so cruelly active. that's what's happening here. this is a war against the west. israel is the stronghold of the west. if israel falls, which knows how to defend itself, where will we end up, which do not know how to defend ourselves and are opening the doors permanently to the enemy and treating the enemy the enemies inside and outside dictatorships as we are treating them?
madam president, mrs montserrat, in spain a customary constitutional procedure is under way in which the king has ordered a second investiture of mr sanchez because that of his leader has failed. and while the negotiators of the parliamentary forces are negotiating, the parliamentary forces are negotiating, you have joined the nazis, the francoists and the fascists in organizing street rallies where you are even asking the police to disobey their authorities against a constitutional procedure. that is the real risk to the rule of law in spain. mr tertsch, the spanish government's position is clear, clear and repeated: condemnation of hamas' terrorist action, demand for restraint and legality in israel's response and a humanitarian ceasefire. i think we should all listen a second time to what our colleague lópez istúriz has just told us.
madam president, we have heard the presentations of the president of the european commission and the president of the european council on the resumption of further enlargement to the east of the european union and the western balkans: the opening of the chapters with ukraine and moldova and the status of georgia as a candidate. it's something i certainly support. at the same time, we have not heard the necessary link between this enlargement process and the political deepening of the integration project. the expansion and the deepening must go hand in hand. we cannot propose these enlargements without opening the process of reforming the treaties. i therefore remind the european council that, at its meeting on 15 december, it has the opportunity to approve the european parliament's proposal to convene a convention for the reform of the treaties.
madam president, more than 4,000 children have died. more than 4,000. this is unbearable. the acts committed by hamas are abominable, and we reiterate our condemnation without any excuse. but i will be very clear: nothing, i repeat, nothing can justify the deliberate massacre of civilians that israel is committing in gaza. israel has a right to defend itself. yes, within international law. but he's not doing it. it's attacking hospitals, un facilities, shelters and schools. the un rapporteur herself has said there is a clear risk of genocide in gaza. how can we allow war crimes of this magnitude to be perpetrated before our eyes without doing anything? we must stop this now and urgently take diplomatic, economic and political action. the immediate ceasefire, the unconditional release of all hostages, scrupulous respect for international humanitarian law, more humanitarian aid and the suspension of arms sales.
madam president, mr commissioner, congratulations on your work. you know i'm usually very critical of your management, but i think making ten reports of this entity is a great job for you and your team. i think we're fixing the mistake that was made a few months ago in georgia. i think putting georgia in a more proactive position will surely take away the reasons for those who have less enthusiasm within the country to move closer to europe. and, following the idea of mr bütikofer, there is one country, perhaps two, very particular in this package: turkey is not moving forward. turkey does not progress lazyly or with difficulty. turkey is falling behind in terms of democratic standards and therefore needs to be put in a different situation. beware of general offers to all candidate countries when not all political wills go in the same direction. i repeat an idea i told you this morning: there are no geopolitical shortcuts. it is one thing that the enlargement process is triggered by a geopolitical situation and it is another thing that the accession process is a merit-based process, in any case. i am talking about turkey and i am also talking about some eastern neighbors. we must therefore be careful not to enter into this logic that in some candidate countries, as they need us for other reasons, they do not look at democratic standards.
mr president, commissioner, this is the first edition to assess the impact of the energy crisis, and i see that the report is optimistic about how the union has dealt with the price crisis, but i think it forgets to assess how energy prices have been passed on to the public in the form of inflation on such basic products as food and how some of the measures implemented in certain countries have been more effective in controlling inflation. for example, in my country, spain, they allowed electricity prices to fall by 42%, according to eurostat, last year. it is true, commissioner, that you have done a good job, but you had to take emergency measures and regulations. very complex and very complicated situations have been saved. we must not be complacent, as the commission report itself acknowledges, as market volatility is still being felt and we are about to adopt an extension of measures that have been used in an emergency and in a geopolitically complicated scenario. i think our fossil dependence continues to be a serious climate problem and also an economic drag. we have a new renewable energy directive. we must be ambitious and ensure that it is implemented in every corner of the european union. finally, we have the reform of the electricity market. we hope to pass it this year: we have the commission and we believe it must become a reality in this legislature.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, after lengthy negotiations we will be able to vote on a coherent and balanced euro 7 standard which takes into account the health of citizens and improves air quality. our proposal reduces nox emissions by 60% in trucks, 33% in cars and for the first time in the world, particulate matter from brakes and wheels, and increases the durability of batteries. as i say, it is a sensible proposal, with realistic implementation times for industry and, most importantly, without any further costs for consumers. i am reminded that what the socialists and greens are asking for here is to raise the price of lower-end vehicles and to put more sticks on the wheels to renew the old fleet of vehicles that runs on the roads of many european countries. not only that, but its proposal also jeopardizes the manufacture of smaller vehicles - precisely those made in europe - and, with it, thousands of jobs, for example in spain. we therefore ask you to support our proposal, which is good for the environment, good for citizens and also good for europe's competitiveness.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i thank you again for the work done on this text. we are all aware of the challenges to advance our environmental and climate objectives, while maintaining the competitiveness of our automotive industry and providing our citizens with the best conditions for affordable mobility. i took good note of the positions taken by all during this debate. there is always a bit of tension between the three objectives which i mentioned earlier, but i am confident that you will find the required majority to progress on this file and start the trilogues shortly. i know that with the right ambition, we can support a green, digital and resilient single market for motor vehicles. rest assured that the commission will continue to support you in this effort and work proactively on the implementation framework, so we look forward to working with the parliament in this common endeavour.
in writing. we all want to breathe the cleanest air possible, but i am afraid euro7 will not help us in this fundamental way. the euro 6 already in force has reduced emissions by 90% and i consider the effort to regulate further without restoring the fleet of vehicles that pollutes the environment the most to be useless. euro7 will be applied to new cars and will therefore overpriced their production, making new cars even less accessible to citizens and more accessible to people. moreover, the eu has already approved that only zero-emission cars will be produced from 2035, so i don't think it's reasonable to push for the past few years to be as green as possible and to force car companies to switch to new systems for the last few years. it is good that the rapporteur's report approved by the european parliament has been able to get several improvements over the original proposal of the european commission which would be liquidating for carmakers, but i could not support this report because i believe it will not bring the desired results and substantial progress, but rather will only make new cars inaccessible to our citizens.
in writing. the draft euro 7 regulation extends the objective of reducing emissions of road transport pollutants by emissions from braking and tyre braking, but also extends the life of batteries. it is important that the conditions for industry are realistic, so i welcome the compromise text that has withdrawn from the high demands for the modification of current combustion engines. i am also convinced that all four key amendment proposals which we have identified as a priority for the european people will be approved.
mr president, i would like to thank the members for their attention, some of whom i have negotiated with as alternate speakers and with whom i have had the pleasure of drawing up this document, which i would like to frame in what has been the legislative policy of some committees during this legislative period. because in foreign policy we sometimes jump from crisis to crisis without having a proper time to reflect on the horizontal aspects of the policy or on the instruments of foreign policy. and yet, in this last part of the legislature i think we have produced a good package of documents and recommendations, among which i would point out the one on preventive diplomacy and others on parliamentary diplomacy, the defence of multilateralism, the functioning of the european external action service, the idea of the european diplomatic school, cultural diplomacy and cooperation with the intelligence services in external crises. and now we would like to join with this recommendation the concerns of the committee on foreign affairs and the subcommittee on human rights, where we have been asking for years how to deal with the increasing presence and assertiveness of authoritarian and illiberal regimes, regimes that continue to maintain a very essential feature despite the deterioration of democracy, which is to pretend to make elections, so that the ballot box remains a sort of tribal totem even in some of the most brutal dictatorships: we must pretend that we have democratic legitimacy. and that's why it's changing the nature of election observation itself. election observation has for many years been a way of assisting countries to make elections better and in this climate it is becoming a kind of early warning system about the legitimacy of authoritarian regimes. this recommendation addresses the issue from a different perspective than the one we have used so far: from the point of view of the right of every citizen to participate in fair and free elections. the right to participate is not a right that has as much tradition as the right to expression, to demonstration or to assembly, but it is in all international human rights treaties and allows us to use it as another element in the ideological confrontation with authoritarian and illiberal systems because we can activate it as a citizen's right. that is why in this recommendation we stress the fact that elections are a process: beware of the impression that is given in authoritarian systems that elections are a one-day thing, while the whole very long process of registering participants, party financing, access to media, access to the judiciary, census making, seems to be out of the spotlight or what normal citizens consider elections. we must therefore link this right to participation with other rights i have spoken of: assembly, demonstration... the right to participate must be ensured that any discrimination between voters is avoided and the question of information must be addressed, which in these authoritarian regimes is in many cases merely propaganda by the regimes. and for that we have tools, such as spreading a counter-report to the story of democracies that are always on the brink of collapse, a new idea of international and domestic electoral observation, the fight against disinformation (especially severe during election periods), the inclusion of electoral integrity in the human rights dialogues of the european union delegations in other countries, and sanctions for those who in illiberal systems impede the right to participate, all within the framework of a policy that i believe must continue to be framed in the un human rights council. i thank the alternate speakers and would be delighted to participate in the debate.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i want to thank the rapporteur mr sanchez amor and all meps who contributed to this report. you are bringing forward one of the most complex challenges the eu needs to face as a global actor, which is helping citizens across the world to exercise their right to participate in public life and elections. your report highlights that 80 % of the world’s population currently lives in countries that cannot be considered free. only three decades ago, one could believe that the end of the cold war would give way to a world predominantly ruled by democratic nation states. today, we know that not only democracy cannot be taken for granted, but our liberal democracies increasingly come under attack. we need to make one thing clear from the start. the right to participate in public life and to vote in democratic elections is a human right, a basic right recognised by international law to all citizens across the world, but that fewer and fewer individuals can fully enjoy. you say in in your report that this right is under threat, not only because authoritarian regimes violently silence the opposition, perpetuate themselves in power, abusing the system, or even come to power by means of military coup d’état. amongst the most dangerous but less obvious threats are the proliferation of illiberal actors who, disguised as democrats, instrumentalise social networks and traditional media to spread false or manipulated information to unjustifiably delegitimise democratic electoral processes, foster mistrust and disenchantment among the population, and ultimately discourage the vote, disempower the electorate, and hijack democratic elections. the strategies used by illiberal regimes and actors are becoming increasingly sophisticated. in particular, the development of digital and artificial intelligence tools are creating a whole world of opportunities, but also challenges to our democracies. for instance, when used to shape and fuel divisive narratives or a distorted perception of reality. these threats coexist with older tools used by autocratic regimes, including the deployment of fake observers that rubber stamp manipulated electoral outcomes. in the face of these challenges, the eu must be relentless in its efforts to uphold democratic processes worldwide. in this spirit, the eu has endowed the global europe human rights and democracy programme with eur 1.5 billion to support actions conducive to the respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and in particular to enhance democratic resilience and participation in third countries. one of the most visible examples of the eu’s actions in support of democracy remains our eu election observation missions. the eu electoral missions are not only highly recognised across the world for their professionalism and high standards of independence and impartiality, but, above all, they remain a crucial tool both for local actors and for the eu to first assess the electoral processes in light of international standards, and second, to identify the necessary actions to support as a follow up of their recommendations. the eu election observation mission to guatemala is only one recent example of the significant role that the eu-flagged missions can play in supporting democratic electoral processes. by adopting a long-term framework, the eu electoral observation missions have been able to expose many of the strategies that autocrats use to perpetuate themselves in power, for example, by capturing institutions, coercing voters or malignly manipulating information. at the same time, the eu observation missions themselves are sometimes facing challenges, including attempts to delegitimise their action when they expose undemocratic behaviours. however, this is a testimony of their good work in upholding democratic outcomes, particularly as opposition parties and civil society continue to highly demand the eu observation and make good use of their assessment and recommendations. in this regard, and on behalf of the high representative, allow me to take this opportunity to thank the european parliament once again, and most particularly the meps who serve as chief observers in our electoral missions, for your active engagement and support for the eu’s policies and actions in defence of democracy. you can rest assured that we will take good note of the suggestions you put forward on how to best support democratic participation across the world. your contribution as elected representatives of eu citizens remains key and remains always welcome.
on behalf of the epp group. mrs president, this report comes at a crucial moment. eighty percent of the world's population lives under authoritarian regimes that perpetuate themselves using electoral tools that mimic those used by democracies to impose their authority. they manipulate elections in such a way that their results mock the authority of the people and illegitimately endorse their power. the european union has election verification instruments: election observation missions, whose main objective is to deter fraud, provide an informed assessment of the process and strengthen confidence in these elections. the union's responsibility for these missions is outstanding. she must be careful in choosing where to look so that she cannot be called an accomplice and not seen as a legitimating force supporting the results of undemocratic elections. to maintain consistency in foreign policy we must assess our relations with these countries, follow up on the observations collected in their electoral process assessments and, if necessary, use the eu magnitsky act against those responsible for undermining human rights and democracy. i call on the foreign affairs council next week to reject the request of the spanish foreign minister and to continue imposing one-off sanctions on officials of the venezuelan regime who have undermined democracy and the rule of law in that country through elections.
the rapporteur. i would like to thank the commissioner for his remembrance of the ingenuity of the end of history and the fact that we are heading for a world of democracies. thank you, mrs hautala, for remembering that we met a few years ago on an election mission in armenia. i also agreed with mr mariani on another election mission and wanted to address just one of the issues he has referred to, and in a different way mr wallace. when we are going to make an election observation we do so at the invitation of the government, so that it is difficult to argue that this is an interference with the sovereignty of a country or is an intrusion into internal affairs. in fact, the problem with the european union now is that we are no longer receiving invitations because these illiberal regimes do not want witnesses to their election practices. and it is true, as mr wallace said, that we may appear as someone who wants to act in a paternalistic way, but we do so at the invitation of the countries, and the countries invite us and ask us to make recommendations to improve their electoral system, which is what we are dedicated to. and i would like to remind you that we exercise this function of election observation, along with others of promoting democracy, not only because of a conviction about the universality of the values we stand for, but also because of an interest. this is not just western world exports, of their values, sometimes termed neocolonial. i remind your honourable gentlemen that a world of democracies is a safer world because democracies are predictable, because democracies have systems of checks and balances, they have a free press and they have critical public opinion and therefore their decisions are generally quite predictable. and yet, authoritarian systems are characterized by the fact that the humor of a single person can lead to war or disaster. i would therefore like to remind you that these recommendations which we make (and which i believe should be placed more prominently on the european union's foreign policy agenda) are invited by the countries we visit. thank you to all the negotiators. i think the recommendation has been very well done. and thank you for the excellent debate.
mr president, the outcome of the summits must be measured by either the successes achieved or the agreements reached. when you don't get any, say it's been a success, keep negotiating, that's fine. i'm not going to talk about rare minerals. i'm not going to talk about aluminum. i'm going to talk about something much more humble: black olives, a product that, since 2018, the united states has been imposing tariffs on that have been declared illegal by the world trade organization. has this been discussed at the summit? no, man, no, you know what? we're for much higher things. is something solved? what's up? since when has the united states broken its commitments to respect wto decisions? and, above all, since when do you keep saying that the best way to force the united states to comply is to keep negotiating? and the question is, how long are you going to keep negotiating? how long will producers have to continue to bear illegal tariffs? how long will we have the patience not to give the answer that the united states deserves for its repeated violations?
mr president, i thank the secretary of state, mr angeles moreno bau, who has spoken on behalf of the spanish presidency. i would remind the house that on 14 august 1941 the atlantic charter was signed in newfoundland between the united states and the united kingdom. it was the common position of the allies in the face of the threat of nazi fascism. and in 1995, felipe gonzález, representing the spanish presidency, signed the new transatlantic agenda with bill clinton. we have since had the system of annual or biannual summits with their declarations, but we strangely lack a comprehensive joint framework of the relationship, whether in the form of a declaration a new atlantic charter or a bilateral treaty or an association agreement. i think we need to think in this direction so that we can address all the elements of this very important transatlantic relationship: trade, economic, investment and geopolitics.
on behalf of the s&d group, ladies and gentlemen, we have made this proposal in agreement with virtually all but one of the groups, since the subject of the report the next year's european parliament elections, including the issue of the process of candidates for the presidency of the european commission, as well as the development of the whole post-election process requires, in our opinion, the possibility of introducing some missing element which has not been negotiable in the form of amendments tabled in the plenary; and, above all, that there is no debate in this session. and we believe that, from what i said at the beginning of the debate, the importance of the subject requires that we can hold a debate at the next plenary session.
madam president, the net zero emissions industry law aims to strengthen the manufacturing capacity in europe for technologies that will help to decarbonize our economies. these projects and investments in strategic technologies will benefit from accelerated permits and financial support. green reindustrialisation must be based on innovation and science, but must have a very clear focus on training, skills and qualifications and contribute to the creation of quality jobs. the socialists, therefore, advocate social conditionality. because we must not forget that this law must be implemented according to criteria of social and territorial justice. hence the importance of zero emission industrial valleys to group industrial activities and create reindustrialisation ecosystems, also in areas that have a lot of potential with the green agenda, such as andalusia with the andalusian green hydrogen valley. because we insist that this green transition, this reindustrialisation, must be done with social justice and creating quality jobs.
the commission has also adopted a number of proposals for a new programme of action to improve the quality of life of the union's citizens.
the committee on agriculture delivered its opinion on the proposal for a council regulation (eec) on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of certain agricultural products. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs president, for all the work done in our commission. we have just heard the rapporteur of the envi commission, mrs wiener, and i acknowledge that the report which has come to this house today is not the one you have tabled, as it hardened and elevated the european commission's proposal. however, i think that the proposal we are discussing here today is still a problem for european agriculture, as the committee on agriculture and rural development has said, if it were to win the majority of the support. i have said this many times and i will repeat it for the wrong reasons: i agree, of course, with the reduction of phytosanitary chemicals over time, but this step cannot be taken without offering agronomically effective alternatives and thus fighting pests and plant health, an essential element of food security. we have therefore tabled amendment no 685, signed by members of parliament and members of the four political groups, which calls for 2035 to be the date of its implementation, since time must be given for these new alternatives to be adopted and approved. i would also like to say that the commission, in its proposal for a reduction calculation by member state, raises a number of problems - and you know it. we therefore propose in amendment no 686 that a minimum mandatory percentage of 35% be set per member state. of course, respect for the use of plant protection products in sensitive areas is also very important, but it must be considered by the area concerned. amendment no 687 therefore divides these areas and says above all that in natura 2000 areas, where there are large agricultural areas in most member states, categories one and two, organic farming and biocontrol must be allowed. on the other hand, and i'm done: financing. the cap cannot be used for everything, let alone after a drastic reform. it cannot be used as an instrument for all the regulations that are coming out. that is why we have deleted article 43 of the proposal. finally, we must ensure the supply of food, and this proposal does not guarantee it. i urge you to support this amendment.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, first of all, i want to thank you for the opportunity to debate the commission proposal for a regulation on the sustainable use of plant protection products. now, ever since the commission has adopted this proposal in june 2022, it has been the subject of strong and passionate debate, both among the honourable members in this house and also in the wider stakeholder community. and this is entirely understandable, because the use of pesticides is both an important and a sensitive topic. our previous discussions made clear that we can at least agree on one basic principle, namely, the importance of protecting citizens’ health and the environment, at the same time protecting the eu’s farmers, agricultural production and food security. and because we agree on this principle, i believe it is possible to reconcile the differing views and to make constructive progress on this file. constructive progress that will, on the one hand, respond to the demands from the citizens and consumers to reduce the use and risk of pesticides but, on the other hand, simultaneously ensure that our farmers retain an effective pest control toolbox and sufficient alternatives to the use of chemical pesticides. i note the emphasis placed on setting a positive target for the use of bio-control and low-risk products. the commission - and i wanted to share this with you - is working intensively with member states, industry and stakeholders to promote the availability and use of bio-control and low-risk alternatives to chemical pesticides. our non-paper on sensitive areas highlighted numerous ways in which the use and risk of pesticides could be reduced in such areas and still protect our agriculture. we also provided a comprehensive complementary analysis after the proposal had been adopted at the council’s request. in our response, we emphasise how progress towards the pesticide reduction targets could be made without compromising our food security and how the administrative burden on small- and medium-scale farmers can be reduced and minimised. turning to the international aspects, we must not lose sight of the goals agreed at the cop 15 global biodiversity framework meeting in montreal last december. one such international agreed target focuses on the overall risk from pesticides by at least half by 2030, including through integrated pest management and taking into account food security and livelihoods. this target comes close with the ambitions set out in the commission’s sur proposal. president, honourable members, i have always believed that it is of utmost importance that all views on this topic are listened to both carefully and respectfully. the commission has been doing that for the last 18 months. we have been showing pragmatism and flexibility, and i maintain that belief because i think it is our best chance at achieving progress. i’m going to be hearing all the points raised in this debate very carefully. i hope that they can be brought forward in the trilogue discussions that will follow, once council agrees on its general approach on this file. once again, thank you for all your constructive discussions with this, i look forward to the debate.
i'm not going to say. i would like to comment on the scientific and political arguments. i consider this regulation one of the most important in this mandate. i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, sarah wiener, on the considerable work she has done with her fellow rapporteurs. this regulation is based on two very important pillars: the preservation of biodiversity (because the more pesticides are used, the less fauna, flora and habitats there are, as pesticides are found in water, air and all environments). not to mention the health effects: for example, two days ago monsanto was attacked by three people with cancer, who showed a cause-and-effect link with the pesticides they were using, including glyphosate, which is an indirectly related subject. so we know, when we look at the occupational diseases of farmers, that they are caused by pesticides. so i want to speak to my colleagues. either we show at parliament level that politics takes over the agri-food lobbies, which will encourage people to vote for europe because europe protects. either you go against the objectives of this regulation, which means that the lobbies have won. this regulation on the sustainable use of plant protection products is therefore very important.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, the eurobarometer shows us that european citizens are ready and demanding a more sustainable and pesticide-free food system. but beyond these cold statistics, i could also tell you about the devastating impact of pesticides on biodiversity, on soils, on bees. but i will speak to you about these citizens who all of you represent here in this chamber and who will quickly be held accountable. i would like to tell you about this farmer who, throughout his career, used pesticides in his fruit tree farming and who, just days before retiring, was diagnosed with prostate cancer, which he will now have to fight for the rest of his life. he describes the physical shock, the emotional shock of this diagnosis. but more importantly, it is the lack of information from pesticide manufacturers and the falsehood of protective equipment which has ultimately proved to be more harmful to its health. i would also like to tell you about the manager of a horse centre who used herbicides in his activities, and whose son, this time exposed even before he was born, during pregnancy, who is now suffering the consequences of this exposure and who, at the age of sixteen, with multiple malformations, has already undergone 54 operations. these examples of pesticide-damaged lives, and of course ecological disasters, are indeed things we must absolutely act on. i also hear the demands of farmers, who, for the vast majority of them, want to produce better without being trapped in agrochemistry. so the text that was brought forward by sarah wiener and i thank her is exactly the balance we must bring here in this house. it first responds to the urgency by proposing a binding and ambitious reduction in the use of these pesticides. i ask that the amendments proposed by agri and others in the agri committee be rejected because they will not meet the objectives pursued. i am therefore pleased that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is not the farmers' federation that votes, but the citizens who ask you to be responsible for them.
i am not aware of anyone who is against reducing environmental impact. and i don't know a farmer who doesn't want to use fewer pesticides. it is important that we ensure that the risk of miso harvests is reduced. this is not only in the interests of the farmer, but also in the interests of the environment and our environment. because it's a waste of money if we use our seeds, diesel and other forms of energy throughout the season to grow that plant and then at the end of the season, in august-september, we find out that the harvest has failed. pure waste and also a pure waste of the food crops that are rotting on the land. what we must take care of if we want crop protection to be reduced is that there are also alternatives for farmers to continue protecting their crops. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the food and feed. and that's where it stops. these resources, these alternatives, are not yet available to a good extent and this is mainly due to the authorisation procedure for, for example, low-risk resources and biological resources. if we look at human health care, the approval of new drugs is a swiss watch. unfortunately, this is not the case when new plant protection products are authorised. this is gonna have to be different. we cannot aim to use 50% less crop protection by 2030 when farmers do not have the alternatives.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. we can give a good signal to europe tomorrow if we accept mrs wiener's proposal. it is not only about protecting biodiversity but also about protecting the health of european citizens. this is also true: we need to have a different farming environment in the long term, with fewer pesticides. those who say it was only pesticides should also look at many areas where it is not pesticides or much less. it is clear that if we follow the rules and take integrated agriculture as a prerequisite, we can already save 30% on pesticides. we need independent consulting, not from chemical companies. and of course, nature reserves must remain free of pesticides. we need a clear signal to the citizens of europe that we take the protection of biodiversity seriously. but, commissioner, if the commission is putting a fatal signal in this very situation and allows glyphosate to continue for 10 years, that is exactly the wrong message being sent. we need to take glyphosate off the market.
the commissioner, the president, the commissioner, the bees, butterflies and birds are threatened with extinction. farmers and their neighbors are much more likely to be affected by diseases like parkinson's, als, cancer. poor water quality is making our drinking water more and more expensive. our soils are in very poor condition and biodiversity is declining globally. what is the main cause of all these problems? the enormous use of agricultural poison. and that has to stop. millions of citizens and countless scientists are working with the animal party to advocate non-toxic farming. together, we can ensure that we start producing our food again in smart collaboration with nature, instead of continually spitting it out. together we can help our farmers make the transition to sustainable agriculture. together, we can force supermarkets to pay a fair price for healthy, non-toxic food. and together, we can put the toxic lobby of bayer, basf and other toxic manufacturers out of the way. that's how we turn the tide. that's how we keep the countryside and our world livable. and that's what we need. our future depends on it.
the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, has said that the protection of public health is a matter of food security. sustainable use of pesticides is essential for reducing impacts on human, environmental and animal health. let us not forget that there is only one health. the commission proposal is a good starting point, but we must not forget that the quality of our products depends on the training and support we can give our farmers. we must help them to embrace the transition, encourage research into pesticide-free agricultural production models and, above all, increase controls on the market, pesticide residues and products imported from third countries. we must fight unfair competition. we dare to do more. we are reforming the cap. putting the needs of small farmers and product controls first means investing in a quality future. in agriculture, the benefits will be many and for all.
- mrs. president, please. - i'm not going to lie. i am very much in favour of reducing pesticide use in the european people's party and i am pleased that european farmers have reduced their pesticide use by one third in the last five years. i therefore support the proposals of the committee on agriculture to achieve the target of a reduction of 50% by 2035 and thereby allow a normal transition for european farmers. but in countries where consumption is already very low, such as romania, it is right to lower targets and allow them to produce vegetables and fruit. i also support the member states' determination of sensitive areas themselves, not that we should determine in brussels that i do not know, that they will not produce tern in slovenia and kras, that there will be no apples in posova. let's leave that to the farmers. as farmers have already reduced their pesticide use with the transition to integrated farming, organic farming, precision farming, they will continue to do so in the future. we must ensure that farmers can continue to maintain food security for europeans, that we do not import food from abroad, and that farmers can survive on their farms.
- madam speaker, please. swedish farmers are among the best in the world when it comes to low use of plant protection products. it is done with caution, precision and knowledge. swedish farmers are the forerunners and for decades it has looked like this. we have been a pioneer not only in plant protection but also in animal welfare and antibiotics. and it's okay to be a forerunner, but it costs. competition forces are being affected by higher costs and domestic production is being outstripped by countries and imports with lower demands. with the proposal we are debating today, we are starting to change that. thanks to the centre party, there is an exception for those countries which have progressed and already have extremely low use of plant protection products. we are now demanding that all other eu countries do the same lesson as the swedish farmers have already done. with these requirements, we will ensure that the competitiveness of farmers who have already reduced their use of plant protection products is increased. it is right for nature, for food production and for the competitiveness of swedish farmers. (the speaker agreed to answer a question ('blue card'))
wait, can you hold on a second? there's a blue card from sara skyttedal for you. so, my colleague, shuttle, a half-minute.
the answer ( blue card). sara skyttedal, on the contrary, we are now protecting the competitiveness of the swedish farmers. the derogation negotiated by the centre party states that sweden should reduce the use of plant protection products by 15%, as opposed to the original proposal of 50 or 30%. the swedish farmers have already declined by 17%. this only means that the rest of europe must get on the track and do the same homework that the swedish farmers have already done. this is good for the competitiveness of swedish farmers who have already incurred large costs to reduce their use of plant protection products. it is a shame that kd and m do not support proposals that actually strengthen the competitiveness of swedish farmers.
i would like to ask the commissioner, mr president, if he is not going to vote on the report on the sustainable use of pesticides tomorrow. think of the 1.1 million of our citizens who have joined the european citizens' initiative to save bees and farmers and who are urging us to get rid of pesticides. if this alarm cries are not enough for you, think quickly about the environmental costs of pesticides, and they are the primary cause of our biodiversity decline, the primary cause of water pollution and the primary cause of the decline in soil fertility. if this inventory is not enough to convince you, i would like you to think about our farmers and farmers who are the first victims of these chemicals, against which no personal protective equipment protects them: parkinson's disease, prostate cancer, lymphatic cancer, leukemia. this is a real public health problem that we have the means to address. no, the profit of chemistry cannot kill lives and destroy families with impunity. tomorrow, this impunity may end. the victims, carers, the sick, the whole european union is looking at you. this report, by my colleague sarah wiener, whom i thank for her work, opens the way.
mrs president, commissioner, agricultural sustainability is crucial to ensuring our food sovereignty and the survival of farmers. and no one like them to protect the environment. but who protects them? farmers are constantly facing economic difficulties and significant losses in their crops and we are not stopping to put obstacles in their way, such as reducing plant protection products which, as they are undertaken, are nothing more than medicines for plants, without taking into account that this reduction can pose serious problems for their production. and that's not reasonable. the sectarian behaviour of so-called ecologists puts farmers' economic survival and food security at risk. but the great paradox is that at the same time we are opening our borders to third country production which does not, even by far, meet what we require of our producers. should strategies be developed to promote sustainable practices? of course you do. but without compromising the farmers' ability to maintain their livelihoods and produce the food necessary for society.
the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of animals and the environment. that is why the work of the committee on agriculture and of our rapporteur, clara aguilera, for whom i am grateful, has focused on finding the most ambitious balance between the essential sustainability objectives we have set ourselves as the european union and the equally essential need for our farmers to be accompanied in this transition. a work that has succeeded in overcoming ideological positions, achieving pragmatic results that make the goal of reducing plant protection products by 50% realistic, but only if this pathway is accompanied by a major innovation effort, with concrete alternatives to combating plant diseases, starting with new sustainable biotechnologies. the vote tomorrow will put us before a choice: we must leave aside political constraints and polarisation to reach a final text that really supports the environmental, social and economic sustainability of the agricultural sector and our rural areas.
the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. in the coronavirus pandemic, the russian attack on ukraine, we have become aware of the importance of a good self-sufficiency in quality food in the european union. and this is exactly what we need to be guiding tomorrow's vote on climate and biodiversity protection. i believe that the proposals of the committee on agriculture are the right way to reduce the number of farmers. a postponement to 2035 and in particular the protection of protected areas, prohibitions on protected areas, still needs to be changed significantly. the proposal of the environment committee is not a solution, it is a sham solution. i am also aware of the fact that the prime minister of my region, who is also a member of the green party, is also saying this. we must not punish the pioneering regions of europe those who have already done a particularly great deal. and you can see that there is more biodiversity in my home country, and that's what the latest ecological monitoring shows. we must go along with the agricultural policy, not the confrontation. and that will be the case in this vote tomorrow. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. that's exactly what it's about: reversing the burden of proof. the question is: first of all, must it be clear: are any animal or plant species particularly endangered by a particular active substance, a particular plant protection product, and not strictly prohibited? i would like to repeat once again that the exceptions which are then to be decided by the member states will politicise this debate, especially in those member states which have a particularly large number of protected areas. this includes my home country, germany, with one in six hectares affected. and that is why this is a danger to the countryside, in particular a practical ban on farmers working in these areas.
madam president, my fellow citizens, war is a reality that cannot be disputed. hunger is driving migration, and food prices are already at a level that is hardly accessible to consumers. today's discussions cannot be disconnected from these realities. the responsible use of pesticides must become a goal for all member states, but especially those with a high consumption rate above the eu average. we have countries with a consumption of over 8,000 grams per hectare, but we have countries that have understood the need for responsible use of these, like, for example, romania, which has a consumption of only 640 grams per hectare. if i look in the room, the most vocal meps come from the states with the highest pesticide consumption per hectare. wouldn't it be helpful for you to discuss in your own states, to reduce your pesticide use? because the obligation to reduce the percentage would not only be profoundly immoral, but would punish the states that were already responsible and would seriously and irreparably bring down the european agricultural sector. the result would be its bankruptcy, the closure of farms and the european union would be dependent on imports of food from third countries. do not forget that today 33 million european citizens do not ... (the president withdrew the speaker's speech)
thank you, madam vice president. i'm sorry, but i don't understand how such a law got in this room. this is unfair to countries where plant protection products are already used to a minimum. in estonia, 780 grams per hectare of plant protection products are used, in the netherlands 8 kilograms, and even if we reduce this by 50, 35 or 10 percent, it will be unfair to estonian farmers and will reduce their competitiveness. our raw-founder and great climate advocate frans timmermans, former vice president, back home in holland, has also agreed with the young dutch farmers that the use of nitrogen fuels must be opposed to farmers. good greens, good socialists, look at your examples and please vote against the injustice that is happening in this hall!
mr president, mrs commissioner, i thought you'd learned the lesson. i thought that after a pandemic, after a war and after an unprecedented drought, they would have reconsidered their positions. but it seems that the left in this parliament is still willing to destroy the productive capacity of the european countryside and of the spanish countryside. this proposal for a regulation, as it comes today from the commission on the environment, public health and food safety, can cause irreparable damage to the future of the european agri-food sector. we will not tolerate any arbitrary restrictions without even an impact assessment. we will not tolerate these restrictions being imposed without farmers having the option to protect their crops. we will not tolerate these restrictions being applied only to european farmers as long as products from third countries continue to enter our markets without any restrictions. we have learned the lesson and will vote tomorrow with our heads up, thinking about the food security of all europeans.
mr president, there is something fundamental that we must keep in mind when we are addressing this debate. a five-ton truck or a bus of sixty passengers are not big cars, no matter how much some people strive. the electrification of heavy-duty vehicles is therefore part of the solution, without any doubt, but it is by no means the only solution for this type of vehicle. the wide variety of trucks and buses on the market today also demands variety in the propulsion technologies available and alternative fuels are and should therefore be a valid option. the more industries and modes of transport are part of the future alternative fuel market, the better. the more interested biofuels are, whether for air, sea or land transport, the more and better the investments will be made in their production. and that is why strong demand is what is needed right now to develop a market that replaces oil and its derivatives. ladies and gentlemen, fuel producers are ready if the land sector needs it. we are not the ones who, from here, put sticks on the wheels (and never used this expression better).
the rapporteur. mr. president, we need to end the myth of the starving artist. cultural professionals do not choose to be in a precarious situation, but it is the result of poorly designed working conditions. we need to end so-called by-out contracts, which are against the copyright directive and our european copyright model. we must include social conditionality to ensure that not a single euro of european funding is allocated to those who do not respect social and minimum labour rights. and we also call on the european union to propose a directive on decent working conditions for cultural professionals.
madam president, i think the eu-new zealand free trade agreement will bring important benefits to the european union. the elimination of 100% of the tariffs is expected to save eu companies around eur 140 million a year and bilateral trade is expected to increase, with a potential growth of around eur 4.5 billion a year. this historic agreement also includes unprecedented commitments on sustainability, fundamental rights and gender rights, as has been well stated. but i would like to emphasize the importance of the special protection accorded to the many geographical indications of the european union. these concessions are the most generous of all the trade agreements of the european union and will benefit many, thousands of geographical indications. among them are almost 600 from my country, spain, as well as wines and other agri-food products: for example, manchego cheese, spanish saffron or the garlic from las pedroñeras. i therefore wish to congratulate you and call for the positive vote on this important agreement.
mr president, i believe that in the european union we have a problem with packaging waste which is addressed in this regulation and it is time. i think there's a good bargaining job, a good deal, that combines ambition and flexibility. i believe that as a society, and especially from the productive sectors, we must make efforts. first, to reduce the number of packages. let us assume, ladies and gentlemen, that there are too many unnecessary packaging and we must increase reuse. we have to increase recycling as well, we have to be able to recycle all the packaging. that's the step we have to take. finally, european citizens deserve to have more and better information. therefore, welcome the mandatory label to know how to dispose of each packaging. i used to mention ambition and flexibility. there were sectors that needed that flexibility, and they're going to have it - wine, ceramics, coffee, fruits and vegetables. and therefore i believe that this regulation will be good news for the european green pact and the european union when it is finally adopted.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality. mr president, madam vice-president, spanish presidency, the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality on the treaty reform, which you have been rapporteur for, which has been supported by a large majority, has been very clear and sets out three main points. the first is gender equality as a principle that should inspire the treaties. it must therefore be applied across the board to all policies and to the entire institutional architecture of the european union. the second is that sexual and reproductive rights must be respected. everyone should have the right to physical autonomy and to free, informed, full and universal access to sexual and reproductive health and rights. thirdly, parity must be a guiding principle in the treaties. it is important that the treaties allow us to move forward on gender equality and not limit us, because from this parliament we have to give a very clear message and effectively combat the setbacks we are experiencing in terms of gender equality. we believe that with the full participation of women a better european union will be achieved and the treaties must allow this.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, vice-presidents šefčovič and šuica, present, president-in-office of the council, i shall begin by thanking the five rapporteurs for this report. there are five speakers representing five political groups in this house - the democratic and pro-european groups - and five members of the federalist intergroup of altiero spinelli, and, not by chance, we see this important footprint for moving towards a more democratic and effective european union. and here it is important to thank the goodwill of the spanish presidency, as the secretary of state explained, to forward the report to the european council at its meeting on 12 december, as soon as we approve it tomorrow and transmit it quickly. i also hope that the spanish presidency will help us to put the report on the agenda on 15 december and that discussions between the member states on this proposal can now be opened. a proposal that is necessary because the world we live in today is totally different from that of 2007, when the lisbon treaty was adopted. at that time, there had not even been the 2008 financial crisis, the euro crisis, the arab spring, the first russian aggression against ukraine, the brexit, or the trump election in the united states. obviously, neither did the pandemic and the second ukrainian war. it's a totally different world. and when the world changes, europe has to change, reform and move forward. if that were not enough, we are also now faced with the relaunch of enlargement to ukraine, moldova, georgia and the western balkans. can we really go to a union? i also ask the council presidency (the commission has already suggested that we should not) with 36 vetoes in the council? with 36 commissioners? i know you're commissioners, but we're going to need a lot of imagination to design 36 different portfolios for 36 commissioners. and at the same time, we cannot solve all this within the current lisbon treaty. we have the gateways, and if they were opened up, parliament would of course be in favour, but we cannot solve the issue as a technical exercise without involving civil society, citizens and the european parliament in the framework of a convention. article 7 has been discussed. if we want to include the court of justice in article 7 as necessary because the question of the rule of law is existential, we need a treaty reform. no gateway clause will save us from that article 7 reform. and if we want to consolidate the recovery plan and the debt instrument which we must now make permanent, we cannot play in new battles with national constitutional courts nor will the gateways free us from doing that exercise. in short, with the vote tomorrow, we have a historic opportunity for parliament. we must remember that this report is intended to activate article 48, that is, the reform procedure, because we need to introduce amendments to the treaty for the european council to take into account the idea of convening the convention. it is not necessary to agree with all the amendments proposed. it is natural that there be one, two or three that one does not fully agree with. but that's not the point. the important thing is to vote to activate this reform process and move towards a more capable, more democratic and, in short, more federal european union.
i am not sure what the commission is doing. the last three words, which were the starting point of your speech, make me very clear in this house that we should treat each other with more respect. i would like to stress the importance of the commission's proposals for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. we are the representatives of the citizens, and i make no distinction between any person. we have different responsibilities and we are european legislators representing the citizens. this work is at the heart of european democracy and should not be underestimated, dismissive or disrespectful.
mr president, and friends, this debate comes at a very crucial time. therefore, it’s disappointing to me that the same old voices have decided to exploit it in order to advance their agenda of promoting qualified majority voting instead of unanimity in areas like taxation or foreign policy and defence. make no mistake about it, we in ireland are determined to keep our foreign and defence policy fully independent and neutral. president von der leyen’s recent actions in offering full support for israel launching an attack on the people of gaza is a crucial reminder why unanimity must be retained on foreign, security, and defence policy. friends, let us not use these debates and reports, such as the one before us, as power grabs in areas of national competence. let us use them to bring the eu closer to citizens, in order to make this house and other institutions more reflective of our towns, villages, cities and countries.
mr president, this proposal has required a lot of work by enthusiastic people of afco. and here we also hear the fierce, furious talks against any change. but what we really lack is the citizens’ interest on this. the conference of europe was a good try, but not everybody thinks that today launching a treaty process is the most urgent work for european politics to do. but we see that enlargement is taking place and it needs preparedness on both sides – among us as well. we need that the security can be enhanced. also, every eastern border country of ours, also estonia. europe’s voice in the world needs to be heard. so, i am worried of the many political struggles that we are having now: populism raising, nationalism raising, racism raising. debate is never bad, but what we need today is really a unity and not dividing us. i, coming from the small nordic country, deeply believe in the european values and a strong europe is needed. i work for it every day: for europe and for my country. i see there is a huge gap of preparedness. maybe also the lack of trust that possible treaty change is for better today in these conditions. so, i believe that we start also doing these step-by-step talks, sector by sector, how we will keep this europe strong and united.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report proposes to amend the european treaties in a federalist way. it thus draws the logical consequences of the principle of primacy, which i want to denounce today. the principle of primacy could be acceptable if it ensured the supremacy of european law over national laws only, but it also claims to be above national constitutions. this is what the court of justice of the european union has been trying to make believe since 1970, just five weeks after general de gaulle's death. but in my view, it is a betrayal of the most fundamental democratic principles. in a true democracy, the national constitution is the expression of the sovereignty of the people, so nothing can be superior to it in the hierarchy of norms. to claim otherwise is to replace democracy with an oligarchic regime. i personally do not want your supposedly enlightened despotism, and i remind you solemnly that the french people do not want it either. it proved this by rejecting in a referendum in 2005 the draft european constitution which sought to justify its force by invoking the principle of primacy. since you nevertheless persist in your plan to amend the treaties in an openly federalist way, i challenge you to organise national referendums on the issue.
mr president, the democratic legitimacy of the union needs to be increased and for this parliament, like all parliaments in the world, must have the right to legislate and act as co-legislator on the cfp. it is also essential to reverse the roles of parliament and the commission in the process of electing the commission's presidency in order to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of this institution and to transform it into a genuine european executive. this is also in the direction of more democracy. the commission has also adopted a number of proposals for a new tax system. only then can we build a real european tax system, which is absolutely essential today. and besides, we need more direct democracy. we must establish the european referendum, strengthen subsidiarity and take better account of regional parliaments with legislative powers. finally, the necessary enlargement towards the east will not be viable until we eliminate the requirement of unanimity in the decisions of the common foreign policy. the enlargement will only be possible if the unanimous rule is abolished. if the situation is already unsustainable with the 27 member states today, what will happen when we reach 33 or 35 without a reform of the treaties? this is the immobility that awaits us and, consequently, the decline of the union. the challenge is historic.
a uachtaráin, commissioner, two years ago, during the conference on the future of europe, eu citizens demanded comprehensive eu reform, with some of the most ambitious proposals requiring changes to the eu treaties. since the treaty of lisbon, much has changed in the world, and the eu has faced a multitude of crises: we had the financial crisis, the pandemic, the migration crisis, a growing climate emergency, the war in ukraine and now the conflict in israel and palestine. this begs the question of how to make the eu more efficient and strengthen its capacity to act, while also making the system more democratic. on the other hand, there is the question of enlargement, which is firmly back on the agenda and has become even more evident with the russian war against ukraine. the commitment to enlargement is a necessity, but it is also an opportunity to implement changes to make the eu enlargement-ready. since an eu with 20 plus member states will not function the same as 27 member states. ireland will clearly have difficulties with some of the proposals. we have a constitutional bar on participating in any decision to establish an eu defence union, and we are cautious about qualified-majority voting. nevertheless, we all can see how unashamedly and selfishly viktor orbán has exploited everything to do with unanimity voting, and this tool cannot continue. we need to use the full limits of what we can do within the treaties and/or by changing the treaties, if necessary.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the challenges facing the european union are a double-edged sword: the commission is not prepared to accept the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. the proposal we are about to vote on is the first step in bringing the council leaders to the discussion of the launch of a treaty reform convention. we need reforms now more than ever to strengthen the role of the european parliament and to overcome the veto mechanism in the council. we want, as in every democracy, citizens to have the opportunity to express themselves directly, and we want the union's competences to be expanded in key areas such as environmental protection, health, labour and social policies: the basic principle is a protocol for social progress. those who want a stronger and more united europe are sometimes considered utopians. i think that the negative is what those who want us to believe that the european states can still count on united individuals. we finally have some courage. i say this to our rulers: i would like to ask you to take courage and give europe the strength it needs.
mr president, commissioner, council representatives, ladies and gentlemen, calls for a united and strong europe, a union that meets the expectations of europeans, are constantly repeated in the european parliament, and rightly so. i see this as an obligation for all of us to take all the necessary decisions, including amendments to the eu treaties, to maintain smooth and effective decision-making, ensuring joint action versus a single one. in strengthening the eu competences in areas that affect europe’s future competitiveness, qualifications, defence, we must make due use of the democratic principle of subsidiarity and actively involve national parliaments as well. i am convinced that the proposed changes for amending the treaties will be duly debated in the agora of the eu citizens. listening to everyone and finding so-needed consensus.
mr president, the president-in-office of the council, the vice-presidents of the commission are not legitimate. that's why they wanted to pass it without debate, in secret, imposing their whim of rich, spoiled children. a reform of the treaties which ends national sovereignty, the freedom of the peoples and the equality of the member states by eliminating their guarantee, which is unanimity. when the middle and popular classes are suffering the devastating effects of unemployment and inflation, our borders are under the pressure of an immigrant invasion that threatens social peace and the productive sectors - from agriculture to the automobile - live in uncertainty and fear, you are drawing up and commingling the hell of a soviet, materialistic and planned europe from brussels, where nations will be the poor districts of the hunger games. do you really think that europeans will accept that the core of sovereignty, industry, the protection of external borders, education, health, foreign policy and security are handed over to bureaucrats? do you really think that farmers or ranchers will accept that all competition on environment, biodiversity and climate is in the hands of climate fans? you know i don't. but they just want to speed up because they know their time is up. on june 9th, everything is going to change. long live the europe of nations!
a uachtaráin, congratulations to colleague matthieu on a very fine report covering the essential aspects. one thing is very clear, as colleague matthieu said, we are not going to reach the targets of the green deal without a huge investment in job creation, particularly in relation to skills. if you talk to any business across europe right now, one of the biggest problems they have is recruiting. they do not have the people to take up the jobs that are lying idle. and in fairness to the commission, they recognise this because they have called this the year of skills, but unfortunately it is the worst possible year to have it, with elections coming up and then a new commission. so i think it needs to be extended by another year into the next commission’s term, so that we can do a proper analysis of the skills that are required, how are we going to translate that into young people, to make them aware of it, and to have proper educational and vocational training and, above all, status for every job – each human is equal and each job should be equally valued.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the parliament, i would like to start by warmly thanking the rapporteur, ms matthieu, and the empl committee for this report. we know that the transition can only succeed if it is just and benefits all persons, and if costs and efforts, as well as benefits, are shared fairly. i am glad to note that parliament and the commission once more see eye to eye in this. we particularly welcome the positive approach, as well as the key role of fairness in the transition towards climate neutrality, that frame the report and its conclusions. indeed, the green transformation is good news for the labour market, but we need to get it right and put in place the right accompanying policies, including upskilling and reskilling of the workforce, to make sure that all workers can benefit from the creation of quality new green jobs. negative jobs impacts are more felt in regions with a high share of extractive industries. we share the parliament’s view that the new jobs need to be of quality, with decent working conditions and good remuneration providing equal opportunities leading to increased access to the labour market. in the commission, we are working to ensure this. we recently finished a first review of how member states integrated these aspects in their policy frameworks as a follow-up to the council recommendations on ensuring a fair transition. the review has shown that while most member states take some action to address the challenges of the green transition using existing mechanisms and policies, there is a clear scope for improvement: first, a more systematic and coordinated employment and skills policy approach; second, a more comprehensive and systematic analysis of the socio-economic impacts of the green transition at national level; and third, better targeting of vulnerable groups and workers affected by the transition. in this context, and especially in light of the growing labour and skills shortages, i think we can all agree that this is a clear call for action. that is why we put forward various initiatives to promote adequate employment and training policies, including the european year of skills and skills-related provisions under climate policies that are mentioned in the report, such as the skills academies under the net-zero industry act. but we also believe that this needs to be a joint effort that requires action from all fronts. the involvement and contributions of social partners is key to ensure a fair transition. in this context, the european year of skills helps us to raise awareness and promote investments and reforms to support upskilling and reskilling at all levels. together with a common engagement by businesses, social partners and policymakers alike, we all concur that it cannot be a just transition without a whole-of-society approach, and i am glad to see that on this we are also in line with the parliament.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner johansson, at the european year of competences we are presenting here this report on the use of talent in the regions of europe. this is a report that addresses a reality that exists in many regions of europe and that means that, with young people better prepared than ever in history even in less developed areas of europe, they are forced to leave their land to develop their careers and, consequently, their vital development into more urban and developed areas. this is a reality we have debated at length during this legislature. we have analysed a multitude of data which provide us with many reports which have also been collected in this report on our own initiative. but, after all, it is as simple as knowing the reality on the ground and asking those affected: why do young people and not so young people leave their places of origin, especially those living in rural and sparsely populated environments? the most common answer is a lack of opportunity. in other cases, it is the lack of essential services, such as access to education, health care, childcare resources or older people. other reasons may be linked to the lack of connectivity of both terrestrial and digital networks. the lack of opportunities for the promotion of professional careers is also one of the reasons. knowing the motives, we're already slow to get to work. we have therefore gone to the heart and been direct in our demands to the commission and the member states. because we have to take both the demographic challenge and talent development seriously. the european strategy on the demographic challenge is one of the questions we ask ourselves in this report. when will the specific budgetary reserve for depopulation be set? when will the member states and the commission commit to ensuring access to basic and quality services for all citizens of the union? what about involving and listening to local and regional authorities in proposals? why not involve universities and research centres more in designing local economic development strategies? and what about the knowledge economy in rural areas? when will the social pillar and decent jobs be strengthened in rural areas? what answer will we offer to women who are, by the way, the first to leave the rural and depopulated areas as a result of the added difficulties they have with men? what are we waiting for in order to implement the measures of the european union's rural pact? with regard to the european commission's talent promotion mechanism and its related financial support, what criteria are used to classify the regions affected by the talent trap? it is a question we have asked repeatedly because it is a question we do not know. i think it's important to explain how this attention map is measured or quantified to the regions affected by the talent trap. we are working on all these proposals and many more in this report in which all the groups in this house have taken part. i therefore want to thank you very much for your wonderful contributions. we have done so from a positive, constructive, realistic and possibly vision, knowing that we have a young people who are more than prepared and who just need to take this great challenge seriously. the fact that rural areas represent 80% of the territory and 30% of the population is a major challenge. i think it is very important that we take this matter seriously by parliament, the european commission and the member states and i hope that it can be.
madam president, this is a very important topic, continuing on from our last topic, and i would like to compliment the rapporteur – very long name – colleague maestre martín de almagro – on a great job. but it reminds me of the bible and our lord speaking about the talents. one had the five talents, another had three, another had one. he was very happy with those who use their talents, but he nearly blew the head off the person who didn’t. so we have an obligation to encourage young people to find the talents that they have and to be able to utilise them. i know in my country the educational system is wrongly directed. at second level, if you get so many points, you qualify to be a vet; so many more points, you should become a doctor; so many more points, an accountant, etc. this is absolutely bunkum – nothing at all to do with their actual talents and what they are best suited to. so we really need to change that whole situation and help people to identify the talents they have and then give them jobs to utilise them and they’ll be happy ?.
thank you, madam president, the regions are a key territorial unit for the european union and i am very pleased that the rapporteur has found another important theme for these regions, and that is the use of young people's talents. we have a very broad policy or a very robust cohesion policy which supports the development of regions from european funds. we have a special strategy for the sub-mountain regions, but it turns out that it's important to find talent and quality of life for them in rural regions. it is not about finding them any job, which is basically what anyone can find in the eu today, but it is also about making that job match their skills to enable them to grow further and, of course, to use their private leisure time. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks of the use of the public transport system (the 'public transport system') is therefore essential. we need to have all these elements connected in the regions so that we can develop them for the benefit of young people.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, rapporteur ms maestre martín de almagro, the commission welcomes this report’s objectives. we have a common goal to support the regions with which face demographic and skill challenges. demographic change is high on the commission’s political agenda. we need a comprehensive strategic approach, combining reforms and investments, from the demography toolbox to the european skills agenda. and, of course, demography and skills are a key focus in the 2021-2027 cohesion policy programmes, with many regions facing demographic decline and talent development traps. we are especially conscious of the need to promote small towns in rural europe and to make all places attractive to live and work, especially for young families. nevertheless, we are well aware that some regions, especially rural areas, are particularly exposed to the twin impact of demographic decline and insufficient talent development. the harnessing talent communication, the first adopted in the european year of skills, proposed a talent boost mechanism with specific actions geared towards these challenges and the regions most confronted with them. progress in its implementation is already significant. first, the harnessing talent platform will be officially launched this week to provide guidance, information and knowledge tailored to regions facing demographic challenges. we launched the first call for technical assistance, a pilot for ten regions in a talent development trap, whose results will be announced this week, and a further call is planned next month for regions at risk of falling into such shortage of talent. the technical support instrument, the interregional innovation investments and the european urban initiative are also being mobilised to support regions in harnessing talent. we also set up four working groups to exchange experiences and disseminate good practices focusing on health, digital research and innovation, as well as territorial aspects. the talent booster mechanism is complemented by other initiatives, such as the rural revitalisation platform for rural areas facing demographic challenges. your report, rapporteur, is timely and your proposals will feed into the debate on the future of cohesion policy post 2027. engagement at all levels is needed, and we count on your continuous support.
madam president, i vote in support of this proposal, as it directly delivers on the key priority of the european green deal: sustainable consumption. the introduction of common rules promoting the repair of goods is a proactive step towards the eu’s transition to a circular economy. often, when the product malfunctions, the default and seemingly convenient choice is to dispose of it, contributing to the unnecessary depletion of resources. the right to repair, as outlined in this proposal, expands consumer options by ensuring legal guarantees to repair products. it also facilitates easier and more affordable repairs for goods that are technically fixable, even after the legal guarantee has expired – due to wear and tear – thus extending the product lifespan. in addition, this proposal highlights the importance of making spare parts available to independent repairers and end users at reasonable costs. it strikes a balance between protecting trade secrets while ensuring that producers cannot employ techniques to impede independent repairs.
the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment. it complements the existing responsibility of the manufacturer for product defects and is essentially intended to extend the life cycle of products placed on the market by different manufacturers in a number of areas. it will be a relatively unfortunate thing that only the part mentioned in the annex is explicitly mentioned in that annex, but i think it is a good start that we have categories of products where their reliability will be actually achievable. we also support the circular economy and the availability of parts or spare parts is really key to actually allowing repair of a product where only a small part will stop working and you don't have to throw it away. so i welcome the introduction of this right.
a uachtaráin, i voted in favour of the net-zero industry act, as it stands as a crucial legislative measure actively addressing the escalating impacts of climate change. the proposal’s core objective is to bolster european manufacturing capacity for net-zero technologies, addressing barriers that hinder scalability in europe while enhancing the eu’s energy resilience. i particularly support the act’s streamlining and strengthening of the permitting process, with quicker approval for both regular and strategic projects. this is something i have highlighted for some time. this approach enhances the act’s effectiveness and efficiency in promoting sustainable and innovative projects. as the epp rapporteur in the trade committee, i call for strong international cooperation and the pursuit of new trade partnerships with like-minded nations. in addition to this, the act addresses the crucial aspect of carbon capture and storage by setting a target for annual co2 storage capacity, further emphasising the commitment to reducing carbon emissions and promoting sustainable processes. overall, a step in the right direction.
a uachtaráin, i supported the carbon removal certification framework proposal that aims to establish an effective certification system for carbon removal and sequestration from the atmosphere. in the itre committee, as the epp rapporteur, i was strongly in favour of ensuring carbon farming would be eligible – an all-stick-no-carrot approach with the result if not including carbon farming. this, in my view, would not be fair to farmers all across europe, who are trying to make their practices more sustainable, essentially incentivise rather than dictate. the main goal of this proposal is to encourage businesses with high emissions to adopt techniques and technologies for carbon removal. this is set to happen through the voluntary use of certificates, specifically designed certificates, that act as a proof of high-quality carbon removal. these certificates can be sold, creating new income opportunity for those in agriculture, forestry and industry, fostering a shift towards a more eco-friendly landscape. the aim of the certification framework is to support innovative carbon removal technologies and sustainable carbon farming solutions, while also cracking down on greenwashing, which i of course support.
madam president, i supported this draft report because it is important to note that the heavy-duty vehicle sector is responsible for more than a quarter of the greenhouse gas emissions from road transport in the european union and in fact more than 6% of the total greenhouse gas emissions in the european union. the proposal has three objectives: first, it aims to reduce co2 emissions in a cost-effective way for heavy-duty vehicles, in line with the european union's objective. secondly, it aims to ensure benefits for european transport operators and users, most of whom are smes, by introducing more energy efficient technologies in vehicles. and third, to strengthen the european union's industrial leadership in terms of the use and innovation of these technologies by directing those investments into zero-emission technologies. for all these reasons, i supported this proposal.
madam president, despite an overall downward trend in eu greenhouse gas emissions, the greenhouse gas emissions from the road sector have been on the rise in the eu and it is now responsible for a fifth of the emissions. heavy-duty vehicles are responsible for 28% of all emissions from the road sector, despite accounting for 2% of the fleet. while this proposal regulates performance of hdvs, a good result will not only benefit the climate, but also be an important step in improving air quality, as the most problematic pollutants – for example nitrous oxide, carbon monoxide, particle measure – come from tailpipe emissions. transitioning to electric vehicles will have a huge impact on the air quality. and while this is fantastic, and while we need to change and we need to change how we transport our goods, ultimately we have got to reduce the amount of goods that we transport, because otherwise we’re changing technologies to continue to delude ourselves. we need shorter food chains, we need local produce. this year we need santa claus to give second hand toys, because at this stage, if we never produced another toy in the world, i’d say there would be more than enough. give second hand, that will mean less trucks.
madam president, today we have approved the mandate of the european parliament for this very important climate conference. i support this resolution because the conference meeting in dubai in december will be key to assessing whether the activities and actions and commitments of individual states so far are realistic in achieving the common objective of the paris climate agreement, namely not to exceed 2°c of temperature growth compared to the preindustrial era. it seems that the ambitions of the signatories to this agreement, which are the vast majority of the world's countries, are not enough and the conference will therefore be key to increasing those ambitions. the european parliament's proposal for an amendment from our committee on the environment, public health and food safety is certainly ambitious. i supported him, and i supported the extension of those mandates. if our commitments are not to remain on paper again, then we must act, and i am glad we have approved a very strong mandate.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report because, i suppose, how could you not? it calls for universal, high-quality public service provision such as education, healthcare, transportation, school activities and healthy nutrition at school. it calls to protect children and their families in the eu at risk of poverty, particularly in times of crisis. it calls for an increase in the public and universal supply of crèche and pre-school education services. how could you not vote for this? i notice an awful lot of people didn’t vote for it, and i have to say, i wonder what’s going on in their heads. but i’ve also noticed other meps here who have voted for it. meps from ireland voted in favour of this – people who are in government who can change this. in ireland in 2022, 188 602 children lived in households that were below the poverty line and 247 574 children were living in households experiencing deprivation. ireland is, by any standards, a rich country. members from ireland voted for this. instead of coming in here voting for this, can you change what you do at home? because it’s not going to change it here.
before we enter into the debate, we have to make some communications on the decisions of several committees on the opening of interinstitutional negotiations under rule 71 (1) of the rules of procedure, which were announced at the opening of the meeting on monday 20 november. the president received a request from the ecr group and other members reaching at least the middle threshold for a vote on the decision to open negotiations on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on standards for equal treatment and equal opportunities for women and men in matters of employment and employment, adopted by the empl and femm committees in the joint committee procedure. the vote will take place on thursday 23 november 2023. the president has not received any requests for a vote in parliament on the other decisions on opening negotiations from members or one or more groups which at least reach the middle threshold. the committees can therefore open the negotiations.
in accordance with rule 158 (2) of the rules of procedure, i would like to inform you that the order of tomorrow's vote will be changed on a proposal from the president and with the agreement of the groups. the vote on the 2022 petition committee's deliberations, currently scheduled as a final item, will take place after the vote on the digitalisation of cross-border judicial cooperation (amending certain directives and framework decisions). i would ask you to take note of these communications.
the next item on the agenda is the discussion of the council and commission statements on the humanitarian situation in gaza, the need for the release of the hostages and an immediate humanitarian ceasefire leading to a ceasefire, and the prospects for peace and security in the middle east (2023/2983 (rsp)).
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on behalf of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner lenarčič, i have just returned from a five-day mission to the middle east countries - the arab countries, israel and palestine - and i have felt the intense excitement with which events are taking place there. it should be possible to carry out the debate on what is happening beyond emotion and with a view to building peace. it is true that on 7 october the world witnessed the greatest massacre, the greatest pogrom of jews committed after world war ii, and that it also saw the subsequent bombing of gaza, which the united nations calls an unprecedented humanitarian catastrophe. but it is not a natural disaster, not an earthquake or a flood, but a man-made disaster as a result of a blockade that prevents the basic goods for the livelihood of the population from arriving. the united nations itself calls it a massacre. it should be possible to recognize israel's right to defend itself and at the same time to be indignant at what is happening to civilians in gaza and the west bank. it should be possible to defend the palestinian right to a state without it implying being labeled as anti-semitic. it should be possible to criticize the policy of the government of israel because the governments of any country can be criticized without one being accused of wanting to harm the jews. let us not confuse things: it is one thing to criticize the government of a country and another to reject a part of the population. but i also say that demonstrations that present the ugly face of anti-semitism do not help the palestinian cause: on the contrary. at this moment, the international criminal court has already begun investigations to find out what is happening there. his attorney general, karim khan, with whom i have been in contact, has issued grave warnings to all parties, noting that israel also has clear obligations regarding the war it is waging against hamas, which are not only moral obligations but also legal obligations arising from the law of armed conflict and affecting the access of the population to basic goods for their livelihood. and that every school, every hospital, every church, every mosque, are protected places and unless they lose this status of protected place as a result of their use for military purposes, they must be respected. if there is any doubt as to whether or not that territory or property has lost its protected status, the attacker must assume that it is still protected, must provide proof that it has lost its protected status and must facilitate the exit of civilians trapped there. in the same way, indiscriminate rocket attacks from gaza against israel are also violations of international humanitarian law. i was one of the first to say that preventing access to water, electricity and basic goods was a violation of international humanitarian law. and the prosecutor of the international criminal court says it, i'm not saying it, has strongly warned israel of the need to make visible efforts without further delay to allow the delivery of food, medicine and anesthetics to civilians. the european union is very concerned about what is happening. and, very specifically, we have protested against the attacks by israeli settlers on palestinian civilians in the west bank, which continue to increase. the prosecutor of the international criminal court has also referred to this. you know that i represent the council and therefore all the member states. they also know that this is not easy because at times member states have not been aligned in the same position. as in the vote at the un general assembly, for example, where eight voted for a humanitarian pause, four voted against and the others abstained. there is a common position of the european council that it does support pauses and humanitarian corridors and calls on israel, when exercising its right to defence, to do so in accordance with humanitarian law and international law governing war. but so far there have been various statements by different european leaders about how this right to defend israel is being exercised and, where there is no common position, the high representative cannot represent it. he can't represent it, but he's got to keep working to build it. it must continue to work to enable member states to converge in a position that will enable them to be a geopolitical force in this conflict. and that's what we're trying to do. with the conviction that there will be no military solution to this conflict, that an idea cannot be killed, that the only way is to have a better idea. and the best idea can only be to recognize that two peoples who have been fighting for over a hundred years for the same land must and can live together if the international community commits to it. and we haven't done that yet. we have been saying for 30 years since the oslo accords that the solution is the two states, the solution is the two states, the solution is the two states... but we've done little or nothing to get it done. we have believed that the problem can be encapsulated and that we can forget about the palestinians, since the arab states were already making peace with israel. and the drama that has exploded shows us that's not enough. we must also make peace between israel and palestine. and to make peace between israel and palestine it will be necessary that all - and in particular us europeans - commit ourselves to overcoming the enormous pain caused by the events initiated by hamas' terrorist attack on the border kibbutz in gaza. this may be an occasion for peace to be built. and that is what the european union wants. we have made proposals. the three no gaza cannot remain under hamas control, cannot be occupied by israel again, cannot be divided and the three yes: a palestinian authority has to return to gaza, arab states have to commit (and not just finance reconstruction) and europeans also have to be an active part of a solution. a solution that can only come through an agreement that allows what we have been demanding for years: the coexistence of two opposing peoples who must be able to share the same land and the same peace.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, distinguished high representative borrell, let me from the outset reiterate in the strongest terms our condemnation of the heinous attack by hamas and israel last month, and underline that israel has the right to defend itself while respecting international law, in particular international humanitarian law. also, as stated by president von der leyen earlier today, we wholeheartedly welcome the agreement reached on the release of the 50 hostages and on a pause of hostilities. we stress, at the same time, the urgent need for all hostages to be released immediately, and we will work with our humanitarian partners to use the pause for the humanitarian surge in gaza. allow me to focus on three issues in my intervention. the humanitarian situation in gaza, including the question of access into gaza, the european union’s humanitarian response, and the outlook beyond the immediate humanitarian crisis. first, on the humanitarian situation in gaza. there has been no let-up in the intense bombardment and fighting in gaza. casualty rates remain very high. at least 12,700 palestinians are reported killed, including a very high proportion of women and children. 1.7 million people are displaced within gaza. thousands are currently on the move. we are seeing ongoing attacks on and fighting around medical facilities, which are protected under the international humanitarian law. there is an acute shortage across gaza of all the most basic necessities: food, medicines, including anaesthetics, water. according to the united nations, food assistance currently covers only 10% of the minimum caloric intake. medical facilities are either on the brink of collapse or have already shut down. only 9 out of 35 hospitals in gaza are reportedly still functioning, and this only partially. the toll on the united nations and on aid and medical workers in gaza has been appalling. at least 108 staff members of unrwa alone have been killed since the beginning of this crisis. humanitarian access into gaza remains extremely challenging. over the last month, fewer than 50 trucks a day, on average, have been going into gaza through the rafah crossing from egypt. this is woefully inadequate. and for several days last week, not a single truck was able to get in. the acute shortage of fuel in gaza remains a major constraint. the agreement on 18 november by israel to allow 120,000 litres of fuel for humanitarian operations is a step in the right direction, but will only cover one third of the daily critical needs. without fuel, trucks cannot move and humanitarian actors cannot operate. fuel is vital for hospitals for clean water. it is needed for the treatment of sewage to avert the looming public health crisis, and for mobile networks, without which no humanitarian assistance can be delivered inside gaza. the amount of fuel available to humanitarian actors in any humanitarian crisis should depend on their needs, and needs alone. second, on eu response, as president von der leyen announced we have quadrupled our humanitarian funding for the occupied palestinian territory to more than eur 100 million. this is being rolled out as we speak, supporting our accredited partners on the ground: the united nations, the red cross and red crescent, and international non-governmental organisations. they are distributing food and water, maintaining emergency medical services where possible, helping with mass casualty management, ensuring basic hygiene and so on. and we are continuously ramping up our european in-kind response. there have already been 15 eu humanitarian air bridge flights so far for gaza, and more are in the pipeline. these are cargo flights for our humanitarian partners and for our member states. president von der leyen was on the ground in el-arish last weekend during the unloading of one of our flights. most of the cargo from these flights has already gone into gaza. we have, moreover, established a joint coordination cell with the red cross and red crescent to organise and channel our assistance. in parallel, we are helping the egyptian red crescent to further build up its logistical capacity and through the union civil protection mechanism, we are supporting egypt’s frontline medical response. the key challenge to repeat is access – access for humanitarian assistance into gaza. in the first instance, this means allowing a sufficient number of trucks into gaza through rafah and, if possible, opening another land crossing. but we should also explore all other possible avenues for allowing additional assistance into gaza. ensuring adequate humanitarian access will also require putting in place urgent and extended humanitarian pauses throughout gaza and for a sufficient number of days, as called for last week by the united nations security council in its resolution 2712, which was facilitated by malta. we hope that the agreement on a pause of hostilities that has just been reached will allow for a substantial surge in humanitarian aid delivery into and within gaza, and we certainly hope that this will not be a one-off. third, on the prospects for gaza and the broader israeli-palestinian conflict. high representative, we spoke about that already. even as we respond to the immediate humanitarian challenges and do everything we can to promote respect for international humanitarian law, we need a step change in efforts to put work on a political solution to the conflict back on track. this means reinvigorating and accelerating efforts that have long been stalled towards a two state solution, as the only way forward that can offer hope to both palestinians and israelis. more specifically, this will require working towards a solution for gaza as an integral part of a solution to the broader israeli-palestinian issue. preventing any forcible displacement of palestinians out of gaza. preventing any return of hamas to gaza, as well as any long term israeli security presence in gaza. urgently de-escalating the situation in the west bank, and in particular stopping the extremist settler violence, which has increased dramatically in recent weeks. and supporting a legitimate palestinian authority in administering gaza. there is no alternative to engaging now, if we are to break the spiral of violence, restore hope to people in palestine and israel, and prevent broader instability in the middle east.
president. - we have been awakened this morning with the best news of the week. there is finally a temporary ceasefire and 50 hostages are being released. let this be the beginning of a lasting ceasefire and the release of all hostages from this conflict, which has been dragging on for far too long. because it's a real humanitarian nightmare, the biggest murder of jews since world war ii. bombings on schools and hospitals, two million people in gaza looking for water, food, medicine, safety. and then the hostages. hell on earth, i call it. and that hell on earth, it must stop now. mr borrell, you have clearly delivered the message in the region and i found you stronger today than ever in your statements here on this conflict. i want to thank you very much for that. this is a europe i like to see. in contrast to the cacophony we saw at the beginning of the conflict, i am very pleased with the strength you have shown today. i am also very proud of the visit of the belgian prime minister de croo and his colleague sanchez to the region today. it shows me that i am a proud belgian, that a small country can be great, because belgium has played its part, unlike some other european countries that have depended on friendship or fear in the past. i think that this is also a wake-up call for europe and i look to the commission, because it is actually a sign of our political failure. for years and days you have said it, for 30 years i think we have advocated a two-state solution. but we never did anything to bring that two-state solution closer. europe has not played a significant role in this either, and we should look at the united states and qatar. president. - the next item is the report (doc. as chief negotiator, i want to make my point here too. we believe that europe must be reformed. if we really want to be a geopolitical power, i hope that you will soon vote for the report by mr verhofstadt, that europe is being reformed and that we can play a meaningful role in conflicts like this.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. mr president, today we see a small ray of light after almost fifty days in the darkness of war and death. we welcome the four-day truce with the exchange of hostages and prisoners. it's a step in the right direction, but it's not enough. we need a permanent ceasefire, the release of all hostages and the multiplication of humanitarian aid. after the heinous acts of hamas on october 7, israel had to respond. but israel's military response to hamas did not have to turn into a war against the palestinians in gaza. the reality is that this is an indiscriminate and disproportionate response to the result that one in every two hundred inhabitants in the gaza strip has been killed, mostly innocent civilians, many of them children. this conflict, in relation to its duration, has already become the deadliest conflict for children in recent decades. international law and international humanitarian law impose rules that must be respected even in cases of genuine human bankruptcy, as all wars are. when the arms have been quieted, beyond reconstruction, someone will have to repair the deep wounds of this horrible war, but also of this endless conflict between israelis and palestinians that, among others, we have left to unfold. we have already seen where conflict management has led us, which some believed was the solution. there is no level of violence that is manageable forever, because instigated conflicts always end up exploding. we must think of the day after, in a gaza without hamas, but also without occupation and without blockade, and with a legitimate and effective palestinian government that the people can feel like theirs. the postwar solution to gaza cannot be separated from the solution to the entire occupied palestinian territories, nor from the security guarantees for israel.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, golda meir said that the war in palestine, in israel, would end when the palestinians love their children more than they hate the jews. that hasn't happened yet. we're a long way from that. we must also say that we have collaborated in this, because we are funding books in the palestinian territories that only encourage hatred of israel and that systematically promote the whole culture of terrorism. in gaza, what happened on october 7 was celebrated with enthusiasm, and in the territories controlled by the palestinian authority, it was also celebrated with enthusiasm. the palestinian authority, which is here presenting itself as great in front of hamas, is also the one that continues to reward terrorists for killing jews. in that sense, israel has the right to end this war by ending hamas forever, with that threat. and here it seems that some don't want that to happen. it's going to happen and lament all the deaths, lament all the misfortunes we hope it ends, it has to end, with those guarantees that israel will give itself because we don't give them to it.
mr president, vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, this parliament refused last monday not to call for a ceasefire, but even to debate it. 14 128 people were killed by israel in the gaza strip, of whom 5 840 children, 3 920 women and 6 000 people buried under the rubble of the gaza strip. in the first three weeks of this genocide alone, more children have died in the gaza strip than in all of 2022 in all the conflicts in the world. how many palestinian children have to die killed under israeli bombs before this european parliament and the european union call for a ceasefire? if we talk about hostages, we ask that the 240 israelis held by palestine and the 7,400 palestinians held in israeli jails be released. or are the hostages only hurt on one side? of those 7,400, 880 are boys and girls. if you really want peace, listen to our people. our people are on the streets demanding what we refuse to demand: first, a ceasefire. a ceasefire, not a humanitarian pause. a final ceasefire. a fair ceasefire. second, let us take action beyond words. that we take action to end the occupation. let us not say more that we are deeply concerned and we must make decisions that pressure the occupant to end the occupation. and third, join the initiative to bring netanyahu and all those responsible and complicit in this genocide before the international criminal court.
mr president, mr borrell, i would like to thank you for your impeccable political position, but also for your moral position in the difficult management of such a poisoned conflict. i regret that the commission (which started off badly) has today, after the damage done to the european union by the commissioner várhelyi's initial position, only described the situation without laying down any political responsibility for what is happening. mr borrell, i would like to warn you and my colleagues of the enormous risk we face from the allegations from the global south that the union is acting with double standards in its judgments on the many recent conflicts. some accusations are right and others are not, but the risk of the definitive disarmament of our soft power is present. we, who are so exhibiting our principles and values, cannot offer the world a dangerous image of moral incoherence, judging conflicts or military operations across international borders differently with preventive excuses. for this house, respect for international law is our compass, without preference or exception. and we're hurt no matter if the children are israeli or palestinian.
mr othmar karas, high representative and vice-president josep borrell and commissioner janez lenarčič, i think we should congratulate the high representative on his visit to the middle east countries, which i think has been very helpful in making the european position clear. i think it is positive that it is also made clear by the european union that we are against hamas taking control of the gaza strip. and we must talk about the future of the gaza strip, and i think that debate must also be put on the table: the idea that josep borrell has pointed out that the palestinian authority should take over the gaza strip with the support of the arab league, the united nations, and that, as he has also said, the peace process and the two-state solution should be resumed. i also urge the european union to take into account the possibility of working to put forward a european peace proposal, as the united states has done at other times. i think that could also add value to the peace process on the part of the european union.
madam president, the european union must not forget that entrepreneurship needs funding, friendly and secure standards and protection against default and late payments. in this connection, i convey two messages from the european small and medium-sized enterprises assembly which we held last week in bilbao. people and technology are the keys to our competitiveness and strategic independence in the global world. predictive vocational training and more funding for the strategic technologies platform for europe (step) are the basis of our industrial and productive sovereignty. digitisation that promotes the recovery and resilience plan improves our competitiveness and should reduce the administrative and management burdens of our smes. the implementation of the oots platform (technical system only once) before the end of the year is our proposal to avoid duplication and simplify procedures.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, madam minister, if you allow me to start to respond to our first speaker, who proposed also to have this topical debate this afternoon, to mr ferber, because i think he opened a very important political but also philosophical aspect of our cooperation: what is the role of the of the legislation? and i would like to reassure the honourable member that we in the european commission see the primary role of the legislation as a measure and an instrument to bring more benefits than costs. we are always proposing legislative measures when they are bringing much better end results than the potential costs. and, as we have been also reminded by several honourable members who intervened, like ms ballarín cereza or mr heinäluoma, i think through this modern and progressive legislation we actually built the european union, which is socially just, which is environmentally friendly and through which we became champion in tackling climate change. i think this is what we should be absolutely proud of. thanks to the so-called brussels effect, we became a true global trendsetter and global standard-shaper. and after having said all this, i also would like to reassure mr ferber, but also ms virkkunen and many other speakers, that we take the problem of administrative burden very, very seriously. if you look at our reporting and our efforts, just after one year of full operation of ‘one in, one out’, we brought to you the savings of more than eur 7 billion – in one year. so i think this is really worth remarking, and i would like to underscore that this is a really important result. since the president of the commission announced the very laser-focused approach to cutting the reporting obligations, and we are really working very hard on that since march, we brought indeed the measures saving additional eur 3 billion. i would like to underline that we achieved that not through deregulation, not through legislative moratorium, but by changing legislative culture in the commission. we are very much focused from the first moment, when our experts start to draft the legislation, to look at the costs. what would be the reporting obligations? how can we make this more user-friendly? we are introducing at every level of assessing the legislative proposal, the competitiveness checks. what would be the smes impact? how can we make sure that this proposal will pass the sme test, which i know is very important for many honourable members in this house? and, of course, we have been discussed with you on many occasions – and i saw ms melchior here in the room – how to make 100% sure that our legislation would be digital by default. and we would use at every possible occasion the ‘once only’ principle – that once you share your data with the public institutions it is there, and the entrepreneur or the common citizen should not be asked another time to provide the same information. but in other cases, we had to legislate actually to cut the burden. just to give you two examples, which i referred to in my introductory remarks, we would not be able to bring you these billions of savings if we did not introduce the legislative proposals for vat in the digital age, or to change the union custom code, which makes it much easier, which makes it digital and which makes it uniform across the eu member states. so what i think is very important, and i very much appreciate the focus of this afternoon’s debate, is that we need to see the cutting of the red tape as a as a joint task. i am very obliged to mr repasi, who reminded us about the waves of amendments coming to the european parliament, but also coming to the council, and you know that these are our ongoing discussions that, unfortunately, they are coming in such a pace that we are not able to do the impact assessment of these amendments and very often we in the commission are surprised how our proposal is actually changed in the course of the legislative process. and we respect that it is your right, we should do that, but we should also – and that is our ongoing plea – once we propose significant amendments, the european parliament, the council, should also be able to provide with the impact assessment what it means in the end for the outcome and final legislation. and on the last point, if we allow, because it was repeated several times in the discussion, it is also very important to work very closely with other member states. and i think ms hahn presented very good examples of how very often even the very good legislation from the member states is either not properly implemented or so much gold plated that it really increases the administrative burden. so i very much appreciate that we have also the presidency with us, because it is indeed a common task: european parliament, council, commission, and the implementation on the regional and national level would be very important. the last point, madam president, a very concrete point, which we are, of course, happy to provide more detailed information to mr ferber and mr hoogeveen on the corporate sustainable reporting directive. we have been doing our utmost and we wanted to have the best possible advice, so we have been working with the european financial advisory board to help us to streamline the european sustainable standards. so this is done. we are, of course, measuring the impact and we will be coming back to you with a proper reporting on how this falls and how this is reported under the ‘one in, one out’ rule. next year, we will be presenting the next annual burden survey. so once again, madam president, thank you very much for this debate, and thank you very much for creating this opportunity to underline that this is our common task, and we, from the european commission, will take it and are taking it very, very seriously.
president-in-office of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, most of the efforts in recent months have been focused on policies aimed at achieving europe's objectives, drawing on the creativity and energy of the private sector. in the end, it will be our companies, our researchers and our researchers, and our citizens and our citizens who make the ecological and digital transitions possible, while ensuring european strategic autonomy and the resilience of our supply chains. to this end, we must ensure that all our actions are directed towards promoting entrepreneurship and competitiveness with the appropriate incentives and measures. today, here we have focused on our common objective of reducing the administrative burden on businesses and it has become clear that as co-legislators we must contribute to ensuring that new legislation has the right balance between information requirements and the need to reduce red tape. the commission's proposals in this regard are, as i said at the beginning, a good starting point. it is now up to the council and parliament to show that they will be up to the challenge in terms of speed and ambition. we must not forget that what we decide in the coming months will have a direct impact on the business environment. we must respond appropriately to the expectations and demands of our citizens who want public administration to be efficient and supports it.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the threat to the rule of law as a consequence of the governmental agreement in spain (2023/2992(rsp)). before i give the floor to the secretary of state for foreign and global affairs, i would like to remind all members participating in the debate – i think we are all expecting a quite lively debate – to respect the standards of conduct. you have all signed the code of conduct, and i really would like to remind you to respect the speaking time and the dignity and the reputation of the european parliament.
president-in-office of the council. the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, would like to stress at the outset that the rule of law is at the heart of our political action, since our union is not simply a single market but a community of values. these values are threatened in a geopolitical environment that seems increasingly hostile. our union can only thrive if all of us - the member states and institutions of the european union - remain united in protecting and strengthening these values. it is worth recalling from the outset that i am speaking here today as president of the council of the union. i am sure that you will understand the limitations of my intervention, particularly in a debate on spanish internal policy. i think it is appropriate to stress that there is hardly any precedent for organising a debate in this institution on a national law which has not been passed in the parliament of a member state. in the past, spain has passed amnesty laws. similarly, other member states have passed similar laws without a debate in this house. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. i am also pleased to say that the text of the proposal already expressly protects european standards and values. if the spanish parliament decides to approve this law, it will be subject to the control of the constitutional court of spain, whose members have been appointed in accordance with constitutional precepts that have been in force for several decades. and in that case, the law will be enforced by the competent judges. a thorough debate on an unapproved text of national competence alone does not contribute to improving european democracy. on the contrary, it shows worrying trends. the focus of the debate on national issues undermines the debate on european policies, values and interests, something contrary to the nature and objectives of the community institutions. the comparison of a perfectly normal initiative in the member states, such as amnesty, with other procedures which were clearly exceptional from the point of view of the rule of law is confusing. the use of a broad consensus such as the defence of the rule of law in the european union, with sound procedures and almost unanimous majorities, can ultimately undermine initiatives in defence of these values. we therefore believe that, in the interests of european values and the common defence of the rule of law, it is necessary to give each debate an appropriate dimension. i would like to continue my work in the council on the rule of law as president of the council, which has been a priority throughout the spanish presidency's term of office at every meeting of the general affairs council since last july, since at least one rule of law item was on the agenda. two sessions of the council dialogue on the rule of law were held based on the commission's report on the subject. in september, a horizontal debate enabled ministers to cover the broad trends in the union. and in october a specific country-by-country debate focused on the situation in denmark, germany, estonia, ireland and greece. in addition, we have devoted considerable energy to evaluating the dialogue itself four years after the last review in 2019. we now aim to incorporate into the council conclusions the current reinforced approach of the council's dialogue on the rule of law, which i can only say is a truly positive experience. at the same time, we reaffirmed the council's commitment to carrying out the procedures under article 7 (1) of the treaty on european union. these were discussed last week at the general affairs council. this has allowed the council to receive from the commission a precise and updated picture of the situation on the ground in the countries covered by the procedures referred to in that article, especially as regards recent legislative reforms and political developments. i would also like to take this opportunity to say that spain, as a member state, has always been fully committed to the core elements of the rule of law in our union, especially the separation of powers and the independence of the judiciary. the successive spanish governments have unconditionally supported the union's increased participation in matters relating to the rule of law. our cooperation and dialogue with the commission in this area are unreserved. this includes, from 2020, the preparation of the annual report on the rule of law, which provides us all with a detailed snapshot of the situation in this area across the union and in each member state. we take very seriously the recommendations and concerns expressed by the commission in its state of the law report 2023 and are actively working to address them. in the next six months, spain will be one of the member states to participate for the second time, starting in 2020, in the country-specific debate within the framework of the council's dialogue on the rule of law. as always, we look forward to it and will participate constructively and with an open mind. we welcome this opportunity to review and discuss in depth the main elements of the rule of law in spain.
member of the commission. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. i am here today to debate the situation of the rule of law in spain, and we must, as you know, protect democracy and the rule of law in the european union as a whole more than ever. the commission has stepped up its efforts in this regard and the annual report on the rule of law plays, as you know, a central role in this area. in july the commission published the fourth edition of the report, which includes an assessment of the specific recommendations addressed to all member states. we had first made recommendations in 2022, so we made an assessment of their implementation in the 2023 report. i would like to elaborate on our recommendations on the rule of law in spain and also to address some recent developments. in relation to the spanish justice system the 2023 rule of law report highlights that the situation of the council for the judiciary raises serious concerns as, firstly, the council has not been renewed despite the urgency and secondly, no steps have been taken to adapt the appointment procedure for its judge members. moreover, the lack of renewal is having an impact on the work of the supreme court and the justice system as a whole, raising concerns regarding the number of cases decided by the supreme court and its length of proceedings. we continue to call on all parties involved to take the necessary actions for the successful implementation of the recommendation made in 2022 and in the 2023 report. the commission also noted that concerns remain because the terms of office of the prosecutor general and the government coincide. the commission has reiterated its recommendation to strengthen the statute of the prosecutor general, in particular with regard to avoiding such coincidence of terms of office. the report also referred to the incompatibilities regime for judges with other professions, such as political appointments. in particular, the lack of cooling-off periods for judges or prosecutors having been members of the executive or legislative powers continues to raise concerns. the same is true for the fact that judges continue to gain seniority in service while they are in political office. as regards the quality of the spanish justice system, the report acknowledges progress in several areas. this includes the legal aid framework, an increase in the total number of judges, progress in digitalisation, and the submission of a draft law on the right of defence. the report also acknowledges that most indicators of the efficiency of justice have improved. this includes the disposition time in civil, commercial and administrative cases in first instance and the clearance rate for civil and commercial cases. the length of proceedings in the supreme court remains, however, a challenge. as regards the anti-corruption framework, the report underlines that a reform on criminal procedure to address the length of investigations and prosecutions, and a draft law on lobbying are pending. the report also mentions that the reform of corruption-related offences introduced the offence of illicit enrichment and revised the offence of misappropriation, including by lowering penalties in some instances, which was criticized by stakeholders. rules on conflicts of interests of top executive officials are not sufficiently implemented. in this context, the commission recommends that spain strengthen the rules on conflicts of interest and asset declarations of persons with top executive functions by reinforcing the sanctioning power of the office for conflicts of interest. as regards media freedom and pluralism, spain fully implemented the recommendation made in 2022 on ensuring adequate resources for the national audiovisual media regulatory authority. work is also ongoing to strengthen access to information. in this context, the commission continues to encourage spain to continue the work on the revision of the law on official secrets in order to make access to official information easier for journalists and citizens at large. the report also reflects that the chair of the management board of the public service media is exercising her functions ad interim since september 2022, and thus with executive powers further to the modification of the public service media statute. when it comes to checks and balances, concerns have been raised about certain procedural practices in parliament, including the excessive use of emergency procedures. these practices bypass the requirements for public consultation, impact assessment and consultation of the relevant state bodies and may have an adverse impact on the quality of legislation. the report also refers to the efforts that the government is undertaking, with several initiatives aimed at increasing public participation in policy-making. regarding civil society, the report regrets that negotiations in parliament did not lead to a reform of the citizen security law, which could have addressed concerns about its impact on the civil space. since the publication of the rule of law report in july, a number of developments have taken place. the commission is aware of the agreement signed between two political parties in the context of the inauguration of the new spanish government following the elections in july. we are aware that this agreement provides for the approval of an amnesty law and for special committees of parliament. on november 8, i sent a letter to two spanish ministers inquiring about the draft amnesty law. in this letter i also recall the need to prioritise the situation of the council for the judiciary, which i referred to earlier in my speech. i have received a reply from minister bolaños, in which he expressed his openness to dialogue and readiness to meet with the commission in order to provide further explanations on the draft law. following this exchange of letters, the commission has been officially informed by the spanish government that a proposal for an amnesty law has been tabled in the spanish congress on 13 november 2023. over the last two weeks, the commission has been receiving complaints and letters from a large number of citizens and stakeholders. they expressed concern that the draft law and parliament's special committees were in line with the fundamental values of the european union as set out in article 2 of the treaty on european union, in particular the rule of law and the separation of powers, as well as the relevant provisions of eu criminal law, including on terrorism, corruption and the protection of the union's financial interests. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the commission maintains its longstanding position on the issue of catalonia. this is and remains an internal matter for spain, which has to be dealt with in line with its constitutional order. as regards the draft amnesty law, the commission, as guardian of the treaties, is currently analysing the draft and remains in contact with the spanish authorities. the commission will carry out that analysis very carefully, independently and objectively to determine its compliance with eu law, including the fundamental values enshrined in the treaty. i can assure you that the commission will remain seized of this matter and will continue to follow these developments, also, of course, in the context of the preparation of our rule of law report 2024. the rule of law is what binds us together. i would like to thank you for your attention, but i will pay close attention to all the remarks that will be heard this afternoon in this house. i look forward to listening to your interventions and, of course, perhaps trying to react at the end of the debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, commissioner, mr secretary, dear colleagues, i start with a quote: ‘the general council of the judiciary expresses its intense concern and desolation at the degradation, if not abolition, of the rule of law in spain’. the general council of the judiciary a few days ago published this. civil society in spain is asking for mass demonstrations, hundreds of thousands are participating. the pictures on sunday were very impressive. and first of all, i have to say that here in this house, socialists, greens and the left were not even ready to allow a debate, a simple debate about what’s happening in spain in this moment of time. i have to say, the socialists and the left lost all credibility to defend the rule of law on the european level with such behaviour. the left is silent in this house, but europe is not. that’s why i add another quote of a socialist, of felipe gonzález – a socialist, a statesman who brought spain into europe. i quote: ‘this amnesty destroys society. it is not part of the constitution. it can put an end to the constitution’. this is not a party issue. it’s about the rule of law. when corruption, violence and even terrorism goes unpunished, it breaks the rule of law. when people in spain are no longer equal before the law, it breaks the rule of law. when misuse of public funds are not sanctions anymore, it breaks the rule of law. when people who are on the payroll of vladimir putin and do not respect the constitution of spain have the spanish government in their hand, it breaks the rule of law. and when there is a coalition text signed by the party leader, sánchez, asking for a special committee of the parliament to check judgments of independent courts, then it’s fundamentally breaking the rule of law, dear friends. commissioner reynders, the people in spain are expecting a europe that protects the rule of law. you have to give an answer to all the european flags among the demonstrators in madrid. sánchez is elected – no doubt about this. he will come to strasbourg in december. he is prime minister. we respect the majority voted for him. but the problem is you cannot promise not to do an amnesty until three days before the elections, and then you do it. you cannot be in power for five years saying to the people that an amnesty is not constitutional, and then you do it. that’s not acceptable. and as a bavarian, let me also say that we have nowhere else in europe with so many regional rights than in catalonia, not even in bavaria or in south tyrol. so please stop separatism. we need more unity in spain and we need more unity in europe, dear friends. there was an alternative, and that was the alternative showed by alberto núñez feijóo. whereas alberto tried to negotiate with sánchez until the end to keep spain in the centre, to form a government of national unity, sánchez chose the votes of separatists. whereas alberto wants to bring the country together, sánchez prioritised his personal egoism, chose to split spain, stays from now on in the hand of extremists and risks a new referendum in catalonia. colleagues, the spanish people have a spanish and a european flag in their hand. why? because they believe that europe is for freedom, democracy and the rule of law, and the epp will never give up on defending these principles. pavel defeated babiš in the czech republic. tusk defeated kaczyński in poland. in portugal, our friends will defeat the corrupt socialist government and luís montenegro will become prime minister. and in spain, feijóo will finally defeat sánchez. sooner or later, feijóo will be the next prime minister of spain, whether you like it or not. history is on his side. the rule of law always wins at the end. and while sánchez will go down in history as the man who broke the rule of law, feijóo will be remembered as a prime minister who stood for the future of spain and saved the rule of law in spain.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, out of respect for this house, for the european parliament, and for spain, for our country, i call on those who will be involved in this debate to do so with serenity, responsibility and, above all, truth. do you want to debate the threats in spain to our rule of law? i will tell you what the major threats to our democracy are: not accepting the results of the elections on 23 july and the absolute parliamentary majority supporting the new government is a serious threat to our democracy. how can the popular party claim that the spanish constitution is in danger, when it has been constantly violating for five years, with its blockade, the renewal of the general council of the judicial power, which mr weber has referred to as having expired five years ago? how can the popular party boast of defending the rule of law in spain, when mariano rajoy's government used the national police to destroy evidence of corruption from its own party and create the ill-named "patriot police" to illegally spy on its political opponents? how can the popular party boast of being the guarantor of spain's unity, when under the government of mariano rajoy the greatest territorial crisis in the history of spain's democracy took place, with two referendums and a unilateral declaration of independence? how can the popular party defend democracy in spain, when today the ultras are taking the lead and do not condemn the violence against the socialist party's headquarters, the threats against socialist militants and attacks on journalists? the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. mr. weber, lying is not right. and you lied. you made statements to a spanish media last weekend saying: "amnesty for terrorist offences has not been seen in europe. i read to you literally article 2 (c) of the amnesty law: the acts classified as terrorism offences under the penal code are excluded from the application of the amnesty provided for in article 1. from now on, any such claims will prove to be shameless lies. ladies and gentlemen of the pp, there is no greater attack on the rule of law than its alliance with the far right. whenever you bless the far right to rule you attack the judiciary, the press, women and the lgbtq collective. his embrace of the far right represents the failure of an involution project. while in spain pedro sánchez's government has the support of eight of the eleven parliamentary forces, you are increasingly isolated because you cannot see that your mimicry with the far right is devouring you. ladies and gentlemen, today the history of spain is a success story and the main problem of the popular party and vox is that they are unable to understand spain. they are unable to understand that the greatness of spain lies in its diversity and plurality. but there's no turning back. we are the social democracy. we are the spanish socialist workers' party: the one that helped to recover the freedoms after four decades of francoist dictatorship, the party that set up the welfare state, the party that put an end to eta's terrorism and, now, we will be the party that recovers the coexistence between catalans and between catalans and the rest of spain. mr weber, you have made some appointments. faced with attacks on freedom and hate messages, i recommend you read, alongside mr feijóo, antonio machado: "when you walk you make a path, and when you look back you see the path you must never walk again".
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the rule of law in spain, my country. i wish this debate had never taken place, but the recent events leave us no choice but to denounce them here, at the headquarters of european sovereignty, where our values are represented and defended when they are attacked, no matter who you care about, mrs garcia. today, where we have said poland and hungary before, we say spain, and that should embarrass many of you here. this week the new government of mr sánchez was formed, a legitimate but political agreement that is beginning to blow up our rule of law. to cling to power, mr. sánchez not only handes over the government to a fugitive from justice - whom even the deputy iratxe garcía called a fugitive until a few weeks ago - but he does so in exchange for a measure-based amnesty law, drafted by those who will benefit from it: politicians who stop being equal to the rest of the citizens to become an untouchable caste, and they are watching us from there. prevarication and corruption crimes... preventing further investigation of terrorism crimes... yes, mrs. garcia, preventing further investigation of terrorism crimes and also setting up lawfare parliamentary committees to intervene the judiciary from the back door. and this is not just me saying it, it's millions of spaniards who have taken to the streets in the last few weeks. and so also the general council of the judiciary, all associations of judges, law schools, prosecutor's colleges, academics: civil society in general. i am now speaking to you, socialist meps, who are our comrades in this house. we have been working with partners who have defended the rule of law in hungary, in poland, together. what's wrong, is it different now? what's changed? are we so different now that we don't stand up for what we thought was right 12 weeks ago? do it now. raise your voice. we are not going to be able to do this without the help of the european parliament. use your influence. and i warn you, history is written on days like today. consider this: if this is done by one who claims to be one of you, he may not be so much of you. as for the european commission, we trust your courage. we know it's going to be a long road and there's a lot of battles to be fought, but, mr. reynders, don't trust me. you know how mr bolaños spends it, who is now the super minister who concentrates everything: executive, legislative and judicial. but i know that the commission will do the hardest thing, which is just the right thing.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. mr president, it now appears that right-wing and far-right groups are concerned about the rule of law in the spanish state. - right now. and where were their concerns when six years ago we catalans were beaten up for voting in a referendum? they applauded him with their ears. where were you when the judges twisted the criminal code to the extreme to abnormally impose long prison sentences on nine democrats? they celebrated it like they won another world cup. where were you when pegasus put us on the cell phone to spy on us? of course, the reason for the state is a carpet that covers everything. where were you when the catalan operation tried to discredit independence by illegal and illegitimate means? indeed, everything for the homeland: even the cloaks. ladies and gentlemen of the pp, where was your concern for the rule of law when one of your members escaped in a parliamentary seat that would be controlled from behind the second chamber of the supreme court? deafening silence. perhaps you haven't heard this, mr weber. but now yes, now they are concerned because we are going to bring forward an amnesty law that is as necessary as it is just: a step forward to bring back to politics what should never have come out of there and move forward in the democratic resolution of a conflict that is political. mr. reynders, i think you can be calm. despite the political, judicial and media right's pulse against amnesty, it will be shown that it is neither against the spanish constitution nor against the fundamental values of the european union. on the contrary, it is trying to fix a democratic failure, the failure that has meant the police, judicial and economic repression against a democratic, legitimate and very lively movement that some people feel badly about, as is catalan independence. but there is one thing that must worry you: that the demonstrations of these days have shown nazi symbolism and have made fascist proclamations and racist and macho insults. that's something we should all be concerned about.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, self-centered, narcissistic, manipulative, lying, without empathy or remorse and with a pathological need for power and control. this is pedro sánchez. pedro sánchez, who for years has argued in spain that the amnesty law would be unconstitutional, has decided to pass an unconstitutional amnesty law that is a blow to the separation of powers and, therefore, to the rule of law in order to stay in power and get the vote of seven separatist deputies. sedition, corruption, public disorder, assassination, tax fraud, money laundering, disobedience, injuries and terrorism are just some of the crimes committed by the separatists that will not be prosecuted. they violently assaulted our democracy, our coexistence and our freedom. in accordance with article 2 of the treaty, the union is founded on the rule of law, since the rule of law exists when laws are universal, permanent and just rules and there is a separation of powers. an amnesty law has the devastating effect of depriving judges of the constitutional function of judging and enforcing the trial. the general council of the judiciary, the supreme court, the prosecutors, high officials, professors, university professors in spain, all speak unanimously and denounce the coup against the rule of law. amnesty laws are only admissible if they are expressly provided for in the constitution portugal, italy, some european nation. because it is the constitution that establishes the distribution of power among the powers of the state. on the contrary, our constitution expressly prohibits general indulgences. the commission has already adopted a number of amendments to the treaty on european union. so much so, that sanchez has managed to change the attorney general of congress to make an ad hoc report on demand. stalin would be proud of sanchez. we despise him. the spanish have gone out in mass to protest in the streets in an unprecedented democratic movement. thousands of spaniards every night demand law and justice every day at the doors of the socialist party headquarters on ferraz street. ferraz is already a symbol of peaceful, democratic and citizen resistance around the world. the international press echoes the disproportionate violence that the sanchez government orders against young people who demand law and justice. millions of spaniards demand, commissioner, a concrete, precise and decisive response in defence of the constitution and the rule of law, as they see spain on the bitter path of tyranny in the face of the silence in brussels. no decent european would understand the commission's double standard compared with its repeated homily to the conservative governments of poland and hungary, especially when the situation in spain is extremely serious. sanchez has turned spain into a place of impunity, where the criminal gets reward and the victim humiliation. you have awakened spain. spain has woken up. the youth are on the streets demanding freedom and democracy, as in their best days. to all spaniards: permanent mobilization and national november.
mr president, this is the third installment of the parody that you have been representing the people's party in this house since the beginning of the legislature. it bears the title: spain is breaking up and the government is illegitimate unless it is mine. he's smiling, ashamed and mournful, but he's not surprised anymore. ladies and gentlemen of the people's party, keep this idea: spain would be poland if you governed, but you did not govern. control your frustrations and learn to lose. amnesty is an extraordinary mechanism, but it is not alien to our legal tradition. it is fully standardized in europe and endorsed by its courts, and in spain it has been used for over a century. it is adapted to our constitutional system and in our democracy it began with the 1977 amnesty, upheld by the courts. of course you didn't like the constitution, nor that amnesty. they prefer tax amnesty or mass pardons without parliamentary control. remember that in a single council of ministers mr aznar pardoned 1,400 people, more than a law which would require large majorities could now pardon. by the way, you've forgiven abject crimes. this spanish law is an instrument for opening a road that should never have been paved, necessary to ensure coexistence. it does not attack the rule of law, but guarantees it against those who trivialize it and believe they can use the judges as they please. they've got the general council of the judiciary no longer worthy of their name. we are interested in dialogue and what you are interested in is what we have seen these days: the quarrels, hatred and polarization.
mr president, mr weber, the amnesty law, when it is published, will, inter alia, annul the judgments given by the spanish supreme court judges against my colleagues in the catalan government on the events of 1 october. they were sentenced to nine to 13 years in prison. the judges of your country, the judges of schleswig-holstein, judged these same facts. and you know what they said? they said it wasn't a rebellion. they said it wasn't sedition. they said it wasn't even a public disorder. they said it was an exercise of fundamental rights. who was right, mr. weber? the german judges or the spanish judges? who was right? the judges who consider the unity of the fatherland to be above fundamental rights or those who understand that fundamental rights are precisely the ultimate goal of a true rule of law? who was right, mr. weber? the amnesty law is not an attack on the rule of law. the attack on the rule of law was an abuse of criminal law by the judges of the supreme court. what is a threat to the rule of law is the trumpet drift that the pp is making from the hand of vox. and what is a threat to the rule of law is that you, mr weber, are accompanying them on this journey... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker)
mr president, listen, europe, to the voice of a catalan and spanish woman who is astonished at the dismantling of democracy in spain by the pact between sanchez and a fugitive from justice. sánchez, to get the seven votes that allow him to govern, and puigdemont, to achieve amnesty from a coup against democracy and from very serious crimes of corruption and terrorism. listen, europe, to the cry of millions of spaniards who say no to an amnesty that ends equality before the law, judicial independence and separation of powers. an amnesty that creates first and second citizens. listen, europe, to the former socialist president felipe gonzález to say no and no to sanchez's amnesty. listen, europe, what pedro sánchez said: i will bring puigdemont back to spain to be tried. only his lack of scruples and his political opportunism are greater than his deceit. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the mediterranean. listen, europe, to the end of counterbalances and the lamentation of the spanish institutions, all under the control of the government. listen, europe, to the complaint of all spanish judges against a law-making pact, which turns judges into criminals and criminals into judges. listen, europe, to the shame of spain, which has the only european government supported by communists, independents and non-terrorists. these are sanchez's partners. this is the spanish government. listen, europe, to the founding fathers. don't let sanchez turn the european dream in spain into a populist nightmare. listen, europe, the shouting of the streets and squares of spain. a nation that proudly defends its freedom and democracy because today they are being harshly harassed and attacked. sanchez's amnesty is the condemnation of europe. listen to me, europe. act, europe. long live the democracy, long live the freedom! long live spain, long live europe!
mr president, mr commissioner, dear colleagues, it is emotionally understandable that the right side of the house is frustrated after the spanish elections. yet it is rather surprising that the commission gets involved in an internal legislative process even before a draft law is adopted. the commission should, at least in my understanding, stand beyond party politics. but more importantly, the amnesty law has nothing to do with eu law. amnesties are a common instrument in europe in order to overcome difficult political situations, where you arrive at a point of ‘tourner la page’. whether or not they are used is a highly political and sensitive matter, closely linked to the national specificities, something that politically is hard to judge by outsiders in the european union, including germans, such as me. yet eu law can also limit the consequences of such amnesty, admittedly, namely in two cases that the eu charter of fundamental rights violated or the directive on the fight against fraud of union financial interests. so, let’s have a look at this law that was sent to the spanish parliament on 13 november. the charter is interested that core crimes are not undermined, and these are the crimes related to torture or inhumane treatment. the amnesty law does not apply to these cases. there is the just mentioned directive on the union financial interests, article 2 of this law. the amnesty law does not apply to offences against financial interests of the european union. colleagues, the spanish government did in this law everything to accommodate the requests of european union law, and the commission will not come to a different conclusion. what remains is a political question – whether the amnesty is a way to find out the situation in spain or not. and that is what is to be debated. but it is for the spanish parliament to debate this and not the european one.
mr president, the amnesty act, which is fully guaranteed, will be enforced by the judges. those who do not accept the election result or the absolute majority that supports this proposal, nor trust the constitutional court to review it, want to ignore it. they're placed outside the system like this. on 3 october 2017, this parliament underlined criticising a police action in catalonia covered by this amnesty that political issues are resolved politically, not by accident. the un working group on arbitrary detention or amnesty international stress that the criminal prosecution - even of parliamentary acts - that suppressed independence has very questionable legal grounds, far worse than those in this proposal. my party, the eaj-pnv, europeanists, has always supported amnesty because it favors negotiation and agreement, because it proposes solutions based on our slogan 'united in diversity'. it is the alternative to their a for them, an anti-democratic, failed and so old recipe that feeds the living to franco who are chanting in the protests against this initiative of peace and of words.
mr president, amnesty is not an anomaly. several member states have their own constitutions and in recent decades up to 50 have been adopted in the european union. this is precisely the case of the spanish state with the 1977 amnesty. moreover, there have been three amnesties since then, but as they were prosecutors they did not cause them much inconvenience. i suppose it's more beneficial for some of you to amnestie corrupt people than democrats convicted of polling. ladies and gentlemen of the pp, there will be an amnesty law because there is a parliamentary majority that supports it. this frustrates you, but the reality is that you failed to form a government because you are not convinced, you live off the conflict and it is becoming increasingly difficult to differentiate you from the far right. and we have to admit that seeing them stand up next to fascist and nazi symbols doesn't help, the truth. you see, in this house we are concerned about the rule of law in spain. it is worrying that the general council of the judicial power has been five years out of date, that senators from the pp are complaining that they control the supreme court halls through the back door and that judges ignore the separation of powers by protesting against laws yet to be approved. we know that this amnesty does not end the conflict, but it will enable us to tackle the root of the issue, which is, no more or less, than catalonia's right to self-determination.
mr president, amnesty is unconstitutional, it is illegal, it has no place in our legal system. i don't say it myself, the far right doesn't say it, no. it was pedro sánchez. i quote again: amnesty is illegal, it is unconstitutional, it has no place in our legal system. his minister grande-marlaska, november 4, 2019: amnesty is not recognized by the spanish legal order. carmen calvo, then vice president of sánchez, on april 27, 2021: do we plant amnesty? the only possible answer is that it is not questionable because it would suppress one of the three powers of the state. they were right, and they promised never to do so until they lost an election and most of them were no longer able to get through with communist extremists, ex-terrorists, coup plotters and malfeasants pardoned last legislature. but after the elections on july 23, they were missing those votes and they had to ask the coup criminals up there, the escaped coup criminals out there. and those were given to them in secret negotiations outside of spain, negotiations for an amnesty, to keep deceiving the spaniards. whether lawfare or not lawfare. it is now clear that there are committees in parliament which are going to monitor judges and mr reynders does not seem to know that there are committees which are going to terrorize, terrorize judges. that's what's happening in spain, gentlemen. and that's a coup. that is precisely a coup d'état, with criminals and coup plotters.
mr president, the threat to the rule of law in spain is not the amnesty law. more than 50 amnesty laws have been passed in europe and there have been no problems. the last time was in portugal last august. the problem or threat to the rule of law in spain is that we have a spanish right which has no democratic concepts neither are they, nor are they expected. we're living the transition we're living, the one we could have, the one we had under the umbrella of everything tied and well tied. and we saw how a francoist minister went from signing death sentences to being a lifelong democrat and a father of the constitution. on that right, these muds. we find that this right considers any government other than its own to be illegitimate. since 1993, there has been no government other than the right-wing that is legitimate for them. we see how they have kidnapped the general council of the judiciary for five years, the one that mr weber referred to. what can we expect from that? we are seeing a coup call: those demonstrations of thousands, thousands with their hands up, with the franco flag, singing face to the sun and shouting "viva franco!" those you call democrats and peaceful, are calling for a coup, a civil war between spaniards. and you are neither democrats nor patriots, because you come here to harm the spanish state, to call us non-democrats, just as you came a few months ago to try to keep the funds from getting there. gentlemen, i recommend the various students of mr fraga, i recommend you...
mr president, in recent days the spanish people have taken to the streets to protest the betrayal of their prime minister, pedro sánchez, who is a minority in the polls, and who is openly violating the constitution by allying himself with catalan separatist criminals to stay in power. the commission and parliament are constantly talking about the rule of law in poland, hungary and elsewhere in the world, inventing threats, chaining up the moscow trials of defendants who are often sentenced in advance. but this time in spain we are witnessing a real coup d'état, a violation of the constitution in violation of a judicial decision, though founded on law. we are witnessing the dismemberment of a nation and the amnesty of criminals for political reasons. and brussels is not saying anything. the left and the macronists are silent, they are even openly supporting this package. why would you? well, because it's the socialists who are at work, of course. sánchez and his government are being illegitimate, even illegal, by letting the commission do it, and our parliament is being shamed. in its usual logic, brussels should hurry to impose sanctions, and our house should draw up a resolution immediately. and there's nothing at all! this two-weight, two-measure report shows how the usual discourse on the rule of law is nothing more than a miserable leftist comedy to harm its political opponents.
mr president, colleagues, whenever a politician attacks the rule of law, they ask everyone else to be silent. this is exactly what happened in the european parliament today. the representative of the government of spain asked us all to be silent. and our answer is ‘no’! we are not going to be silent. europe is not going to be silent. europe sees, europe listens, europe hears the millions of people in spain who defend the rule of law. we will be with the people in spain and we will be defending the rule of law. why? because the rule of law is a european value and we all have to protect the rule of law. we have to make sure that in every corner of europe, people who respect the law are safe and people who breach the law are held accountable. this is europe. the rule of law is under attack in spain. the amnesty law is an attack upon the rule of law. everyone in europe knows that spain has a government that attacks the rule of law. i know what an attack on the rule of law means, because in my country, romania, in the past, politicians also tried to attack the rule of law. and when the rule of law was attacked in my country, we went to the streets. hundreds of thousands of people went to the streets to defend the rule of law. we went to the streets for months and we won. as a result, today no politician in my country dares to attack the rule of law. the rule of law is strong and protected. romania is credible because politicians know that people will not accept it. this is also my message to the people of spain: do not accept the weakening of the rule of law. do not accept the weakening of spain. say loud and clear what you want. say it publicly and say it for as long as it is needed. if you are present and visible, you will win. and spain will never, ever have a government that attacks the rule of law. si estáis presentes y sois visibles, ganaréis. y españa jamás tendrá un gobierno que vuelva a atacar el estado de derecho. sacad la bandera de españa, sacad la bandera europea. no estáis solos, aquí en el parlamento europeo estamos con vosotros.
actually, mr marques, you have a blue card. would you agree to take a blue card from mr rangel?
mr weber is not asking you to answer a blue-card question. according to the rules you have a right to do it. please check the rules. and at the end of the debate you have the right to speak again if you really feel violated. you can do it to defend your honour at the end of the debate. i will give you the floor if you really feel it is necessary. but not now. colleagues, you have the rules. you can ask for the floor at the end. it happens from time to time. what kind of a rules point are you asking? what point of order?
mr president, ‘intellectually dishonest’ – i was accused of being intellectually dishonest. and i would ask you, president, to also verify the behaviour of this speaker, mr marques, because he accused me of being intellectually dishonest. so he asked for fair treatment and he is the first to have now fair treatment. and i am not going to answer, but he has to study my books, because he doesn’t know anything about what i have written. you have to study!
thank you, sir, we get the point. mr rangel, i remind you that at the end of the debate you have a right to speak. you have a right, but not now. thank you very much.
mr president, mr commissioner, the amnesty law that president pedro sánchez wants to pass is a betrayal. betrayal of the spanish people, the commission, the separation of powers, the independence of the judiciary. so that judges, when they pass judgments, if they are not pleasing to the government, will be prosecuted. and, to remain president of the spanish government, mr sánchez has not hesitated at all to align and make pacts with spain's enemies. with the catalan independents who staged a coup. and if this law goes ahead, that crime will not only not exist, but they will continue to have their independence, which, by the way, we will pay the rest. and also with the basque separatists, heirs of a terrorist gang that killed hundreds of spaniards, including socialists, and who now want to be an independent republic, also at our expense. democracy in spain is in danger, and the european union must learn what the spanish people have done and realize that this law not only wants to destroy spain, but will be a torpedo under europe's waterline. and i guarantee you that, don't hesitate for a moment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, according to the socialists, selling the country by seven votes is an internal matter. well, i wouldn't be very surprised if, after a moment, speaking of hungary and poland with the greatest effervescence, we were judged on any kind of issue. don't you see any discrepancy in this? and they do so with the utmost conspiracy of the european commission and are masters in the selective application of the rule of law and double standards. in the case of hungary, brussels continues to withhold funds and questions the size of the judges' offices. at the same time, sánchez offers amnesty to criminals who were sentenced not only for an illegal referendum but also for fraud and money laundering. sanchez brings his "companions" into the courts. in congress, with the new concept of lawfare, political investigative committees will be able to express their opinion on judges and trials already held. the reaction of brussels to this clear attack on the independence of the judiciary: a letter of concern. dear dolors, spaniards, the solution will not come from europe. brussels only cares if it rules the right. keep the unity that has been formed by the demonstrations on the streets and this will help change the course of spain.
mr president, commissioner reynders, member of the european parliament, the spanish people's party has failed in its attempt to invest its candidate for the presidency of the government in the congress of deputies. i am not satisfied with that bitter taste of mouth, but i try to refresh it here in this parliament with a forced debate on a legitimate initiative adopted under the spanish constitution. an organic bill proposal in which there is no shadow of judicial control, no lawfare, no commission of inquiry. a thoroughly articulated proposal to overcome the constitutionality control that the people's party will safely override through direct appeal and the questions of unconstitutionality and also the questions of preliminary ruling before the court of justice of the european union, because it excludes financial crimes from the union. i would like to say that the commission is not going to be able to take any further action in this respect. less save from the unilateral filibuster exercise of reform with absolute majority in the senate of the popular party to try to impede its parliamentary process, violating the rules of urgency described in article 90 of the spanish constitution. there is no threat to judicial independence in spain other than the rude and contumace blockade of the general council of the judicial power by the popular party to nausea, five years expired by the exclusive responsibility of the popular party. we are therefore faced with a unique law, as the constitutional court has jurisprudence, to deal with an exceptional crisis that took place during the time of the popular party's rule, which was unable to avoid it or even to defend the constitutional reputation of spain, which you are now attacking with a sound and unrelenting voice. i would ask the people's party to let its frustration subside to the point of fueling the anger of those who are marching in front of the socialist party's headquarters with swastikas and nazi greetings, because that is the absolute denial of european values and the rule of law that we represent. how democracies die is the title of one of the most cited essays i have ever read. they die when the legitimacy of the alternative is denied, when the possibility is denied that others will obtain, in accordance with constitutional procedures, the absolute majority with which to get themselves invested and to get to the government in democratically elected parliaments of the people's sovereignty. that's how democracies die. ladies and gentlemen of the people's party, let me tell you that the people's party is not in the government, let everyone know, because it has been unable to agree but with its detachment from the far right. and you know why? because an absolute majority of the congress of deputies has decided that it cannot aspire to govern spain who neither understands it, accepts it, nor loves it so much as it fills its mouth as it really is: plural, much more diverse and much more plural than what belongs in the popular party... (the president withdraws the word from the speaker).
mr. president, i think the spanish socialists should be concerned about the image they have of spain before the other european peoples. what we're seeing is prime minister sanchez, who has obviously spoken for years against the amnesty act, said that the act was unconstitutional, and now he's implementing it. we've seen all the polls that said that the majority of socialist voters are against amnesty and for spain as a whole, and the prime minister is now breaking that too. so what we see is a man who is willing to do anything just to keep power in his hands. but i am even more concerned about the european commission's reaction. first a heartfelt congratulations on the conclusion of this coalition agreement by ursula von der leyen, then this speech by mr. reynolds, who obviously holds to what you don't know what to say, then all that matters is that you have a long speech. so that's unacceptable. all i have to say is that the only democratic way out is for prime minister sanchez to resign, call a re-election, and for the european commission not to use the rule of law just to attack hungary and poland, but to objectively assess all other countries.
mr president, separation of powers is an essential pillar of the rule of law. judges should not make policy and politicians should not take the seat of judges. and it is extremely concerning to see that, in spain, this concept is completely turned around. prime minister sánchez no longer protects the separation of powers. instead, he embraces the power of separation. a slippery politician who will do anything to cling on to power, and who cares more about his own position than about the unity of his country or the opinion of his citizens. exactly the type of behaviour that has no place in a democratic system, that has no place in europe, and it only serves the interests of those opposing democracy in the first place. let us not forget putin was willing to spend billions in support of the catalan independence movement in order to undermine the stability of spain and, through spain, the stability of europe. he can now sit back and relax because the spanish socialists are doing his job for him and free of charge. not so long ago, prime minister sánchez vowed he would never support amnesty. he justified spying on catalans because of the graveness of their crimes. here in this house, not so long ago, with the full support of the s&d group, we criticised russia’s deep interference with the catalan movement and demanded a real investigation. today you defend an amnesty for all those involved. if this was about any other european country, you would have been screaming for the european commission to intervene, and rightfully so. today you are telling commissioner reynders to mind his own business. it is pure hypocrisy. spain deserves better. europe deserves better.
mr president, on 23 july there were general elections in spain. before july 23, amnesty was absolutely unconstitutional and would never be granted, and carles puigdemont was a fugitive from justice. after 23, amnesty is the quintessence of the constitution and carles puigdemont is an exile. man, some explanation deserves the thing. and while citing mandela is very tempting, i think the explanation is much simpler: a politician who gives impunity to his allies to make him president of the government. and it is hard to believe that in the rule of law europe impunity is the currency of exchange that is exchanged for votes. because there is an amnesty that will erase embezzlement, crimes against the rule of law and responsibility for acts of terrorism (mrs. garcia, article two, read it in full). an amnesty that will cancel the judicial investigation into russian interference which this parliament has already declared proven. an amnesty based on a political pact against judicial independence which provides for parliament to review judicial proceedings. an amnesty that does not promote the reunion is in sight but is generating a very serious fracture and division in spanish society. and please do not cite portugal and france to legitimize the amnesty. the crimes that this amnesty includes and will delete are precisely those which were excluded from the amnesty in france and portugal. mr reynders, if this amnesty is carried out, if this amnesty of wrongdoers, terrorists (presumed) and seditionists is carried out, i believe that the voice of the european institutions when they have to defend the rule of law will be much weaker.
mr president, i would like to say today before the house that i support the amnesty bill proposed by the socialist parliamentary group in the congress of deputies, for a number of reasons which, in fact, do not apply to this house and which i would not have time to explain. at the same time, i understand that the comrades of the popular party, especially the spanish, disagree with this bill. you can question its opportunity, you can question its justification, you can question its effects, but that does not mean that the proposal of law itself constitutes an attack on the rule of law. because, moreover, you will have the opportunity, as you will surely use the opportunity, to use your 50 deputies or senators to bring an appeal to the constitutional court, which will decide one way or another and, in both ways, the rule of law in spain will have worked.
mr president, i'm going to try to unpack the situation a little bit by saying things as they are. and how are things? the president of the council of the european union has been re-elected in his country by seven votes to pay amnesty to criminals, fugitives from justice and those investigated for corruption and terrorism. it's hard to hear, but it is. what is the general interest in this decision? first the virtue? no, i'm just focusing on the interest. the interest of being president. at the expense of what? at the cost of the sacrifice of the rule of law in spain and the basic concept on which the european union is based: equality between citizens. by seven votes! by seven votes you are able to sacrifice the rule of law! and who did it? the president-in-office of the council of the european union, who is not here today but we hope he will come this semester to tell you in person: you, by seven votes, are attacking the foundations of this union.
in writing. socialists believe that the real threat to our democracy is that the spanish right does not take on the electoral results of july 23 and the absolute parliamentary majority that has given continuity to a progressive government. unfortunately, the people's party (pp) and its far-right government partners prefer to feed anti-democratic conspiracies and behaviours rather than bet on the sanity, coherence and coexistence of our country. and above all, they continue to give way to the ultra-movements and do not condemn the violence against the socialist party headquarters, the threats against socialist militants and attacks on journalists. finally, the socialists argue that the proposal for an organic law in question does not pose any threat to the rule of law or democracy in spain, nor does it contain any shadow of judicial control or lawfare. the real threat to judicial independence in spain is the blockade of the renewal of the general council of the judiciary, which has been in effect for five years.
in writing. socialists believe that the real threat to our democracy is that the spanish right does not take on the electoral results of july 23 and the absolute parliamentary majority that has given continuity to a progressive government. unfortunately, the people's party (pp) and its far-right government partners prefer to feed anti-democratic conspiracies and behaviours rather than bet on the sanity, coherence and coexistence of our country. and above all, they continue to give way to the ultra-movements and do not condemn the violence against the socialist party headquarters, the threats against socialist militants and attacks on journalists. finally, the socialists argue that the proposal for an organic law in question does not pose any threat to the rule of law or democracy in spain, nor does it contain any shadow of judicial control or lawfare. the real threat to judicial independence in spain is the blockade of the renewal of the general council of the judiciary, which has been in effect for five years.
in writing. socialists believe that the real threat to our democracy is that the spanish right does not take on the electoral results of july 23 and the absolute parliamentary majority that has given continuity to a progressive government. unfortunately, the people's party (pp) and its far-right government partners prefer to feed anti-democratic conspiracies and behaviours rather than bet on the sanity, coherence and coexistence of our country. and above all, they continue to give way to the ultra-movements and do not condemn the violence against the socialist party headquarters, the threats against socialist militants and attacks on journalists. finally, the socialists argue that the proposal for an organic law in question does not pose any threat to the rule of law or democracy in spain, nor does it contain any shadow of judicial control or lawfare. the real threat to judicial independence in spain is the blockade of the renewal of the general council of the judiciary, which has been in effect for five years.
in writing. socialists believe that the real threat to our democracy is that the spanish right does not take on the electoral results of july 23 and the absolute parliamentary majority that has given continuity to a progressive government. unfortunately, the people's party (pp) and its far-right government partners prefer to feed anti-democratic conspiracies and behaviours rather than bet on the sanity, coherence and coexistence of our country. and above all, they continue to give way to the ultra-movements and do not condemn the violence against the socialist party headquarters, the threats against socialist militants and attacks on journalists. finally, the socialists argue that the proposal for an organic law in question does not pose any threat to the rule of law or democracy in spain, nor does it contain any shadow of judicial control or lawfare. the real threat to judicial independence in spain is the blockade of the renewal of the general council of the judiciary, which has been in effect for five years.
mr president, commissioner, secretary of state, there always seems to be a traditional tension on enlargement which sometimes becomes a kind of false dilemma between geopolitical considerations and those of the examination of values and principles. unfortunately, the geopolitical situation always plays a role in lowering the demands on value matching. it is true that historically the enlargement of the union has taken place in geopolitical situations: the three southern democracies after their transitions, the rapprochement of the whole east after the fall of the soviet empire... but the path to accession is a normative and value-focused path, where there are no shortcuts. i use the same expression as mr bilčík. it's normative, it's not transactional and it's based on merit. the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of workers' rights and the right to work. and, of course, at some point it will have to be asked whether an accession process can last forever without any progress as is the case with turkey.
mr president, mr commissioner, five months ago this house adopted a series of recommendations to take action against the use of spyware. we were very clear. we demand rules to establish very strict conditions for their use in very exceptional cases, thorough investigations into alleged abuse that have come to light and aid for people who have been the target of attacks. and while the number of cases continues to rise, neither the national authorities of the countries specifically mentioned in the recommendation nor the commission have made a single move or presented a plan for future action. from here, we ask you, once again, to hurry. every second they spend in silence makes them complicit in one of the most serious violations of rights against citizens of the union.
madam president, something as small as bees has great environmental and agricultural value. they keep our ecosystems balanced. they are the engine of beekeeping and depend on them for a third of the world's food production. today they are in grave danger of extinction from climate change, habitat loss, industrial agriculture, intensive farming and pesticide abuse. and consequently, they also endanger biodiversity, beekeeping and food security. it is precisely to ensure our own food sovereignty and the survival of the beekeeping sector that the european union must protect bees: on the one hand, by banning toxic products for these insects and, on the other hand, by implementing plans to save them from extinction. but of course it must go further, betting on a model of extensive, sustainable and ecological agriculture, which produces healthy food and preserves biodiversity. this is what nature restoration is about: ensuring the health of our environment to ensure our food in the future.
mr president, today we celebrate the last international day for the elimination of violence against women in this mandate and i have my feelings. we have made an unprecedented effort since the commission on women's rights to punish the abusers and protect the victims, but despite our insistence we have not succeeded, for example, in treating the incorporation of gender-based violence as a crime and this has in part weighed down the directive on combating violence against women which we have in our hands, a directive which, despite its limitations, we have to carry out. how can we have states that still resist incorporating rape as a criminal offence? we cannot afford a directive that is below the standards of the istanbul convention. if there's sex without consent, there's rape. what part of it didn't get out? yes, it is. it's a simple thing. we are also amending the trafficking prevention and control directive because we know that traffickers are barely punished and victims are not repaired. and it turns out the resistance persists. women have to deal with the misogyny and denial of the far right, their allies and their many friends every day. and it's a terrible sign that they're getting more and more involved in institutions. in spain, vox has ordered its councillors to revoke the institutional acts by 25 november. how can such a pedagogy of cruelty and psychopathy be afforded? it's a kind of selective indifference to murder. we know that our achievements are precarious, but they must know that we have already survived many setbacks and that we are the engine of history. here are the feminists!
mr president, commissioner, when we talk about gender-based violence we are not talking about something ethereal. on the contrary, we are talking about something very tangible and present in our lives. we are talking about violence that affects one in three girls and women, violence that surrounds us and that we have an obligation to address and eradicate. i therefore feel obliged to denounce the council's position, which it is taking in the negotiations on the future directive on combating violence against women. we cannot afford european legislation that is not ambitious, that does not advance the fight against this disease and that does not include the inclusion of rape on the list of eurocrimes on the basis of the absence of consent. the european union has ratified the istanbul convention a few months ago. this one should set our minimum, not our maximum. representatives of the council (absent today in this debate): you are in time to change your attitude and to be a constructive and fundamental part of this feminist europe we are working hard to build. we will see you in the next negotiations; hopefully it will help us reach a deal that saves lives.
mr president, there is no better way to celebrate this 25th anniversary than by finally adopting a directive on combating violence against women. a good directive that will put an end to violence against women, and advance prevention and better treatment of victims and their families. the commission and parliament are clear about this, but it is essential that the council, which is the member state, agrees to include rape as a crime of violence against women, on the basis of consent, of that "only yes is yes". the european union has finally ratified the istanbul convention and it has already entered into force. a convention we would do very well to respect. because we cannot go backwards, we do not want or will not accept to decaffeinate the directive on combating violence against women by allowing the wave of far-right, populist and denialist violence against women to continue to protect and feed thousands of women who are murdered simply because they are women. the whole of europe must stand up to the challenge, for the sake of respect for women, no doubt, and also for the sake of respect for our fundamental values.
in writing. on the occasion of the international day for the elimination of gender violence, 25 november, socialists are leading the way in supporting an effective european action to end gender-based violence, as in spain with that comprehensive law that will celebrate 20 years in 2024. women's rights are human rights and there is no place or space for violence against women in europe, so after the eu ratified the istanbul convention, we are faced with a historic opportunity to pass a directive that will allow tackling this type of violence in a comprehensive way which includes the crime of consent based rape and homogeneity, more now than the extreme right-wing denial forces, in some cases in governments, legitimize it.
in writing. on the occasion of the international day for the elimination of gender violence, 25 november, socialists are leading the way in supporting an effective european action to end gender-based violence, as in spain with that comprehensive law that will celebrate 20 years in 2024. women's rights are human rights and there is no place or space for violence against women in europe, so after the eu ratified the istanbul convention, we are faced with a historic opportunity to pass a directive that will allow tackling this type of violence in a comprehensive way which includes the crime of consent based rape and homogeneity, more now than the extreme right-wing denial forces, in some cases in governments, legitimize it.
in writing. on the occasion of the international day for the elimination of gender violence, 25 november, socialists are leading the way in supporting an effective european action to end gender-based violence, as in spain with that comprehensive law that will celebrate 20 years in 2024. women's rights are human rights and there is no place or space for violence against women in europe, so after the eu ratified the istanbul convention, we are faced with a historic opportunity to pass a directive that will allow tackling this type of violence in a comprehensive way which includes the crime of consent based rape and homogeneity, more now than the extreme right-wing denial forces, in some cases in governments, legitimize it.
on behalf of the renew group. mrs president, we have been experiencing very serious events in guatemala in the last few days. the public ministry has announced its intention to annul the results of the general and presidential elections in guatemala based on unfounded accusations of fraud. at the same time, he has called for the removal of the immunity of the president and the vice president elected in guatemala, with the intention that they cannot take office next january. the european union's election observation mission, which i had the honour of presiding over, concluded that the elections had been well organised and transparent and found no basis for alleging fraud. we said there was no fraud. the context is such that both the oas secretary-general and the high representative have described these events as a real coup. that is why, together with s&d, verts-ale and the left, i would like to ask for a high representative's declaration on the attempted coup in guatemala to be included with a resolution on tuesday as the third item on the agenda.
the rapporteur. mr angel, commissioner gentiloni, on behalf of the commission, thank my colleagues from the negotiating team, mr sven simon, co-chairman of the epp, and mr sandro gozi, alternative rapporteurs from renew, mr daniel freund, from verts-ale, and mr helmut scholz, from the left, for their constructive cooperation. i think we've got a good report at a crucial moment. it is a report on the european parliament elections in june next year, which will take place after a particularly important legislative session for the european union. it's a legislature in which we've been dealing with the coronavirus pandemic and, since february 2022, putin's war of aggression in ukraine. we can say that the institutions, and parliament too, have fulfilled their role. we have launched a european health union, with the vaccine purchase plan, and a recovery plan to rescue our economies. in addition, after the war, or during the war, we have strengthened our security and defence strategy and therefore our energy union. in the midst of all this, we have also held the conference on the future of europe and launched parliament's proposal to launch the procedure for the reform of the treaties. a reform which is inevitable now that the enlargement process is also under way. the next european parliament elections must therefore be aimed precisely at assessing these five years of activity by the institutions, in a real exercise of european democracy and policy, and not, again, at a collection of 27 parallel national elections which depend on domestic issues concerning the member states. it is therefore more than ever necessary to europeanize this political discussion, to stimulate participation in european elections. we therefore urge the european and national political parties in particular to commit themselves. for example, by enhancing the visibility of european political parties by including their logos and names on the ballots of national parties and also in election marketing. we also call on the european political parties, of course, to respect the values of article 2 of the treaty and to commit themselves to nominating their candidates democratically. and that they are consistent with the electoral mandate, that they reach agreements on how to develop the post-election process during the negotiations to elect the president or president of the commission. we therefore consider it important that, this time unlike what happened in 2019,we can ensure that the principle of the process of leading candidates for commission presidents is respected. that requires a commitment from the parliamentary institution, and we therefore propose that it is the candidate from the political group that gets the most seats in the elections who has the opportunity to initiate negotiations with the other groups first to see if he can form a sufficient majority. otherwise, the turn will be passed on to candidates from the other political families. if the process goes as we hope, parliament will have, as in 2014, a candidate whose name the president of our institution, the european parliament, will transfer to the european council. we cannot therefore miss this opportunity. we cannot repeat the mistake of 2019, and i call on the house and my colleagues to support this report which proposes to further europeanise european elections and preserve this process so interesting and necessary that voters can also express a preference about who should be the president or president of the european commission.
madam president, welcome this report and welcome the excellent work of the speakers, because, among other important things, concrete actions are being called for to remove physical and legal barriers to the vote of persons with disabilities. in 2019, we all rejoiced that the voter turnout was higher and, in part, it was because 200 000 people who previously could not exercise the fundamental right to vote persons with disabilities in spain were able to vote. indeed, they were able to vote thanks to a reform of the electoral law that originates from a regional parliament such as the madrid assembly. but let us remember that more than 800 000 people were still denied the right to vote in other member states. in spain we have achieved this: that the active and passive voting of people with disabilities to elect and be elected is a reality. we in parliament have been constantly insisting, as well as on the reform of the electoral law, that all legal barriers to the right to legal capacity and fundamental rights be removed. there are still 14 member states where this right is denied. the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, ratified by this parliament and which we evaluated twelve years later, is the basis for this. we have to get homework done. all persons with disabilities must be able to exercise their right to vote.
the rapporteur. madam president, i want to thank you for this debate. i think the positions are very clear. there have been further references to the proposal for a pan-european constituency. i agree with my friend sandro gozi that this would be an element that would have a very profound effect on the europeanisation of debates and on the strengthening of the application of the principle of the main candidates for commission presidents. parliament has a clear position on this. we're looking at the election bill. this report therefore reiterates this, which does not mean that we must also find other complementary formulas to give us this europeanisation, such as visibility of european political parties on ballots and electoral marketing, and also strengthen the ability to influence this decision on the president of the european commission as parliament. we think that the recommendations we have included in the report on how to develop the post-election process are important, precisely to ensure that the european parliament has a candidate who is involved in the decision-making process of the european council. some colleagues have said that we are trying to take power away from the european council. but if we think about it, what we are doing is giving information to the european council. because the european council, like any head of state in a member state under a parliamentary system, does not want to propose someone that the house can reject, but needs to know who the candidate or candidate is who can have a majority in the house. that is why we are actually making the european council's task easier if we can, after the elections, have our common candidate available, presented and informed the european council.
madam president, i want to thank the rapporteur. clearly, we need climate action at the same time in many places, and the technology of small nuclear reactors may be one of the sources of decarbonised energy. even so, by developing these small reactors we will not eliminate one of their problems, which is waste. but of course, research and innovation in the fight against climate change are needed, through simplification, design, standardization and probably cost reduction. but we don't lose sight of it. resources are finite, and the ipcc has made it very clear: the most efficient way to reduce emissions and to gain broadly clean and additional energy is from renewable sources using wind and sun, mature systems and fully reliable energy systems. these days, at the conference of the parties, the commitment is clear: to double energy efficiency and triple renewable energy by 2030. i therefore conclude that research is necessary, and development is also necessary. but let's not use this small nuclear reactor to drain resources that should be devoted to renewables and advance our climate neutrality goal by 2050.
madam president, the new measures proposed in this review are aimed at giving drivers greater safety in tourist and occasional transport and improving their working conditions. this is a very specific sector characterised by working days where driving is combined with other types of work related to tourism activities, so less hours are spent than in the regular. the new rules give workers some flexibility to deal with unforeseen situations and avoid situations like the one in germany, where a driver abandoned 42 people on a highway for having completed their driving hours and, when he refused to continue, was fired. in addition, it is possible that on a national tour drivers can accumulate weekly breaks at the end of the trip and return to their homes with their families, something that already occurs on international trips. finally, controls are being strengthened to protect workers and prevent possible abuse. supporting these measures is to support the legal certainty that occasional transport drivers need and to improve their working conditions, their safety and that of passengers.
mr president, commissioner, i congratulate the negotiating teams and the spanish presidency on this important agreement, which lays the foundations for our open strategic autonomy, ensuring access to raw materials critical to european reindustrialisation and the necessary green and digital transitions, and allowing for the creation of quality jobs and the maintenance of activity and population in areas at risk of depopulation. the agreement guarantees 10% for extraction, 40% for processing and increases recycling by at least 25% of consumption by 2030. in addition, an increase in the recovery of raw materials from waste has been achieved, which was undoubtedly a pending subject. the guarantee of environmental, social and economic sustainability has also been strengthened, and more balanced relations with our strategic partners have been strengthened, and research to discover new materials has been strengthened. we must take into account the specific impact of mining on the territories and make the citizens of these areas part of the benefits of these activities. to ensure this, we must invest in training, in skills and ensure quality jobs. coming from a region, andalusia, with seventeen critical minerals identified, i believe we will follow very closely the implementation of the law so that it will result in the welfare of citizens our open strategic autonomy and with the highest environmental and social standards.
mr president, mr commissioner, without lithium, without batteries, and without rare earths, there are no wind turbines or electric cars. china controls 98 percent of these lands, using them as a russian-style geopolitical weapon with gas. without a secure supply, there is no energy transition and no strategic autonomy in europe. so this law that we've been working on in record time is very welcome. we need more alliances with reliable partners like chile. it is also important to speed up the granting of permits and map out strategic reserves in europe. but it's not enough. in spain we have lithium and rare earths, but, as elsewhere in europe, they cannot be exploited by social opposition to these projects. it is not enough to ensure the highest environmental and sustainability guarantees. we must also involve local communities in these strategic projects and not only extract resources from them, but also make their territory remain with added value and quality jobs. we also need more efforts to recover and recycle waste from these raw materials, as we have said in this parliament.
executivevice-président of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the commission appreciates the valuable comments and questions raised in this debate. it is clear that we share the same objective of continuing our strong trade and investment relationship with taiwan. the ultimate objective of our engagement with taiwan is to focus on results-driven work. with this objective in mind, the commission has significantly intensified its effort and multiplied its actions with a view to strengthening our bilateral trade and investment ties. this has been done through trade and investment dialogue, covering discussions in key areas such as semiconductors or through initiatives such as the investment forum, which brings together all relevant actors from eu member states to taiwanese and eu businesses. these innovative forms of engagement we have developed with taiwan, and our objective is to foster the resilience of our relations, but also that of the eu supply chains. the work that we are willing to further develop. a number of you raised as broader geopolitical questions. the eu and eu member states remain committed to the eu’s one-china policy. at the same time, we have a direct interest in preserving peace and the status quo in the taiwan strait. the status quo should not be changed unilaterally by force or coercion. its preservation has been a key for peaceful development and economic growth in the region for decades. but obviously, these are broader geopolitical questions that go beyond the topics of trade and investment. in parallel, we continue our work on the most pressing market access issues, as we mentioned, offshore wind and agrifood. the commission remains open for working with taiwan and all relevant stakeholders to deliver concrete benefits on both sides.
this debate is now closed. one motion for a resolution was received1. the vote will take place tomorrow. _____________1 see minutes. (the sitting was suspended at 11.16)
dear colleagues, welcome to the sakharov plenary award ceremony in this hemicycle, welcome to the laureates. we start the ceremony with a video. (a video was played in the chamber)dear colleagues, today we honour the 2023 laureates of the sakharov prize for freedom of thought. they are jina mahsa amini and the woman, life, freedom movement of iran. it is with regret that i must inform you that ms mahsa amini’s family were stopped from leaving iran last saturday and are under a travel ban imposed by the iranian regime. their treatment is another example of what the people of iran face every day. let me say that the courage and resilience of iranian women in their fight for justice, liberty and human rights will not be stopped. their voices cannot be silenced, and while they are not here today, their presence will be felt. we are joined by mr saleh nikbakht, the amini family lawyer, who is with us in parliament representing them. afsoon najafi and mersedeh shahinkar – representing the woman, life freedom movement – are with us too. they have also paid a very high price for their fight. let us also welcome the sakharov prize finalists and their representatives here in the visitors’ gallery. from the united states and from nicaragua we have dr colleen mcnicholas, as well as father uriel vallejos and ms sara henríquez, representing monsignor rolando josé álvarez and ms vilma nuñez de escorcia. i would like also to acknowledge the presence of venezuelan opposition activist lorent saleh in the visitors’ gallery. lorent was detained by the venezuelan authorities for his defence of human rights and was in prison when we awarded the sakharov prize to the venezuelan opposition in 2017. his presence here today is a testament to his resilience and courage. the european parliament thanks you all for your unwavering dedication to protect human rights. we stand with you in solidarity for a world where freedom and equality are not just ideals, but realities for us all. (applause) dear colleagues, upholding the dignity of every individual remains a global challenge. universal acceptance of human rights is not a given, but for 35 years now, the european parliament has played a part in defending human rights with the sakharov prize for freedom of thought. the prize recognises individuals, groups and organisations that have made outstanding contributions in this field. many have done so at great risk. some have paid with their lives, as jina mahsa amini did. jina was 22 years old. she was a daughter, a sister, a student, a young woman with dreams and ambition for a better life. on 13 september 2022, she was arrested and severely beaten for wearing her hijab incorrectly. she died of her injuries three days later, leaving behind horrible injustice imposed by oppressive forces curtailing basic freedoms. but her voice was carried around the world by women, men, students, academics – people from all walks of life – on the streets of iran. this was the beginning of the woman, life, freedom movement. values that we must never take for granted. since her killing, hundreds more protestors have reportedly been killed and thousands have been detained. afsoon, we honour your sister hadis’s memory, and we support you in your plea for justice: justice for her, for you and for the thousands in iran fighting daily for dignity.mersedeh, we praise your determination and perseverance in your struggle, in spite of sustaining traumatic injuries and abuse. your daughter – watching you now from the gallery – can be proud of you and look towards her future with hope, thanks to you. (applause)please know, as you can see, with this room, with our colleagues, that your willingness to stand up for your friends, for your family members who were killed or arrested, inspires us all. your bravery in calling out abuse and injustice is held up as an example across the globe. please know that you are not alone, that this house is your home, and that your courage will win, because your cause is right. (applause)i give the floor now to the representative of ms mahsa amini’s family, mr saleh nikbakht.
lawyer representing the family of jina mahsa amini. – (the following is a transcription of the interpretation of the original speech from farsi and kurdish into english.) honourable president of the european parliament, honourable representatives of more than 650 million people of europe, ladies and gentlemen, i’m very grateful to have this honour to be here as the representative of mahsa jina amini’s family. today in this parliament, i can read jina’s mother’s message, which is the message from the whole family. this is a great honour for me. i wish mrs mojgan eftekhari herself or another lady could read this message. the rising of iranian people last year, since the day jina mahsa was arrested, this rising was started by women, and women led this uprising – men accompanied them. the result was what you saw, and it was echoed around the air, and the slogan of ‘woman, life, freedom’ that started being expressed first in kurdistan – it took all over the world, and in all over our country, iran, and over all the middle east. i read this message on behalf of a grieving mother filled with feeling and motherly love to her daughter. as mrs metsola said, she was a beautiful woman who had very high ambitions to serve humanity. she wanted to become a medical doctor. i should say part of this message is in kurdish. i hope one day we will have translators into kurdish as well. she is all my heart,she is my life, my blood,there is no space for belief or disbelief,my existence has no reason but her. you are the scent of the essence of spring,you are the delicate fragrance of the rose brought by the breeze from blissful fields,you are the perfume of scorched earth after rain. my darling,through the crack of my darkened window,i look for the eyes of the daughter of light,of all the songs that time murmurs,i listen to the whisper of the tiny pebbles of the pure source. ladies and gentlemen, i wish i could be present in your honourable assembly to represent all women of my land, in expressing gratitude for the granting of the sakharov prize, the ep’s token of freedom of spirit. unfortunately, we were denied this opportunity in violation of all legal and human standards. our attorney, mr saleh nikbakht, accompanied by mrs soheila ghaderi, will represent us and transmit our message to you. we are here in france, in the birthplace of joan of arc, to honour jina’s memory. how magnificent and meaningful is the coming together of these two inspirational daughters of history across centuries. those who, with their deaths, crossed borders and revived the aspiration for human emancipation and liberty. jina is the incarnation of life. her name became a secret code for freedom and spread the dream of liberty from her birthplace, kurdistan, all over iran, the middle east and the world. it set in motion millions of oppressed women and human beings in the hope of a journey towards the endless horizon of salvation. her life was taken unjustly. they believed that by taking her life they would stop her from being and becoming in the same way as the oppressors believed that by burning the body of joan of arc, they would make her dreams disappear in smoke. they did not know and still don’t know that from the ashes of joan of arc and jina, an unbeatable and inspirational spirit will rise like a phoenix. they didn’t know it. they still don’t know. this is the zeitgeist. these two zeitgeists have now joined each other across centuries to announce the good news of eternal salvation. they are the promise of realisation of elevated human values embodied in the progressive slogan ‘woman, life, freedom’, values that rise above borders, time and place: justice, freedom, peace, coexistence and equality of all human beings. ladies and gentlemen, people of the world, jina’s grief is eternal to me, and she is undying for people all over the world. i firmly believe that her name, beside that of joan of arc, will remain as a symbol of freedom. from the birthplace of eternal jina, i convey to you my and my family’s endless gratitude, and i hope that you will stand firm and proud by your great choice. let’s hope that no voice will fear pronouncing the word ‘liberty’. let’s hope that no voice will fear pronouncing ‘liberty’. mojgan eftekhari, jina amini’s mother, from saqqez, iranian kurdistan. (the house rose and accorded the speaker a standing ovation.)
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details concerning the vote: see minutes)
rapporteur. – madam president, the report we are about to vote on touches upon a key issue for the implementation of one of the fundamental principles of the european union: the free movement of workers between member states. today, this specific freedom remains dependent on the fair and effective recognition of professional qualifications. in response to the challenges faced by romanian nurses in meeting the required training standards, the romanian government introduced an in-service training allowing romanian nurses to achieve the minimum requirements stemming from the 2005 directive. my report aims to clarify the language and to ensure legal clarity, so that the directive’s provisions are interpreted consistently and unambiguously. today, we are not only voting on the technical amendment to the directive, but reaffirming our commitment to ensuring that every qualified professional in the european union – regardless of their country of training – can practise their profession outside their own country. to conclude, i call upon all members of this house to join me in taking a necessary step towards strengthening our internal market and reaffirming our commitment to professional mobility within the union.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, as the rapporteur, i would like to ask the report to be referred back to the transport committee for the start of interinstitutional negotiations.
the rapporteur. madam president, in this parliament we spend a lot of time on matters over which the treaty does not provide for jurisdiction, and when we have jurisdiction we sometimes refuse to debate. the european parliament did not consider it useful to provide for a debate on the evaluation of the financing of icrc europe worldwide. this is a pity, because the eu's external policy financing instrument, which is being used by the southern and neighbouring countries, seems to be paying for the midterm review of the multiannual financial framework. the frugal or radish states, call them what you will, tend to view aid to the weakest as an adjustment variable. this is to say nothing of the difficulties faced by the weakest and most vulnerable people on our planet. this is not to mention the image of our partners in the south, already sufficiently affected by successive crises. this is not to mention the commitments made by all our member states at the 2015 conference on development finance in addis ababa. this is not to mention the growing difficulties faced by african countries whose debt is increasingly alarming. it is ultimately silencing those who have difficulty in being heard or who simply have no voice. if we're not their amplifier, they're just not going to be heard. madam president, i would like to thank the co-rapporters, mr tobé, mr marques and mr gahler, for their excellent cooperation, as well as the services of the european parliament, those of the afet and deve committees and our assistants, for lending us a strong hand in the implementation of this report. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
the rapporteur. madam president, we put this report to the vote on the reform of the rules on corporate taxation in the european union, which is based on five pillars: first, respect for the fiscal sovereignty of the states and their free competence; second, the importance of coordination within the european union in tax decision-making; third, reducing bureaucracy and the tax burden, especially for smes; fourth, respect for the single market; and, fifth, recognition of companies as the engine of the free market economy through job creation. it is crucial that the european parliament takes a clear position on the tax reforms of companies in the context of the oecd framework agreement and the various legislative proposals made by the european commission. this reform cannot go in the direction of creating more difficulties for our companies and entrepreneurs, thus hampering investment and growth. i therefore want to thank the enormous work done by all the political groups, as well as the immense work also done by the technical staff of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the subcommittee on taxation, and ask them to vote in favour, as happened in the committee on economic and monetary affairs.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have passed a lot of legislation in this parliament to make the european union a benchmark in the fight against climate change. but let us not be deceived: this transition will have a social and economic impact on the everyday lives of citizens, on the way our industry operates, and will unevenly affect some regions. for example, regions which are highly dependent on the automotive sector, which is undergoing an unprecedented transformation, are at risk of losing jobs, economic activity and population. it is our duty to redesign the future of cohesion policy and the structural funds to provide financial support to those most affected by these transitions. the committee of the regions has long asked us to support the re-training of workers, the transformation of enterprises, especially smes, and the prevention of the relocation of our industrial fabric. i would like to thank all those who have made this report possible, and i ask for the positive vote.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, today is an important day: we have passed innovative legislation that will improve health care for all european citizens. with this health data space, patients can access their medical history or electronic prescription anywhere in the european union. and, for that, we've introduced guarantees that they do it with maximum security, privacy and trust. the citizen will have control over his data and can restrict or decide who can access it and for what. it is an interoperable health data space that will enable better diagnostics and reduce testing costs and duplicity. but there is also enormous potential if this data is made available to medical research in a secure, anonymised and patient-consented manner. it will be a major step towards accelerating the development of new medicines and clinical trials, and a critical mass of data at european level is vital for rare disease research and for saving lives. europe is making a difference today.
the commissioner is aware that a european area of health data is needed. - why? - i don't know. because we live in an integrated europe where citizens move around, move around, have the right to freedom of movement. it is clear that in any health situation it would be normal for any hospital, any european medical centre to have access to the health data of these people to guarantee their right to health. it is true that we must move forward along that line. but it is also true, and i say this so that you also know, that in some countries of the european union, in some member states that have a decentralised health system, there are sub-state entities that deny access to their citizens' data. i'll give you the example of spain. in spain there is no integrated health card and if one from andalusia gets sick in barcelona, they cannot access that information. i hope that we will make progress in this europe of integrated health data and that what the spanish government has prevented, the european union will allow.
mr president, commissioner, if there is one activity that needs to regulate the right to disconnect, it is telecommunications. and three years after the adoption of a resolution on the right to disconnect, we still lack a european regulation of telecommunications. and it is not because this parliament has not insisted: in more than ten reports or opinions we have insisted on the need for that european framework. it is very good to follow the legislative procedures. it's necessary. but it's much more necessary and important to answer the problems because, if not, the problem we're going to have is that the ones who are going to disconnect are going to be us, but the reality. the reality forces us to have a european framework. it's important to me. and if unfortunately social dialogue has not worked, what we cannot have is legislative paralysis. and therefore this commission is obliged to present a document, a legislative initiative, to answer a problem. i repeat: disconnection of workers is key and this commission cannot hide or excuse the lack of agreement in social dialogue. i therefore ask you, commissioner, that before the end of this term you present a european legislative framework for this parliament to decide.
mr president, we want to live better, safely and healthily at work, but also with time to care, reconcile and gain autonomy. technological transformations cannot serve to camouflage new forms of exploitation: marathon hours, houses turned into factories, continuous pressure, stress, anxiety, abandonment, loneliness. the commission's commitment is welcomed, but it must present as soon as possible a proposal for a directive on telecommunications and the right to disconnect, which will overcome the blockade imposed by a narrow-minded employer; a proposal which will recognise the voluntary and reversible nature of telecommunications and which will guarantee equal working conditions, the prevention of mental health risks and the protection of the right to privacy. and more accurately and quickly, it should facilitate the implementation of the sectoral public administration agreement, which has been frozen for a year, by adopting the relevant legislative initiatives. in order for work not to be alienating but a source of emancipation, we must work less. we need time to be free, not to remain slaves and slaves to a few. and technology has to help us achieve that, no matter how much the employer wants to keep abounding in 19th-century work schemes.
mr president, commissioner, legislation on the right to disconnect is not only linked to a change in the working environment, but also to the protection of workers' mental health. control, increased workload and isolation, as well as a long list of psychosocial risks that arise from a lack of connection, undermine our well-being, undermine social security systems and create costs not only for workers and their health but also for employers. during this mandate, parliament has not only advocated the need to regulate the right to disconnect and telecommunications work, but has also adopted reports such as the digital mental health report, which called for legislation to protect workers in a digital labour market, calling for and launching new linked initiatives to regulate artificial intelligence in the workplace and a directive to prevent psychosocial risks at work. commissioner, at least start with the right to disconnect and please make a proposal before the end of the term. let us not forget that technology is born to drive progress and not to increase inequality and contribute to job insecurity.
madam president, any plan to prevent foreign interference will fail if you do not take into account that there is no democracy without people. democracy requires a minimum of spiritual, social and cultural unity that is contrary to the multiculturalism you promote. european societies are weak and therefore prone to interference and subversion. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the subject of the european parliament's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. regional separatism, islamic separatism and gender separatism, which seek privilege and camouflage themselves under false pretenses of human rights, are an enemy of democracy. foreign interference is in those pressure groups, ngos and multinationals that are sweeping through the hallways and offices of this house. who's in charge? to whom do they answer? we also know that the separatism in catalonia in 2017 had the support of putin's infiltrated agents, and sánchez will unlawfully amnestiate them of all their serious crimes. but you don't care about that. national democracies cannot be protected by foreign powers or by globalist agendas. the biggest attack on democracies is the globalist and fanatical agenda by which the davos elites want to mark the policies of european countries without popular support. and you put her in the children's school. democracy is a government of the people, not of bureaucrats meeting with stakeholders.
madam president, i thank the vice-presidents for their presence and for the proposals they have brought to us, which i support. in the dimension of strengthening democracy, i do believe, vice-president šuica, that perhaps - or perhaps not perhaps, but clearly - it was a mistake to shut down the digital platform of the conference on the future of europe. but they can still correct that decision by creating a permanent platform that can be active during the five years of the legislature for debate, exchange and citizen participation, because the experience of the conference, as you said, was very positive. as regards the citizens' panels, it is very good that the commission should continue to use them. it is also a good idea to do so in cooperation with parliament, so that it is not merely a commission initiative. and finally, remember that we had suggested to you that we should send a letter to all young europeans who turn 18 to attach the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. the social democrats believe that democracy can never be taken for granted, that it must always be defended and strengthened. first, protecting it from foreign interference and manipulation and from the bulls and fake news. the socialists therefore believe that this package for the defence of democracy is undoubtedly a step in the right direction. we need tools to move forward in our efforts to ensure strong, resilient and transparent democracies. we support that, in the run-up to the 2024 elections, we should put together good practices and a european network of electoral cooperation with concrete initiatives that promote free and fair elections, intensify the fight against disinformation and support media freedom and pluralism.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, mr borrell, i agree with almost all your comments. i agree with your comparison of today's gaza and the german cities destroyed after world war ii. but what are we going to do about it? how does this discourse match with maintaining the preferential partnership agreement with israel, allowing israel to participate in eu-funded programmes that, among other things, finance two companies that manufacture drones that kill children in the gaza strip? we support, of course, the proposal to sanction terrorist settlers. but what about the chief of the settlers? what are we going to do about mr. netanyahu? are we not going to do anything to bring him to the international criminal court? are we going to do nothing to try the perpetrators of this genocide? children are dying in the gaza strip and international law is dying if we do nothing. the un is dying and the whole web we created after world war ii to resolve conflicts peacefully is dying. the european union must work with action and make a clear call for an immediate and permanent ceasefire. the solution is not just to destroy hamas. you can take out this hamas, but we're planting ten, a hundred or a thousand hamas. if we do not end this violence, if we do not end the occupation, apartheid and ethnic cleansing, there will be thousands of hamas and there will never be peace in the area.
mr president, 18,000 palestinians have been killed under the bombs, and half of them are children. every day, right now. sixty-three journalists and more than a hundred un workers, one and a half million displaced civilians. this is not a legitimate defense. israel has set itself the task of breaching the geneva convention to the last degree and turning the gaza strip into a killing field. and before that, it is not enough to ask for a humanitarian break. you have to act, call things by their name and use all the tools available. the european union can suspend the partnership agreement with israel today, decree an arms embargo, adopt sanctions against those responsible and push the international criminal court to arrest and investigate crimes. our citizens are demanding it on the streets. stop being complicit in barbarism, because there will be no solution without justice, no solution without decolonization, no european project without credibility. we will not be silent until the end of this barbarism comes. of course, genocide does not stop; genocide stops. (the speaker agrees to answer a question asked in accordance with the blue card procedure.)
question from the blue card. i am very pleased that you will ask me this question, mr bütikofer. what we have been experiencing in the last two months are continuous violations of international law: leaving the population without supplies, without electricity, without water, without gas; forcing displacement of the population within the territory of palestine; bombing hospitals, schools, civilians; more than 18,000 people killed - half of them children. this is a planned genocide, mr bütikofer, and it is a killing field right now. as i say again, if we want to have a european project, the least we have to do is have credibility.
mr president, mr high representative, it is true that we are possibly in the worst moment since 1948. and this debate, said a colleague from the epp, should bring solutions. the first is that this change, this turn of the european union, which has been made possible by the attitude of mr borrell on behalf of the council and the commission, but also of mr sanchez in the rotating presidency, has been much better than that of roberta metsola and ursula von der leyen. and then i think there is some evidence that parliament needs to say more clearly. evidence of the total ceasefire, the total ceasefire. that evidence we should say more clearly. as, by the way, as the indisputable release of all hostages. i think the bottom line of this question is that there has to be a palestinian state. but not just a palestinian state: the occupation must be ended, not only in gaza but also in the west bank, which is what european society demands and what this parliament must say loud, clear and strong.
mr president, mr high representative, two months ago, on 7 october, hamas terrorists, paid by iran and with the cooperation of hezbollah, committed the largest massacre in decades against innocent civilians in israel. we have seen, and i have personally seen, images of barbarism, brutality and evil in pure state, recorded by the same terrorists who murdered entire families on kibbutz and raped women and girls and walked them through the streets as shields and as human trophies. hamas executed a plan it had been planning for decades: to annihilate the state of israel. and precisely because it is a democracy, that is why we can and must ask and demand that israel comply with humanitarian law. however, some are trying to blame the victim, and the european union cannot today demand negotiating tables when in recent years it has not even wanted to support or facilitate talks for the normalization of relations between israel and the arab states, such as the abrahamic accords. humanitarian aid is vital to alleviate the situation in gaza and political action is key. we have, however, had the current rotating council presidency (the spanish) and the next (the belgian) trying to gain political influence by holding a press conference in the middle of a truce. if we really want to contribute to the resolution of the conflict between israel and palestine, it can never be... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker).
mr president, i thank the high representative, josep borrell, for maintaining a clear and balanced position from the outset in the face of this conflict and this escalation. because i am of the opinion that, listening to the debate that has been held, there should be no disagreement between us to say that, of course, we support israel in its goal of disarming, disarming a terrorist group like hamas, which must of course stop controlling the gaza strip, but that at the same time, this must be done in accordance with international humanitarian law and, at the same time, that it also means that the laws of war must be respected and all the innocent civilian deaths that have occurred in gaza must be avoided. why is this position being debated and debated by some members of this house? i would add one thing: there is no better friend of the jewish people or of the state of israel than the man who laments and condones the excesses of his government.
in writing. almost all the words have been said. many atrocities have been committed. we must move quickly to consistent, continuous and structural action to save people and to structure a diplomatic process that can lead to peace. i therefore support the lines of action here laid down by the honourable member. i hope that not only this parliament but all the european institutions will have an unambiguous mandate to implement them. stresses in particular the need to end the forced displacement of civilians and not allow the continued occupation of palestinian territories by the state of israel, to strengthen measures to reverse hamas' terrorist actions, to impose sanctions on those who insist on setting up extremist settlements in the west bank, to launch operations under the common european security and defence policy and to unhesitatingly advocate a two-state solution as a path to reconciliation and peaceful coexistence between the two peoples in the medium and long term. i also stress the importance of strengthening humanitarian corridors and ensuring the right to humanitarian assistance for civilian populations in need of emergency assistance.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the attempted coup d’état in guatemala (2023/3031(rsp)).
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, now we change the problem and we go back to an old problem, which is the situation in central america and in particular in guatemala. i’ve just spoken with the president-elect, mr bernardo arévalo, to whom i transmitted the support and solidarity of the european union. i am continuing the spanish because i know that he is maybe following this debate. – siguiendo este debate, un debate convocado como señal inequívoca del respaldo de las instituciones europeas a la democracia en guatemala. como alto representante de la unión, le acabo de trasladar una invitación de alto valor simbólico y político, que es que pueda participar cuando sea presidente en las reuniones de nuestras instituciones, en particular el consejo de asuntos exteriores, y eso los miembros lo consideran pertinente. pero antes hay que superar la grave situación política por la que pasa guatemala. el viernes pasado, la fiscalía guatemalteca volvió a actuar para tratar de revocar las elecciones presidenciales basándose en denuncias infundadas de fraude. la unión europea, y yo como responsable de las misiones de observación electoral, consideramos que eso es inaceptable y además muy peligroso. porque, en efecto, la misión de observación electoral de la unión europea, así como otros observadores internacionales y nacionales, no encontraron ningún fundamento para tales acusaciones cuando observaron las elecciones. eso es lo que dije el pasado viernes, condenando estos intentos de anular los resultados de las elecciones generales y presidenciales en guatemala y avalando la clara victoria del presidente electo, el señor arévalo, que tomará posesión —espero— el próximo 14 de enero. consideramos además que cualquier acción que obstaculice la transición de poder constituirá no solo una violación de los principios más básicos de una democracia —es una clara violación del derecho fundamental del pueblo de guatemala a elegir a sus propios gobernantes legítimos—, sino también, como el título de este debate expresa en cinco palabras, un intento de golpe de estado. señorías, la unión europea, al igual que la comunidad internacional en la región y a nivel global, ha pedido a las autoridades de guatemala pública y privadamente que respeten la voluntad que expresó el pueblo de guatemala en las urnas y el orden constitucional del país. la unión europea está dispuesta a actuar. a la vista de las últimas declaraciones de la fiscalía de guatemala, lideradas por fiscales que actúan con motivaciones políticas, hemos acordado adoptar un marco jurídico que nos permita aprobar medidas restrictivas contra los responsables de estas acciones, y estamos avanzando en ello. señorías, una vez más pido al gobierno de guatemala y a todas las instituciones y actores políticos que impugnen los intentos de invalidar los resultados electorales y garanticen una transición pacífica y ordenada del poder. estamos comprometidos con el apoyo a la democracia en guatemala, que es fundamental para preservar la estabilidad política y económica del país y su desarrollo inclusivo y sostenible. desde la unión europea estamos dispuestos a defender estos principios y a colaborar con la administración del futuro presidente bernardo arévalo en beneficio del principio democrático y de la prosperidad del pueblo guatemalteco. es lo que acabo de transmitirle personalmente y es lo que pido al parlamento europeo que apoye.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, it is with great regret that we discuss the latest developments in guatemala. i say this with great regret, because i regret what is happening in this country, which has been a traditional partner of the european union, one of the few democratic beacon lights in the region and with a people who love freedom, for which it has suffered years ago from the violence of intemperance and authoritarianism. firstly, i would like to stress that the elections held in the country were verifiable and transparent, as confirmed by the european electoral observation mission, with a strong electoral result, which gave the candidate bernardo arévalo a 60 percent victory. the supreme electoral court, the only authority to define the validity of the electoral process and confirmation of arévalo as elected president, also confirmed this. it is unacceptable that the prosecutor's office, commonly known as the public ministry, which is an auxiliary body to the justice, intends to invalidate the decision of the competent authorities and the sovereign will of its people. the pretence to distort the judicial system and commit an aberration to the democratic process in this country is inadmissible. we need your position firm, as mr almagro has already done in the oas, so that europe can respect the sovereign will of the guatemalan people.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, mr high representative, last friday we once again witnessed the efforts of the guatemalan public ministry to annul the validity of peaceful elections which took place in a transparent and well-organized electoral process, as concluded by the european union's election observation mission, among others. the latest events are the culmination of a plan that has been machining for months, instrumentalising the justice to carry out a clear coup. for months we have seen arbitrary persecutions and the lack of scruples of the public ministry is more than evident, so much so that it no longer bother to conceal it. and all this also happens with silences like that of outgoing president giammattei. it is time to impose sanctions on those responsible for this situation. there can be no consequences for those who attack the constitutional order of guatemala and pervert the validity of what the guatemalan citizenship expressed forcefully in the polls, that is, that next january 14 bernardo arévalo is president.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr high representative, in guatemala a coup d'état is being perpetrated from the public ministry orchestrated by those who do not want the democratic alternation that questions their impunity; a pact of corrupt people using prosecutors and judges to question the electoral process in a spurious way with the aim of annulling the result of the elections and preventing the taking of office of the elected president, bernardo arévalo. in guatemala there was no electoral fraud, as the european union's election observation mission, which i had the honour of leading, the organization of american states, the national and international observers and the supreme electoral court have confirmed. in guatemala there was no electoral fraud, but there is judicial fraud, which seeks to nullify the democratic will of the guatemalan citizens, expressed clearly and eloquently in peaceful, transparent, well-organized and unquestionable elections. your vote must be respected. in the coming days, their future, the future of guatemala, can be decided, and we must be on the right side of their history, which is also our own. i would like to repeat from this parliament to mario, byron, nívea, karla, francisco, marta, ana, luis, brenda, yani, shannon, oscar, andrea, alba, carolina and merlin and to the millions of guatemalans who dream of a better country: we will not leave you alone. and to the corrupt actors who act as anti-democratic actors and their bosses and accomplices, i want to say: you will be sanctioned by the european union and democracy will triumph in guatemala.
mr president, the elections in guatemala were impeccable, they were clean. citizens were able to express their will freely and democratically at the polls. this is what we have been verifying by the european union's observation mission and other international observation missions, and most importantly by the guatemalan election institution, the supreme electoral court, whose members are now being persecuted and repressed by the guatemalan judicial institutions. i want to point out that we have already seen that there was a coup d'état going on after the first round and the international community was able to prevent it. but this coup seems to be consuming. today, from this platform, i also want to make a very clear appeal to president giammattei. he must take the necessary measures to restore constitutional order in his country and must favour and allow the elected president arévalo to take office on january 14. he has to act, because if it wasn't to collaborate with what consuelo porras and rafael curruchiche are orchestrating, they are instrumentalising justice to make it an instrument of the coup.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. ladies and gentlemen, in this case it is much easier than in the previous one to reach the conclusions of the debate. i think there is an absolute unanimity among the speakers in saying that we must support the elected president; that the international community must, in doing so, demonstrate its support for democracy in guatemala; that the election observation mission that we deployed at the invitation of the guatemalan authorities did so independently, thanks to the professional and rigorous work of the members of the mission and, in particular, the mep jordi cañas, who led it as the chief observer. many thanks to him and to all who did this work which has been widely recognised and even awarded internationally. it is a recognition that extends to all the election observation missions we have deployed around the world. i would like to take this opportunity to thank this parliament, all of you who have taken part in the election observation missions. now the usefulness of the same is being shown. they have certified a clear and transparent result and we must therefore defend it against attempts to invalidate it. we are working to impose restrictive measures on those responsible, but above all we must work so that the elected president can take office next january.
the debate is closed. i have received six motions for resolutions and the vote will take place on thursday. see also minutes.
we move on to the next item on the agenda, namely the statement by the vice-president of the commission and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in venezuela (2023/3032 (rsp)), and i invite the high representative, mr josep borrell, to speak again.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me stress first of all that the european union stands firm and consistent in its support for a democratic and peaceful solution that emanates from the venezuelans themselves to end the complex crisis that the country is going through and that allows venezuela to return to a democratic path, which requires credible, inclusive and transparent elections. next year, the last of our legislature here in brussels, will be a key year for venezuela. and they have a great opportunity to put the interests of venezuelans above everything else. the european union therefore calls on all parties to continue to advance the negotiating process that began in mexico to honour the partial agreements that have been signed to date, including, in particular, the one in barbados. this political agreement was an important step towards democratically guaranteed elections. we therefore decided to extend the restrictive measures imposed by the european union for an exceptional period of six months instead of one year, sending a clear signal that those sanctions would not be extended beyond 14 may. and we've said it... (inaudible words from a deputy). you will have an opportunity to speak later, madam deputy. and we have said it many times: we are ready to review sanctions as long as there are objective measures to make progress in the democratization process. unfortunately, this hopeful step has been overshadowed by recent worrying events, such as the supreme court's decision to cancel the opposition primaries that gave victory to maria corina machado or the numerous arrest warrants that include key members of her political party, vente venezuela, and roberto abdul, president of the ngo summate, who has been detained since last wednesday. in addition to all this, the problem of political disabilities that prevent certain opposition leaders from participating in the presidential race is added. we have taken note of the announcement on the procedure for the review of the disabilities agreed by the general auditor. but what is really important is to continue working towards the empowerment of all political candidates in venezuela. there is a question of a possible election observation mission for that presidential election. and i want to take this opportunity and this solemn forum to stress that the european union will consider any formal request from the venezuelan authorities depending on the situation in the country, the electoral conditions and the participation of the opposition in those elections. and, although it has nothing to do with that, i also want to take this opportunity to address the recent escalation of tensions between venezuela and guyana, following the call for a referendum in relation to the territorial dispute over the territory of the essequibo. this escalation could jeopardize the stability of the region. i would like to stress the importance of a peaceful and diplomatic solution in accordance with international law and the multilateral framework. i welcome the efforts of the region and its mediation with both sides. i believe that unilateral action must be avoided above all. i hope that the meeting of the presidents of venezuela and guyana this thursday in san vicente and the grenadines will reduce tension and prevent once again forcible solutions to political problems.
on behalf of the epp group. mr. president, mr. high representative, how long will the maduro regime continue to persecute and imprison the opponents? how long will you continue to trample on the rights and freedoms of citizens? and how long are we going to keep on letting that happen? another debate, this time regrettably without resolution, and the horizon for venezuela remains bleak. whether through armed conflict or the arrest order of politicians and activists, all accused of treason to the homeland, maduro's only purpose is to continue to persecute those who defend democracy and freedom in the country. in the barbados agreement, some wanted to see a little light of hope, but it has lasted very little. do you still think, mr. borrell, that was a positive step? don't be fooled. maduro has no will to free political prisoners or lift disabilities, stop harassing opponents, or allow free elections that he knows he will lose. he's scared of maria corina machado and what she represents. in the face of this, it is time for the european union to give the good word. faced with the undeniable reality, it is not possible to envisage ending sanctions, or even limiting them, while tyranny continues to oppress venezuela. moreover, we must continue to pursue maduro and his henchmen as criminals they are. venezuelans are willing to risk everything for freedom and democracy, and our obligation is to help them in their struggle.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, it is no coincidence that when possibleist movements take place in a regime that has been entrenched and bunkered for so long, there is a part of that regime, a part of that core that governs a country, that resists those changes. it is true that barbados has been a beacon of hope. it is true that it is not over, or at least it is not continuing as we would have liked, but it is also true that the pressures that are being put on the regime internally by the most stable sector are actually producing that situation. i would say that the european union obviously and effectively has to advocate and press as much as possible to demand that some of these conventions and the most obvious issues that had to do with dialogue be respected, which are, in fact, those relating to the call for free and fair elections and, of course, to the halting of the persecution of political opponents. in this context, the emergence of this question of the esequibo is also no coincidence and has to do with the way, with the formula, that normally also the hardest, most bunkered sections use, to be able to divert attention and generate other conflicts that hinder the main thing, which is to regain the democratic path in venezuela. and in this sense, the european union must also be absolutely vocal and unequivocal in condemning any unilateral and, much less, armed action. perhaps we should remind you how other undemocratic or undemocratic regimes in latin america throughout history ended, which also made unilateral decisions in that direction, looking for them as a way forward. but at the same time, the european union must remain demanding and willing to force dialogue, act as a positive force and not give a single excuse to the hardest part of the maduro regime not to continue moving forward, to not continue with the possibility that there is indeed a way out, a way out, a solution. the only possible solution to the situation in venezuela is the democratic solution.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, when a dictatorship wants to keep power, when it is afraid to lose it, there is nothing like looking for an external enemy to point out internal enemies. this is not new, it's a constant in the terminal dictatorships. this has been done by the tyrannical government of nicolas maduro, using the legitimate cause of the esequibo, not only to provoke a regional conflict, but, above all, to point out the internal democratic opposition, with an intention: to divert attention and coagulate the regime. what's wrong with the regime? that she's scared. that he is afraid of a united candidacy of the opposition around maria corina, that he is afraid that there can be democratic elections, without disabling, without persecutions, without detentions, without political prisoners. she's scared. he's afraid of an election and he's looking for a reason to cancel it. a state of perhaps exception, caused by conflict, with a clear regional risk. but when a dictatorship is afraid, its end is near.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. mr president, we have at the time welcomed the dialogue between the maduro government, the venezuelan opposition and the united states, and the barbados agreement on presidential elections to be held in the second half of next year. we are concerned, however, about the uncertainties that still weigh on these elections and call for clear mechanisms to be established to ensure the participation of opposition candidates, including those who have been elected by venezuelan society to represent them in these elections, and for the sake of venezuelan democracy, to provide the conditions for these elections to be held freely and transparently. but amid this delicate process of political normalization and the growing impopularity of his government, maduro has pulled out of the manual, reviving the old territorial dispute with guayana over the esequibo region, knowing that this issue unites virtually the entire country, the entire political spectrum, and allows to divert attention to the serious problems the country is going through, and who knows if it provides the excuse to postpone elections. we must not underestimate the potential of this territorial conflict or maduro's intentions to annex the essequibo, much less in the turbulent international context in which we live. we must therefore call for the avoidance of unilateral negotiation to resolve the conflict through international mediation, within the framework of international law and allowing the international court of justice to do its job, respecting its jurisdiction. in this regard, we welcome the meeting to be held on thursday on the initiative of the celac presidency and hope that it will help to reduce tensions.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, high representative / vice-president, the venezuelan dictator nicolas maduro, failing so massively his own country and his own people, decided to follow vladimir putin’s example. first intimidating and exerting violence against every group of political opposition to his regime. and recently also starting unilateral action against neighbouring guyana, threatening virtual annexation of the crude-oil and gas-rich essequibo province of the country. we have, high representative / vice-president to adopt more decisive measures to prevent maduro’s regime from meddling all over the world in his actions.
on behalf of the left group. mr. president, strange dictatorship of mr. maduro, who calls his people to the polls every nine or ten months. i can't remember any country where people vote more than in that dictatorship. the right-wing parties in this parliament seem to be upset: i do not know whether the polls are called, whether the venezuelan people can vote so much or whether the results of these votes are what are upsetting them. we are still debating here, now for the consultation on the eschequibo. what is the problem with consulting the people about a conflict that has been going on for over a hundred years? what's the problem? what has been demonstrated, once again, by the popular support that maduro's government has? what is the problem with a criminal who is calling for military intervention against her state being disabled? in europe, in spain, for putting up an urn, they're not disabled, they're in jail. if mrs. maria corina machado were in spain or in europe, she wouldn't be disabled, she would be in prison for criminal activity. but we cannot allow venezuela to have its sovereignty, to have its laws, to apply them and only the democratic opposition to integrate... (the president withdraws the word from the speaker).
mr president, the psd, the epp, stands with the venezuelans. we do not forget their suffering and we condemn the continuing deterioration of democratic values, the violation of the rule of law and human rights in this country. more than seven million people have fled venezuela since 2015. ninety percent of venezuelans live in extreme poverty. at present, there are about 300 political prisoners and this is unacceptable. the humanitarian situation resulting from the political crisis created by maduro, the impact of the migration crisis, make us fiercely defend an imperative called democracy. the 2018 elections were not free, fair, or credible. the lack of democratic legitimacy also applies to the referendum on the annexation of parts of the territory of guyana and to an illegal impediment to the candidacy of maria corina machado. the venezuelans urgently need a government that truly represents the will of the people. we therefore call on the international community from the european parliament to support free and fair elections in venezuela and full implementation of the commitments made in barbados.
mr. president, mr. high representative, the maduro regime continues to violate the human rights and freedoms of the venezuelan people, persecuting political leaders and ngos and illegally disabling opponents. the venezuelans are now living through key moments that will determine their future, and i wish them a democratic future. we in europe cannot stand by. on the contrary, we must follow closely the next steps and help them to ensure that elections in venezuela are free and fair. we must now more than ever show our full support for the democratic forces and for maria corina machado in their struggle for a better and democratic future.
mr president, mr borrell, nicolas maduro is organizing a farce of referendum for the accession of the territory of esequibo. it is curious that their partners, from puigdemont to maduro, are characterized by calling illegal referendums to justify their illegalities. the essequibo is an area rich in gold, diamonds, uranium, oil... communist guerrillas don't have enough to prey on their own nations. he does so because he has the unconditional support of his allies: cuba, russia, china, nicaragua and any other dictatorial regime, but also the são paulo forum and the puebla group, where his friend rodríguez zapatero is dedicated to whitewashing any dictatorship. the question is what will you do: become an accomplice again and talk about political dialogue with dictators and criminals, when you are threatening, harassing and disabling opposition leader maria corina? it is time to condemn in the strongest terms the actions of the dictatorship of nicolas maduro. it is time to condemn the threats against the territory of esequibo and the systematic violations of life and liberty. it's time to demand the unconditional release of all political prisoners imprisoned in el helicoide. it's time to take nicolás maduro and his henchmen to the international criminal court. but above all, mr borrell, it is time for you to stop behaving like a member of the spanish socialist party.
mr president, the maduro regime has broken its commitments in barbados. he betrayed the agreement and increased his repression. we cannot imagine the intention of the spanish foreign minister to call for the lifting of european sanctions. the new persecution of the regime demands greater support for venezuelan democracy. the next year the presidential elections must be held in accordance with the high representative's statement. maduro can't choose his rival. this is a right expressed by venezuelans in the primary process that today the regime's supreme court intends to ignore. europe is committed to the political prisoners of the dictatorship. it is worth noting the rush with the arrest of roberto abdul and the issuance of arrest orders to prominent leaders of the opposition, especially those of the team of maria corina machado. in view of this deception, the union ratified its sanctions. we will hold this position until the regime respects its commitments.
mr president, the year ahead will be defining in relations between the united states and the european union, but it will not be a new one. there may be continuity or there may be a return to 2016, but we'll play on familiar ground. as such, there is no room for error in planning the next years of relationship with our partner, our most important ally. defending a liberal world order based on rules is to bring our foreign policies into tune. it is asking washington to join us in defending the european borders, which are those of democracy, and to continue to help ukraine. at the same time, we must support american efforts for stability in regions like the middle east. we should also look at china from a common, global perspective. collaboration on investment and technological development will be the cornerstone of a competition between china and the west over which we cannot and must not lose control. finally, our security depends on seamless coordination with washington. strengthening our capacities while giving nato the importance and capabilities it needs is vital for european stability. if we let russia and china camp freely at their own pace, the cost of dealing with two such emboldened powers will be exponentially higher for our citizens in the future, and we cannot afford that.
mr president, congratulations, in the first place, to the rapporteur, tonino picula, for this excellent report that i fully support. i just wanted to bring something else to the debate. in 1939, on the eve of world war ii, clarence streit published a book, union now. in this book, he proposed a federal union of the atlantic democracies to face nazi germany and fascist italy. in 1941, churchill and roosevelt signed the atlantic charter in newfoundland. then, in 1949, the nato treaty. 1995, in madrid, the new transatlantic agenda was signed. so we have a big atlantic acquis on which to build. and i think we have to go beyond just partnership. we have to move into a transatlantic community. we need a vision that can include a common transatlantic market. also parliamentary and political cooperation instruments. i think we have to seize the moment now for that.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, mr borrell, i think the european union's approach to its relations with china has been wrong so far: it has been based on hostility that may well be in the interests of the big american companies, but it has certainly not been in the interests of our citizens. at the recent eu-china summit, it seems that the course has changed, that it is committed to policies of dialogue and cooperation with beijing. a dialogue which we ask you to deepen and which is based on honesty and on trying to serve to reach agreements with a country with which we share interests and which, unlike the united states, does not pose a threat to peace and international law. china is not involved in any war in the world. in ukraine, it is a twelve-point proposal which has certainly not pleased russia. in the gaza war, he is sharing the same positions that we defend most people calling for a ceasefire and peace. it is time for the european union to have its own, autonomous and sovereign foreign policy, to break the us tutelage, to leave behind sanctions and interference and to strive to deepen our relations with china. relationships based on mutual benefit, respect for sovereignty and non-interference. that's what benefits our people. now, out of order, mr. borrell, i want to thank you and acknowledge that you've been sitting here for seven hours, enduring what no one else can. we're used to seeing mrs. von der leyen, when she comes here, take a round and leave. you've been here seven hours and i think it's fair that we recognize you and thank you... (inaudible words)
mr president, the ability to analyze reality monochromatically or bichromatically, something that is unfortunately slipping into politics in general, politics in all our countries, including here in the european union, is resisting to understand the analysis of relations between the european union and china, precisely because china is large enough to play the same game we play, sometimes with a moral that moves according to interests. and in that sense i think we must, of course, be realistic at the same time that we must, of course, also defend our own interests in the world. and to be realistic in the sense that, indeed, it is an ally or more than an ally, it is an economic cooperator from whom we cannot do without, with whom we must establish relations on an equal footing, on an equal footing, but at the same time, of course, we must defend the values that we, in principle, represent in the world, but considering that we cannot impose them or we can impose them, of course, on china. and in that sense, i would like to say that we should, in the same way as this report, advocate a mature relationship with china, because, moreover, not only will it be good for the european union, but i believe that producing an individual, autonomous european union in the world will also be good for the rest of the world, somehow escaping a second cold war in which we could establish ourselves as invisible allies. and in this one... (the president takes the floor from the speaker)
madam president, i am not going to say anything. ukraine's place in the eu is beyond doubt. the ukrainian population has been ready for eu membership since the euromaid demonstrations in kiev back in 2014, and less than a decade later, russia's war of aggression in ukraine has actually brought the country closer to membership than ever. but the war has lasted too long, almost two years. it's not going to last. the ukrainian people deserve the war to end soon. but the war will not end until ukraine wins, and therefore we in the eu must continue our great support for ukraine. our support must be both military and economic and it must be paid for in the eu when ukraine is ready. and thankfully ukraine is on its way. reforms are underway and this is important because the eu is more than just trade and neighbourhood. the eu is based on common values of democracy, freedom and rights. i therefore think it is important for me to stress to the council and to the commission that we must not give up our support for ukraine. ukraine needs help to end the war, and then they need to join the eu when they are ready.
the commissioner, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, the ministers, the it is not just the european parliament that is waiting for a decision on next year's budgets. this is what the citizens of the european union are waiting for, who would like to know if we set certain priorities, certain tasks, such as, firstly, ukraine, most importantly, immigration, which the president has been talking about, do we have the money for this? the european commission has calculated the costs of these actions as necessary. but from that point onwards, even though parliament has also calculated the costs and shown how much it really requires expenditure, and we have seen the council continuously trying to find reserves within the budget, to move from one drawer to another, to find solutions, to show that we have too much money and we just need to move it around, the european parliament is clearly saying: this cannot be done this way. the priorities unfortunately require the contribution of all european countries. and we're waiting for an urgent decision on this matter.
president. - i am not going to say that the president-in-office of the council has not been able to answer the question. and now more than ever, it is important that we in the council remain collectively behind ukraine. everyone will notice that there is a great deal of concern here about the growing lack of support in the united states, but also within our own council. and i think it's very important that we put orbán's obstructionist policy out of the way and make a deal without him. the council must continue to express clear support for ukraine and sanctions remain an interesting way to do so. and i really hope that the 12th sanctions package will include the luxury diamond product. to help ukraine and to make our transition a reality, we will really need budgetary space. so not only the mff but also the budgetary space of the member states will be of utmost importance. for us, s&d, there can be no "save, save, save" again. i hope that the economic governance package will also be discussed openly and well: the commission has also proposed a new programme for the development of the european community.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since we have a delay problem, i am informed that we cannot accept catches-the-eye. i am very sorry, but there has been a delay in the timing and therefore executive vice-president šefčovič can speak.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, mr president of the council of the european union, honourable members, i think that this important debate just underlined the historic importance of this european council. and i really would like to thank all of you for the clear demonstration of support and solidarity for ukraine. and i share the views of many, which have been so clearly expressed by mr mureşan or mr glucksmann, madam schaldemose, madam van brempt, madam in 't veld, just a few minutes ago, who also underlined that the support has many dimensions its financial, its material, but also its political and moral. and i can assure the honourable members that the european commission is doing and will do its utmost on all of these dimensions. as you know very well, and mr marques underlined the importance of this proposal, we are pushing for eur 50 billion to stabilise the financial situation in ukraine, and we will continue to support the defence and to do our best to help ukraine to be well prepared for accession talks and later for membership. and it is indeed remarkable that the country is in fully-fledged war and still managed to deliver on important preparatory works for the accession talks. so the strong signal clearly must be sent to our ukrainian friends, but also in this very tense geopolitical situation, to the people of moldova, georgia and the people of all western balkan countries. and i agree with all of you that enlargement cannot be taken hostage to the lack of reforms on our european institutions. so the conclusion is very simple: we must work on both priorities in parallel. and you know that the european commission will always support the changes, including in treaties, if necessary, which would allow us to be more agile, more democratic and more efficient in our decision-making. the geopolitical challenges of today clearly require the robust response from the european union. and i think that over the last few years, we clearly demonstrated that we know how to stand tall and united in the face of the last crisis with covid, with war in ukraine, or with the challenges linked with the energy crisis and high inflation. the global leadership must be backed by appropriate financial means, and therefore, i would like to thank all honourable members who have been supporting the clear position of the european commission in this regard, that what we need is updated multiannual financial framework, which is simply need financial means to support our policies and to react to this unstable war. many of you rightly raised the issue of migration, and as you know, we raised our ambition on anti-smuggling, on better management of our external borders and on building stronger partnership with the third countries. what we have to do now is to push it to the next level, and we will do our utmost to work with you, honourable members, with the spanish presidency, to conclude the negotiations on the migration and asylum pact. and i know that my colleague, ylva johansson, the chairman, mr fernando lópez aguilar, but also the spanish presidency, is doing their utmost to make sure that we will succeed, hopefully already in the next political trilogue on this very important issues, and we will do our best to assist the successful outcome of this process. if you allow me to conclude on climate change and competitiveness. as you know, this morning, the cop29 discussions and deliberations are being concluded. what was adopted is described as a historic decision to set in motion an irreversible transition away from fossil fuels. and this agreement should keep us within the range of 1.5°c. and i think that also this decision just underlines the importance of the green deal, and it just underscores the importance we have to attach to move towards the competition, which is taking place among the global economic powers in the field of clean and green technologies. and therefore, we in the european commission are convinced that the european council has to support all the instruments to boost our industry and our competitiveness, to consolidate our global leadership in these sectors of the economy of the future. so to conclude, madam president, history is tapping on our shoulder, and we must respond to this call of history with appropriate ambition and with appropriate answers.
president-in-office of the council. mrs president, thank you very much for all your remarks and comments. of course, i will forward them to the president of the european council so that they can be taken into account in the debates. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for his excellent report. i note that the main concern of your honourable members is support for ukraine, and that this marks the two main priorities of the council for the next two days, which are the enlargement and revision of the financial framework, since both directly affect support for ukraine. as regards enlargement, i would like to stress that the majority of the member states yesterday in the council felt that it was to follow the commission's recommendations, and this was reflected in the conclusions adopted yesterday and thus prepared for the decisions that the european council may take in the coming days. the same is true of the review of the multiannual financial framework: the council presidency has worked hard on the commission proposal and has taken into account the debates in this parliament and the concerns of its honourable members on various issues which have been raised today. we are confident that the final proposals, as i have said before, of the president of the european council can reach consensus in this council and thus address the outstanding questions that have been asked for the financing of european policies. one of them is, of course, support for ukraine. i take note of other questions raised by your honourable gentlemen: the question of economic governance; the question of own resources; as the commission has said, the completion of the pact on immigration and asylum; the schengen question and the integration of romania and bulgaria. i take good note and i would like to reiterate that the council presidency is still making every effort to reach agreement on all these matters.
the discussion is closed. the meeting is suspended for a few moments and will resume at 10.30 a.m. with the debate on the budget of the spanish presidency of the council. written declarations (article 171)
in writing. – it is undeniably a challenging period in this war, in ukraine’s heroic resistance against russian imperialism, as talk of war fatigue is growing in several western countries. even worse, there are some political forces willing to take ‘hostage’ aid for ukraine, all for the sake of scoring domestic political points. brave ukrainians have shown us – that if we give them the necessary weapons and support, they will be effective in liberating territories and defeating the aggressor. ukraine has already liberated more than 50% of the territory occupied by russia. ukraine has succeeded in pushing russia out of entire regions of the black sea - and striking targets in occupied crimea. however, if we now fail to find the political will to continue providing the necessary support - we will have no one but ourselves to blame. and the consequences of such cowardice, of such stupidity – will be catastrophic. we must act with an enormous sense of urgency on both sides of the atlantic! the eu must find a political resolution to unlock more than eur 50 billion worth of aid and start accession to the eu talks, which ukraine desperately needs, alongside other urgent measures to ramp up military production.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the council and commission statements: review of the spanish presidency of the council (2023/3001(rsp)) dear colleagues, we have with us the president of the government of spain, prime minister pedro sánchez, with us today. dear prime minister, welcome to the european parliament and thank you for being with us. in times of geo-political change, we have a joint responsibility to promote social justice, democracy and the rule of law. citizens look to us to defend european values. dear pedro, let me thank your country for its support to ukraine and to spain’s team for the achievements of the spanish presidency of the european council. with the artificial intelligence act, together we have delivered the world’s first set of legislation to manage ai and promote innovation. with the critical raw materials act we will secure eu supplies and european sovereignty. with a political deal on an anti-slapp directive we will protect journalists. we are nearing the end of the year, but there is still work to do, as we have just had the opportunity to talk about. our focus remains on trying to find a way forward on remaining files, particularly on migration. people expect us to deliver and we must. prime minister, the floor is yours.
president-in-office of the council. madam president, madam president von der leyen, mr vice-president šefčovič, mr borrell, ladies and gentlemen, may i begin this sitting by pointing out the unusual date on which it is being held. as you know, it is customary that the presidency of the council is held at the beginning and not at the end of the presidency when the country holding it goes to the european parliament to present its priorities. however, the advance of the general elections in spain on 23 july was not an option, as some parliamentary groups in this house correctly pointed out. i therefore come before you now, after forming a government and in the final days of our presidency, not to promise progress, but to give account of the achievements achieved and also to reflect on the challenges that remain. the wait, in my opinion, has been worth it for two reasons. firstly, because in this election interval europe has won a great ally for the next four years with a progressive government in spain. on 23 july the spanish had to choose between two antithetical projects, also for european construction. they had to choose between a coalition of the right and the far right, which aimed to repeal much of the social, economic and environmental progress that we have approved and promoted in spain over the past few years and to reapply the failed neoliberal prescriptions, which caused so much pain during the last financial crisis, and a coalition of progressive forces which, despite our differences, shared the desire to continue moving forward and to continue consolidating the european project, to continue to strive for social justice, for the dignity of the working class, for tolerance, for respect as the basic norm for democratic coexistence, for open societies, for just causes such as feminism or transitions and digital and, of course, for the strengthening of our common green europe project. fortunately, these progressive forces won the elections and, following that mandate born of the polls, formed a new progressive coalition government on november 16. with the support of an absolute majority of 179 seats in the spanish parliament, which represents the will expressed in the last general elections by more than twelve million citizens of our country, and of five political groups that are not part of the spanish government. a government which will undoubtedly always support europe, which will defend european values and principles. i believe that the council's current presidency has shown us that it is a good example of this. and now, the second reason i was announcing it. i believe that the spanish presidency has been a successful presidency, with 43 dossiers approved - more than the usual average - and very important legislative and political progress made for the european project. it is impossible, because of the rush of time, to account for all of them in this appearance. but i would like to mention at least a few of the four priorities we set at the beginning of the presidency when we presented our objectives. the first, ladies and gentlemen, is to promote the reindustrialisation of europe and achieve that open strategic autonomy. the difficulties our citizens have faced in recent years - let us remember the shortage of health products, even masks, particularly in countries where we initially suffered very strongly from the effects of the pandemic, the climate emergency and the economic, social and environmental consequences of it, putin's war in ukraine and its transfer to energy prices and the economic impact it is having on the pocket of our citizens - should not be left unaddressed. they should be used to learn and improve. the international order, which has been debated in this house, is changing and europe must change with it. the days of mass industrial relocation to other continents, blind dependence on imports, must end. we need to strengthen our domestic production capacity. we must ensure the competitiveness of those sectors where we are already leading and drive forward new industries of the future so that we have more businesses and more quality and wealthy jobs for our citizens. and we must also do so with more innovation, more training, more industrial policy and more integration into the single market. but this does not mean, ladies and gentlemen, that we should buy into the anti-globalist theses or the overnight protectionism of certain political forces, particularly the far right. because as much as we strengthen our domestic industry and gain circularity and efficiency in it - and this is fundamental to the future of the european economy - our continent will always be more prosperous by cooperating with other countries. two facts i think can be eloquent enough to express what i intend to say to you. our share of the global economy accounts for 40% of europe's gross domestic product and one in five jobs in the european union. it is therefore important that, instead of closing in on ourselves, europe launches a new trade expansion aimed at consolidating, diversifying, expanding our links with the outside world, leading the modernisation of the multilateral architecture and increasing its development aid, its commitment to the welfare of other countries, particularly those linked to the global south. this is the vision for the future that the spanish presidency has sought to build during these six months of its presidency. a vision which, of course, was supported by the 27 heads of state and government at the informal council held in the spanish city of granada and which we hope will guide the design of that new european strategic agenda to be drawn up under the belgian presidency. this is the direction we must take, and i believe that this semester europe has taken great steps towards it. the president of the european parliament has said this before and i want to stop, even for a few seconds, on this. we have passed pioneering laws to ensure our supply of critical raw materials. we have boosted our leadership in green and digital technologies. we have included a pioneering law for the promotion, development and adoption of artificial intelligence in europe, respecting our values and also the interests of our citizens. decisions have also been taken to protect and encourage the modernisation of our agriculture. i think that we should also congratulate the european parliament on the agreements we have reached and on the agreement reached yesterday on fisheries, which guarantees the future and prosperity of thousands of spanish and european families. we also approved the creation of new economic security instruments that protect us from coercion from third countries and that also guarantee the free movement of goods, services and people in times of crisis in the single market. and at the same time we have also pushed forward an external agenda of the union, with a summit that i would call historic between the european union and the celac, the community of latin american and caribbean states, with substantial progress, unfortunately not yet completed, towards that trade agreement between the european union and the mercosur, with the signing of new trade agreements with chile and new zealand, with the organization of african, caribbean and pacific states. agreements that if they are going to bring something to our citizens is to expand our exchanges with these countries and help us diversify our supply chains. the second priority we set, together with reindustrialisation and open strategic autonomy, was to move forward in the ecological transition and to take measures to adapt to the effects of this climate emergency. we did this because for us europeans and europeans, curbing climate change and environmental degradation is not just a matter of survival. it's also a huge opportunity. if we implement it well, if we are consistent and persistent over the next few years, if we don't use crises to postpone our duty to the climate emergency, i think the ecological transition will help us to be more prosperous and more competitive, it will allow us to create new industries, we will grow to an additional point of gross domestic product every year and we will be able to create more than a million new jobs in this decade alone. it will also help us to drastically reduce our dependence on energy and raw materials from abroad. let us think about europe's vulnerability to putin's russia. it will substantially lower our household electricity bills. it will make our businesses more competitive. it will reduce, moreover, little is said about this, but i think it is very important to say it here. finally, what i mean by this is that the green agenda is not, as some far-right political groups say, an obstacle to europe's competitiveness; it is its greatest hope. we must therefore celebrate the fact that under the spanish presidency the union has taken very important steps in this area. we have reached agreements to reduce industrial emissions of pollutant gases, and to move towards sustainable air transport. we have adopted several pioneering regulations that will help us to better reuse waste and have more durable, repairable and recyclable products. and we have achieved - and i would also like to thank the european parliament for its work - something very important for this presidency: a law on the restoration of nature, which will help to restore all degraded ecosystems in europe by the middle of the century. we have also put forward a common front, dear president of the commission, in the negotiations at cop28, a conference which today announced the end or at least the abandonment of fossil fuels. i think it's one of the best news we could have received from dubai in the last few days. i am convinced that in the not too distant future the regions which will grow the most will be those which know how to do so in balance with nature. i believe that, thanks to the measures we are taking, europe is in a position to lead this economy in balance with nature. reindustrialisation, adaptation and response to the climate emergency. and thirdly, social and economic justice. let me tell you something. during the second half of the 20th century, as a result of the franco dictatorship and the autocracy that we had for four decades in spain, two million spaniards - including my grandfather and father - emigrated to europe in search of jobs and opportunities, which unfortunately did not exist in our country. those migrants had to deal with some prejudice and also with rejection. but above all, they found welcoming nations, with tolerant people who opened their doors to them, people with whom many of them and they ended up marrying and forming truly european families. and it was here in central europe that our parents, mothers, grandparents discovered something very important, and that is that employment could be more than just a way of subsistence and becoming a dignified way of life. it was here that they also discovered that the welfare state guaranteed education, public health and decent pensions for the elderly when they retired from their working life. and when they returned to spain, after the end of the dictatorship, these migrants brought with them those advances and made them a country aspiration. with their vote, with their political leadership, also with the participation of trade unions, with the participation of businesses, they worked to make spain's economy, besides being prosperous, fair. today we govern spain to ensure that this reality is also maintained. what do i mean by that? europe needs to gain competitiveness. we must raise our productivity to continue to grow, and we must also ensure that the opportunities and wealth generated reach all citizens and that the cost of green and digital transitions does not fall on the most vulnerable. we have taken very important steps in this direction during our six-monthly presidency, a direction shared by the institutions of the union, by most member states, and also by social representatives, as was evident at the tripartite social summit held by the council, the commission and us as the sitting presidency of the council of the european union last october in brussels. we are about to conclude something very important, i believe, such as the historic electricity market reform, which has been much debated in this house and in the european council. a reform that, in addition to fostering the need to boost renewable energy, will make electricity prices lower, more stable and insert greater transparency into the system and therefore more information for consumers, our fellow citizens, and will protect citizens from possible abuses by multinational energy companies. and a number of measures have also been adopted to strengthen consumer rights and improve working conditions for millions of workers. and while there have been remarkable advances in the social pillar in this area, i also want to highlight others such as the launch of the european disability card and the development of new directives to combat structural violence in all european societies, such as violence against women and trafficking in human beings, as well as to broaden the rights of other vulnerable groups. we have only now to complete the review of the multiannual financial framework, and we are called to that at the council which will begin tomorrow. we also hope that before the end of the year an agreement will be reached to reform the tax rules, which will allow us to maintain sound public accounts and at the same time adequately finance all the obligations of the member states in the fields of defence, security, ecological transition, digital transformation and, of course, the public services and social benefits that our citizens deserve and demand. finally, we are confident that both agreements will be reached before the end of this month. our fourth priority has been to strengthen european unity. in recent years europe - as you know very well - has been subjected to tensions and attacks that sought one thing: to break us, to divide us. but they haven't. they've made us even more cohesive. no one is talking about leaving europe, no one is celebrating brexit, except for some far-right parties, no one is talking about leaving the european union or reducing ties between member states. on the contrary, citizens' and political support for the european project, and as a result of the response we have given to the pandemic, has grown throughout europe. we have understood something very important, ladies and gentlemen, and that is that in this world of giants, to prosper we must be more united than ever, more integrated at home and more coordinated in the face of the external challenges we are facing. for this reason, as the president of the european parliament has pointed out before, we must celebrate the progress made in the pact on migration and asylum and i am committed to working in the coming weeks to achieve a definitive pact that will be good for europe and for all our societies because it will allow us to manage irregular immigration much better from a controlled point of view. we will strengthen the external dimension with this cooperation with the countries of transit and origin. and, of course, we will also promote a regular and orderly immigration policy in our countries. i also want to say that we have concluded the parliamentary agreement reached on the treaty reform, the substantial progress made on enlargement, which was an important milestone in the informal granada council and which could be validated at the european council which will start tomorrow. the time has come for the european union to open its doors and integrate ukraine, moldova and the western balkans into its own territory. we must also celebrate the consolidation of the european political community, which brought together more than 40 heads of state and government in the spanish city of granada, and the sustained and unanimous support that the european union is providing ukraine in its war for freedom and on its path to european membership. i just want to tell you an anecdote. i started the spanish presidency last july with a visit to kiev and i hope to close it with the opening of accession negotiations for this country, once the report of the european commission is known. but above all, what we all hope, and i too, is to be able to return to kiev very soon to celebrate the withdrawal of russian troops and the arrival of a just and lasting peace in a country that is fighting for its freedom and also for ours. i want to say that this clarity and unity with which europeans have taken a position in the face of putin's illegal, unjust and unjustified invasion of ukraine has been key. it's been used to stop crime and save lives. i therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the time has come, after yesterday's events in new york at the united nations general assembly, to speak with the same clarity and unity about what is happening in israel and palestine. if we want the world to respect us as a consistent and relevant geopolitical actor, if we want our countries and citizens to be proud of our actions and see that european values are not just words, we must speak loud, clear and with one voice. we must, logically, condemn the terrorist attacks perpetrated by hamas and demand the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages currently held by hamas. we must support the fight against terrorism in the middle east and we must certainly recognize israel's right to defend itself and to exist. but with the same conviction and the same values we must say enough. enough to kill innocent civilians in gaza, including thousands of boys and girls. the bombing must cease immediately. a humanitarian ceasefire must be opened. humanitarian aid must reach people who are suffering from hunger, thirst and cold in an urgent and sufficient amount. and europe must demand compliance with international law and international humanitarian law in particular. we must actively contribute to the search for a definitive and comprehensive solution to this conflict, providing a credible, serious peace perspective that gives content to the two-state solution. this means recognizing, as has been recognized here in the european parliament in other parliaments, the existence of a palestinian state which co-exists in peace and security with the state of israel. in this area, as in ukraine, europe needs unity. and i assure you here that in the coming months, spain will, logically, do everything in its power to forge that unity. unity in diversity and adversity. i think that should be, in my opinion, the motto that should guide the european union in these crucial and complex times. i would like to end by saying that the commission is not going to be able to do this. there are political forces in this house who do not believe in europe, who consider europe a decadent, spoiled society, obsessed with undertaking the ecological transition and defending levels of equality and social welfare that we cannot afford. these political forces repudiate or ignore all the progress made over the past few decades. they fear the future and only want to flee to a glorious past, which, by the way, never existed and to which it is impossible to return. i have to tell you i don't share this pessimism. i do not share that reactionary thought. of course, there are things we need to improve. of course, there are things that don't work. but that must not make us forget that europe is still making progress. it has been doing so continuously since the end of world war ii and there is no empirical argument, no data to think that we will not continue to do so in the future. europe has all the ingredients it needs to remain what it is today: one of the most prosperous and socially advanced regions on the planet. we represent, ladies and gentlemen, half of the global investment in welfare. we're the biggest trading agent in the world. we're the first recipient of foreign direct investment and we're the second best innovation ecosystem. so what i mean is that we have the talent, the companies and the public institutions needed to lead the ecological transition and the development of the industries of the future. these are not opinions, they are contrasting and contrasting facts. and if i mention these data here, it's not to get us into complacency or inaction. there's a lot of work to do. there are many problems to be solved and many injustices to be corrected. i'm mentioning them so we're aware of our enormous potential. to understand that it is possible to build a europe with leading companies, with clean and cheap energy, with full employment, with decent wages, with good public services and with a better standard of living for the majority of our country's society. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the time has come to look to the future with more ambition and optimism than ever. because the challenge for the european union is not to prevent its decline or to resist the development of other regions of the world. our challenge is to lead a new era of global prosperity. and i, ladies and gentlemen, am convinced that we will succeed.
president of the commission. – madam president – dear roberta, prime minister – dear pedro, honourable members, when i look back at the spanish presidency, the first images that come to my mind are the breathtaking venues where spain hosted the summits: the royal collections in madrid – phenomenal; the alhambra in granada – unique. but besides the beauty of spain, this presidency will be remembered for incredibly challenging circumstances. i will never forget – it was the day after our meeting in granada, where we discussed actually the russian war in ukraine, we woke up to the news of hamas’s terrorist attack on 7 october. and these two conflicts have shaped our work in these months. but in spite of these crises, we have still managed to focus on a huge set of priorities ranging from competitiveness to climate and energy, from economic governance to migration and artificial intelligence – actually successfully just concluded. and allow me to focus on three crucial issues that have marked these six months. first, the situation in the middle east. second, our work on energy. and third, on migration. il y a deux mois, j’étais en israël, dans le kibboutz kfar aza, juste après les attaques terroristes du hamas, et j’étais à rafah le mois dernier, où nous travaillons main dans la main avec l’égypte et les nations unies pour apporter davantage d’aide vers gaza. israël a le droit de faire tout ce qui est en son pouvoir pour que l’horreur du 7 octobre ne se reproduise jamais. en même temps, israël a le devoir de faire tout ce qui est en son pouvoir pour protéger les civils, même si le hamas les utilise comme boucliers humains. en effet, le hamas pourrait mettre fin à cela en arrêtant le combat, en libérant les otages et en arrêtant de se cacher derrière des civils. la pause des hostilités nous a permis d’augmenter notre aide humanitaire à gaza avec l’aide de plusieurs ong. l’union européenne, avec le concours des états membres, a organisé 24 ponts aériens humanitaires – soit plus de 1 000 tonnes d’aide –, et 6 autres vols sont prévus jusqu’à la fin du mois. au-delà de l’aide d’urgence, nous devons aussi chercher à rétablir la voie vers une solution à deux états. en effet, il ne peut y avoir de paix que s’il existe également une perspective politique, tant pour les israéliens que pour les palestiniens. nous devons maintenant nous concentrer sur trois axes de travail. premièrement, sur les principes pour le «jour d’après», sachant que, depuis notre discussion au parlement européen, il y a un mois, le consensus que nous avons abordé, ici également, vis-à-vis de ces principes s’est renforcé. c’est une bonne nouvelle. maintenant, notre action diplomatique doit continuer, en vue notamment d’une future conférence de paix internationale. deuxièmement, il y a la situation en cisjordanie. la montée de la violence des colons extrémistes inflige d’immenses souffrances aux palestiniens. elle compromet les perspectives de paix durable et pourrait aggraver davantage l’instabilité régionale. c’est pour cela que je suis pour sanctionner ceux qui sont impliqués dans les attaques en cisjordanie. ils doivent être tenus responsables. cette violence n’a rien à voir avec la lutte contre le hamas et elle doit cesser. cela m’amène au troisième point: la nécessité d’éviter un embrasement régional. nous avons constaté une intensification des échanges de tirs de la part du hezbollah à la frontière nord d’israël. nous avons également vu les attaques des houthistes avec les missiles balistiques, les drones sur israël, mais aussi une augmentation des attaques contre les navires de commerce en mer rouge. tout cela est dangereux, mais une escalade peut être évitée, et nous devons continuer à travailler avec tous les acteurs internationaux pour contenir la violence et ouvrir des perspectives. nous devons tout faire pour mettre fin à cette guerre et pour renouveler l’espoir en ces temps sombres. meine damen und herren abgeordneten! lassen sie mich kurz zu meinem zweiten thema kommen, das diese präsidentschaft auch dominiert hat. das ist das thema energie. ich habe nicht vergessen, wie das war zu beginn des russischen krieges in der ukraine, als wir noch 50 prozent unseres pipeline-gases aus russland bezogen haben. wir waren abhängig, und russland hat versucht, uns zu erpressen – systematisch. sie erinnern sich alle: gazprom hat die speicher nicht mehr gefüllt, ein mitgliedstaat nach dem nächsten ist abgeschnitten worden vom russischen gas. wir mussten eine schwere energiekrise meistern, aber wir haben es geschafft. wir haben es geschafft, wegzukommen von russischen fossilen brennstoffen, und das in rekordzeit. die einfuhren heute betragen weniger als 10 prozent. europa hat seine kräfte gebündelt. dann sind wir immer am stärksten. seit dem vergangenen frühjahr haben wir eine gemeinsame einkaufsplattform. erinnern sie sich noch einmal daran, wie die situation vor einem jahr hier in europa war. heute haben wir 42 milliarden kubikmeter gas gemeinsam für europa beschafft. die preise sind heute fast zehn mal niedriger als am höhepunkt der krise. unsere lager sind mit 93 prozent prall gefüllt. wir sind nicht nur für diesen winter sicher, sondern wir können mit sicherheit sagen: die zeiten russischer erpressung mit öl und gas sind ein für alle mal vorbei. wir haben massiv in erneuerbare energien investiert. wir produzieren heute in europa mehr strom aus sonne und wind als aus gas. wir verbessern die infrastruktur für saubere energie. wir modernisieren unser regelwerk. und wir stehen kurz vor einer einigung über unsere strommarktreform. das ist die richtige richtung. denn dann können die menschen endlich vom ausbau der erneuerbaren energien auch profitieren, und das bei stabilen und erschwinglichen preisen. and on the international side we are moving too. the cop 28 in dubai has just reached a historical deal, and a crucial part of it is truly made in europe. we can be proud of that, because we proposed the global pledge to triple renewable energy and to double energy efficiency by 2030. some 130 countries immediately joined us, and now the whole world has endorsed our targets in the final cop declaration. this is really something to be very proud of. i think this is a global turning point. for the first time, the world is committing to transition away from fossil fuels. for the first time, there is a loss and damage fund to support the most vulnerable countries. so this has the potential to be the beginning of a new era, the post-fossil era. let’s celebrate this. europe is at the forefront of it, investing in clean and home-grown energy for all. this is the right direction of travel. honourable members, my third point is migration. in the last six months, pressure on our external borders has continued to rise, not only on the central and eastern mediterranean, but also in the atlantic and most recently at finland’s eastern border: a reckless hybrid attack orchestrated by russia. and this is yet another proof that migration is a european challenge and needs a european answer and solution. and this is the spirit that has driven our action throughout this mandate. in the recent months, we have continued advancing on four main strands of work. first, we have strengthened our external borders – bulgaria, for example, or romania. now we are supporting finland with an increased presence of frontex to patrol its borders. second, we are combating smugglers. we had almost 60 countries taking part in our international conference to form a global alliance to counter migrant smuggling, because we need to pull our weight together to fight smugglers. this is organised crime, actually internationally organised crime. so it needs an international organised answer. and to get me right, yes, we have an obligation as part of the international community to support those with the right to protection and to save lives. we have fulfilled it in the past, we fulfil it today and we will fulfil it in the future. but we decide who comes to the european union and under what circumstances, and not the smugglers and traffickers. and it is for this reason that we have proposed to update our anti-smuggling legislation. it was 20 years old, so it is now up to you, parliament and council, to bring this forward as a matter of urgency. third, on returns, we now have a roadmap focusing on seven priority countries. frontex is supporting member states from identification to joint return operations, and these countries are ready to cooperate with us. our offer is clear: we can grant more opportunities to come to europe legally: safe, legal pathways, and we expect cooperation to ensure the return of irregular migrants, that this happens. and this leads me to my fourth point: a comprehensive partnership. we need to strike a new balance with countries beyond our borders. in those countries, migration is part of a much broader picture. it includes not only border management and anti-smuggling, but also investment in the economy, people-to-people exchanges, trade, job creation, youth employment, all the root causes we know very well. and therefore this approach is now beginning to show results. for example, in tunisia, the irregular departures from sfax have slowed down and we now work to reach similar agreements with egypt soon, where migration is also part of a much, much broader picture. and we want to create a partnership on this broader picture, and with other countries of origin and transit. this is the external side. and then in the internal side we have the new pact on migration and asylum. it is about to get over the finish line. that is good. and let me thank the spanish presidency and the parliament for working patiently and working relentlessly to build common ground. with everyone’s goodwill and flexibility towards a common goal we can get this pact done and over the finish line. so let us show to our citizens that europe can manage migration effectively and humanely. let us show once again the power of europe when it stands tall and united. thank you very much, and long live europe!
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, so it is obviously another supporter and fan of ms von der leyen during the plenary. so, mr sánchez, welcome and congratulations on your election as prime minister of spain. you know, politically i’m not happy, but as democrats we respect the outcome. you are present today to present the main outcome of the spanish presidency and you reported today quite technically, but you are not here as an official. you are here as a prime minister and politically, i have to say, the eu presidency is not a success story, and i give you some arguments for this: you spoke about the economic future of europe, mercosur, 700 million consumers, the biggest single market in the world. we expected that you make sure that we sign it, that south america doesn’t fall into the hand of china. have you spoken with macron about this? ukraine membership support, you spoke about this. have you also spoken with orbán about this? if the council fails in this historic moment this week, it is also sánchez’s failure. on the hamas attacks to israel, you overshadowed the last council meeting, you divided europe when you were applauded by hamas terrorists, probably to please more the left sumar, but not to unite europe. mr sánchez, you have spoken and also i have spoken about democracy, and the basic principle of democracy is to tell the people the truth before the elections. you cannot promise not to give an amnesty until three days before the elections, and then give it. you cannot be in power for five years saying that an amnesty is not constitutional, and then you do it. yesterday, the spanish parliament started a debate about the amnesty law, a law which your socialist predecessor, felipe gonzalez, opposed publicly and also called a risk for the spanish constitution. europe is worried. the commission is asking serious questions, mr sánchez. today i only want to prioritise one special point: in the coalition text you signed, you promised puigdemont a special committee in the spanish parliament to check judgements, a special committee on ‘lawfare’ that goes fundamentally against the rule of law, against the separation of power. and yesterday in the spanish parliament, when the team of puigdemont were putting individual judges in the speech, even the socialist team in the parliament were silent and shocked about what happened there. so i have only one question: will you go with the socialist team in the parliament in favour of such a committee, yes or no? and i am sure you will not deliver today, i am sure, and that is then a proof that the investigation from the commission is urgently needed to have a look at what is happening in spain. europe is proud about very strong socialists: willy brandt, francois mitterrand. and today, iratxe, we see now the developments in spain, where people are concerned. we see the problems in portugal, where the prime minister’s chief of staff was caught with eur 78 000 in his office in bags of cash. costa immediately resigned. we had this kaili case now one year ago. and just to remember, to recall ourselves, it is not a parliament scandal, it is until now only a socialist scandal which is on the table. we have also slovakia, where we have a pro-putin team being there, still a member of the s&d group in europe, pellegrini and also fico. so i think you have a lot to do in your camp to clarify the situation there. on the european level, mr sánchez, i finally want to express one general point. we may have different opinions on content – socialists, christian democrats – but for this european project this was always clear to unite, that europe can only stand on two feet and not only on one. that’s why socialists and christian democrats must find a common understanding. that was exactly the same as what alberto feijóo – together with others, greens and renew – was proposing in spain, to bring the country together, to heal the wounds, to exclude separatists, extremists from left and right from getting power. you refused this. i want to underline that for us as epp, the next commission must be based on a cooperation on the centre parties in this parliament. and i hope that the european socialists will not do the same as you did: to refuse the cooperation with the centre parties in europe. you will meet tomorrow in brussels my predecessor as president of the european people’s party, you will meet donald tusk, now elected prime minister of poland. he defeated kaczyński and he will restore rule of law in poland. that is epp. that is alberto feijóo’s party in europe, and we are proud about this. tusk will bring back rule of law to poland, and we will also do the same in spain. madam president, as a final point, let me recall the words of martin luther king, which should be an inspiration for the upcoming christmas break. i quote: ‘every man must decide whether he will walk in the light of creative altruism or in the darkness of destructive selfishness.’ dear madam president, madam commission president, ministers, dear colleagues, this is a quote which we can reflect on. i wish you all a merry christmas and a happy new year.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr president, welcome to the european parliament, to the house of speech and to the house of understanding. thank you so much for your leadership in the courageous, historic and united response during putin's pandemic and war against ukraine to protect the middle and working classes. because despite the resistance of the right and the far right, you have managed to lead the construction of a union with greater social justice. president sanchez, in front of a right and an extreme right who understand the homeland only from hatred, insult and disloyalty, you have the social democratic family by your side to continue leading the great transformations that europe needs. because our common homeland, the european homeland, is built on a more social union that guarantees fair wages, minimum incomes and paid work and also a housing policy for the most needy and especially the youngest. the european homeland is built on greater equality, because the 21st century is the century of women. and no triumph will be more important than the eradication of gender-based violence, a male-dominated violence that denies the far right. the european homeland is being built with more individual rights and more public freedoms in a union where lgbt people can also feel, think and love as they please, in a union that respects immigrants under a new pact on migration and asylum based also on solidarity between states. the european homeland is being built with a union at the forefront of the fight against climate change, because we know from science that we have to limit the rise in temperature and that we have no alternative but to comply with the green pact, reform the electricity market to reduce prices and accelerate the use of renewable energy. the european homeland is built on open strategic autonomy; it is built on a more humane digital transformation; it is built on fiscal rules that can allow for the maintenance and strengthening of public services; and it is built on turning the european union into a peace exporting power. because if we respond unitedly and firmly to putin's war on ukraine, we must show the same unity and firmness to lead an international peace conference that makes possible the right of israel and palestine to live in peace. how can the people's party and vox fly the flag of patriotism when they have tried to torpedo the implementation of the 160 billion euros of the recovery plan in spain, when they have disqualified the iberian exception, which has resulted in a saving of 5 billion euros in the price of electricity, and when they have tried to boycott a pension reform that would guarantee purchasing power to our seniors? mr weber, i was going to ask you what your european project is. i know what his project was: to make mr abascal vice president of spain, the same one who takes pictures with meloni, orban and morawiecki, the same one who asks the spanish people to hang president sánchez from his feet. so lessons on the rule of law, none, and least of all when your party has been blocking the renewal of the general council of the judiciary for five years. their alliance with the far right has only one project: anti-europe. because nothing is more anti-european than building walls against the weakest; nothing is more anti-european than going against science; nothing is more anti-european than endangering coexistence by confronting compatriots. dear president sánchez, last july 23rd you managed to curb the reactionary wave in spain. your victory brought hope to the democratic forces of europe to continue building a fairer union, so that today's and tomorrow's generations, looking back, can say that the european union was up to par.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear colleagues, dear prime minister, dear presidents, more than eur 620 billion are needed for the green transition annually. over eur 125 billion are needed for digitalisation in europe. each year, eur 384 billion are needed within the next 10 years for the reconstruction of ukraine. defence, education, you name it: we urgently need investment and especially after the breakthrough at the cop this morning, this is also about our global credibility. because inaction, colleagues, will only make the future more expensive. and, dear prime minister, i am not going to lie, we would have hoped – and we still hope – for a more progressive negotiation on the reform of the stability and growth pact in the past six months, because we both know that if we are not careful, we are sleepwalking into the next crisis, despite the fact that we should know better by now. europe has no time to lose. europe can under no circumstances fall back into the failed ideology of austerity. during the corona pandemic, we have seen that our critical infrastructure is far more than tracks and roads. debt rules that are tying us down disproportionately are a barrier for prosperity, for justice. they are a barrier for our common future. and especially as a german right now, i can tell you i know what i’m talking about. this is not for the greens and their climate investment. this is for our economic competitiveness of this continent. functioning infrastructure is crucial to connect this continent even closer, to build a truly integrated single market. the us is massively investing. china is moving. the world is not waiting for us, colleagues. just europe is lagging behind because we have a number of ideological dinosaurs in our midst who do not understand that smart investment is needed right now. colleagues, this is for our citizens. this is for future-proof, good jobs. this is for a strong industry. this is for a common european future. so we count on you in this debate. and lastly – and we all know that this is probably going to be a very noisy debate today – prime minister, you are very warmly welcome here because we are happy that there is a pro-european, progressive government in spain that is going to fight with us to shape the future instead of another far-right party that wants to destroy europe.
on behalf of the ecr group. mrs president, mr sanchez, you will go down in history. generations of spaniards will study in history books their narcissistic, manipulative, unempatious and unscrupulous moral behavior. millions of spaniards live on the poverty line and you decided to squeeze the middle classes by raising taxes and distributing european funds among public bodies to weave your personal favors. millions of europeans walk unsafe on the streets, but you decided to surrender the borders to the arrival of mass immigration, fueling the business of the human trafficking mobs. there are millions of spaniards out of work, and you're putting your friends in positions of responsibility in an unprecedented nepotism. and when the courts overturn their decisions, then it calls into question the legitimacy of the judiciary. all of europe knows him. his narcissism has ruined the spanish presidency. none of the problems that haunt spain has been on the european agenda: water policy, the defence of farmers and livestock farmers against unfair foreign competition, the fight against depopulation. if it were not enough, he now wants to strike a blow to democracy, trample on the constitution and end equality between spaniards. all european policy over the last 250 years has been directed towards justice, ending privileges and bringing the principle of equality before the law to its ultimate consequences. you're on the opposite path. that a special law, manifestly unconstitutional, be passed to benefit a certain group of people who committed the most serious crimes against the nation is a centuries-old setback. that judges are deprived of their constitutional function of judging and executing the judiciary and that all judges, without exception, denounce their blow to the rule of law is a centuries-old setback. for you, what was unconstitutional yesterday and illegal today is necessary, because you have to pay the bill that those have presented to you for your personal survival. it's the biggest act of political corruption in our history. you, your party, your foolish propaganda, lack all authority and legitimacy. they are the result of a deception of the spanish people and a criminal agreement made in a sordid hotel in brussels with a gang of looters and fugitives from justice. but you're so cowardly you didn't even come to sign it personally. look, mr. sánchez, in february 1936, a popular front as anti-democratic and anti-national as yours amnestied those who had risen against the republican constitutional order and the unity of the nation. they also claimed that their motive was the pacification and tranquility of national life. months later, the spiritual leader of those, companys, became the political responsible for the murder of more than 8,000 spaniards. i started by telling him it's gonna go down in history, and it's gonna go down. he will go down in history as the perjury president; he will go down in history for destroying the guarantees of the rule of law; he will go down in history for trying to destroy everything our parents and grandparents built with effort; he will go down in history as the president who cannot walk the streets of spain out of fear of the spanish people. even worse, you are responsible for what happens to spain and the spanish people if this law is passed. but do not hurry: neither your denunciations nor your threats will silence us. we will continue to fight the spaniards in the streets, in institutions and in the courts. in the face of the tyrant, permanent mobilization.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, mr president, welcome to the european parliament. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we live in a time of great challenges. today the far right is the first force in the vast majority of european countries, and spain is an exception. and the reason is none other than the coalition government with unidas podemos, which proposed and defended with nails and teeth a social shield and courageous measures that have proven to be the best antidote to the far right. during the spanish semester, important progress is being made. examples of this are the law on the restoration of nature, a pioneering law on artificial intelligence or the unlocking of the electricity market reform. the scandal that followed when we proposed the need for a gas cap is still curious, and it is a common example and practice in the european union today. but it's not enough. in order to achieve energy autonomy, it is necessary to promote public energy companies, to deploy renewable energy from strategic regions. two big losers: the social pillar and progress in equality. there is nothing that will break the european project more than inequality and a social pillar that is left out of the priorities and consolidation. spain has been a pioneer in advancing women's rights. that's how it's been recognized many times here. however, the failure to negotiate the directive on gender-based violence under the umbrella of justice has led to a lack of priority and a lack of feminist perspective. the black hole: the abandonment of human rights. today a pact on migration and asylum is being negotiated which legalizes human rights violations, fails to address the causes and lacks the necessary european solidarity. it is not acceptable today to remain silent and not take concrete action to end impunity and stop the planned genocide in gaza. spain can and must promote the suspension of the association agreement, the arms embargo and sanctions on those responsible. there will be no european project without credibility. if spain is an exception today, it is because we never give up. the far right, the barbarians, are only allowed more rights.
madam president, president von der leyen, president sanchez, in your video message to inaugurate the spanish presidency of the council, you announced ambition and called for a europe of people that meets their needs and demands. other previous presidencies have expressed similarly and we will certainly hear it again in the future. the problem of europe has never been promises. the european programme is the fulfillment of these promises, because the failure to do so gives rise to mistrust, a mistrust that can endanger even a project as solid as the european union. the europe of the people is nothing if you do not listen to them, if you do not put them at the centre of decisions. notice: today i speak to you in your mother tongue, but i cannot do so in mine. millions of europeans who have catalan as their mother tongue cannot exercise fundamental rights in our own language, because that europe of the people you were supposed to defend during your presidency does not include us if we speak catalan. our freedom of speech in this house is worth less than yours. president sanchez, opportunities must be seized when they arise. if they are allowed to go too far out of fear or incapacity, the consequences are never pleasant.
madam president, mr sanchez, from a catalan and a spanish woman to a spanish woman, i will speak to you with my hand on my heart and i will tell you what millions of spaniards would like to say to your face. spain says no to an amnesty, a blow to democracy and very serious crimes of terrorism and corruption, no to an amnesty that you denied in the campaign and that creates first and second spaniards, no to an intolerable amnesty, according to felipe gonzález, the socialist president who put spain in the european union. spain says no to threatening judges and creating judiciary instrumentation commissions. and he says no to the supreme infamy of transferring parliament's national sovereignty to a clandestine table of shame outside the european union, with an international mediator between the spanish government and fugitives from justice. what a european presidency. mr sanchez, do you really think that a few more months in moncloa will compensate for the destruction of judicial independence, the separation of powers and the equality of spaniards before the law? zero for patriotism, ten for opportunism. but how wrong you and your partner, the fugitive puigdemont. spain is not surrendering. spain is not laughed at, because we are a great nation, one of the great democracies of europe. and that is why the spanish will continue to say no to amnesty on the streets, in the courts and here in europe. ladies and gentlemen, sanchez's amnesty is to sell spain's dignity for seven votes to govern. your story is false, mr. sanchez. there is no generosity, no grandeur, no concord of any kind here. here is only the personal interest of a politician without principles or words who runs away with everything to continue to rule. impunity for power: that's your legacy, mr. sanchez. and europe hears the cry of spain. the sanchez amnesty is the simultaneous decay of european values and spanish democracy.
mrs president, mrs von der leyen, mr vice-president borrell, mr sanchez, we have been waiting for you in this parliament for six months and you have finally done what you always do: explain to us some priorities that are not true, because you cannot explain the real priorities. i wish i had used these six months to move forward with the union's major challenges: unlocking the migration pact, pushing for trade agreements as important as mercosur, or getting the much-needed agreement on tax rules. but no, you have used this time to screw up the spanish citizens with early elections in which you betrayed everything you promised and with which you have built a wall, according to your own words, to divide the spanish. he has used this time to put ministers in european posts and half-world embassies or to force the debate on co-official languages out of mere interest, wasting the political capital of this presidency. and, of course, he has used this time to grant an amnesty law that violates the principle of equality between spanish citizens and gives impunity to fugitives from justice, fugitives who look down on us from above. they look at us with sorrow, because yesterday their colleagues also pointed out judges and police from the congress of deputies. you who care so much about history, know that yours, if you don't rectify it, won't end well.
madam president, mr president, we are in strasbourg and we are going to talk about europe. i share your europeanism with your speech today: the need to defend the unity of europe, the achievements of europe, especially at a time when we have a far right with the shameful complicity of the right. i don't know if i can share the optimism of the end of your speech. you and i are more or less of the same generation, but do you know what the difference is between our parents and us? that they could be sure they were leaving a better world for their sons and daughters. i don't know if we can be so sure when we see the rates of poverty, inequality, precariousness and lack of social cohesion in our societies. there is one thing that your presidency has not achieved, which is the official language of catalonia... (the speaker speaks in an unofficial language).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president sánchez, the history of this six-month presidency has been intertwined from the very beginning with the fate of your governments. the commission has already decided to take the necessary measures to ensure that the community's citizens are able to participate in the process of transition. to satisfy the secessionists and preserve his seat, he even tried to make catalan and basque official languages of the european union, risking creating another disturbing precedent. not satisfied, he traded an ambitious reform of the stability and growth pact to overcome the austerity of the past in exchange for the eib presidency for his trusted minister nadia calviño. not only that, but he has also pushed through some of the green deal measures, even making them worse, as is happening these days with the packaging regulation. i mean, a semester with a lot more shadows than lights. the same shadows we fear await millions of spaniards, increasingly concerned about the future of their great nation.
madam president, president sanchez, you recently called the genocide in gaza indiscriminate killing. he was insulted, vilified and mistreated by the israeli regime, as he was with the un secretary general for claiming international law. the israeli regime considers itself legitimate to despise, insult and... well, i don't mean rude words to anyone who claims international law. not only are children and girls dying here in gaza, but international law is dying. if we do nothing to stop this, we can overthrow all the architecture that was built after world war ii to solve problems between countries peacefully. but let's be consistent, mr. sanchez. we cannot claim international law and consider this a massacre and buy the israeli regime four and a half million euros in proven war material on the heads of palestinian children. spain has a responsibility. spain has the capacity to influence. history will judge us... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker)
madam president, honorable prime minister, in your speech today, you claimed that the greatest achievement of your successive presidency was to stay in power. this opinion, this approach, is based on a complete misunderstanding of the successive presidency and the functioning of the european union. it's not to be used for this, not to win an election, to stay in power. well, your honor, ukraine must and can help. however, it is clearer than the day that, according to the current position, neither ukraine nor the european union is ready to start eu accession negotiations. the brussels bureaucracy is doing everything it can to try to override the interests of the european people, bypassing their views, and by using the most brutal political pressure possible, to rush to force ukraine to join. as neither ukraine nor the european union is ready to join ukraine, ukraine may enter into a political pressure exercise that will break the eu's accession.
madam president, mr president sánchez, you told mr kaczyński in december 2020 that the courts in poland are politically dependent on the opposition. a little over a week ago, he said that public institutions have definitely been instrumented in prosecuting political adversaries in judicial cases. mr. sanchez, what's the difference? do you know or do you know of a rule of law in which parliamentary committees investigate judicial decisions in pending and future cases? the spanish parliament is being made into a court, the big brother, the big judge who judges the real courts. that is instrumentalisation of justice. it's the political manipulation of justice in exchange for seven votes. yesterday, a similar process began as the salem witch hunt. finding judges, prosecutors and cops. and we are being persuaded that violating judicial independence is normal and necessary. i just remember a well-known spanish saying: i don't believe in witches, but there are, there are.
(the speaker speaks a few words at the beginning of her speech in an unofficial language) .... her presidency has achieved good agreements for europe, some linked to the pact we signed to support her in her investiture. we demand that the transeuropean networks which eliminate bottlenecks critical to the atlantic front be completed within a reasonable time. we agreed to improve the link between our self-government, the basque concert, the navarre convention and the ertzaintza in the european institutional system; to deepen the social model so that the ecological and digital transition does not leave anyone behind and is based more on technology than on ideology. it is urgent to create a regional perte that will speed up the arrival of next generation funds into the productive fabric and boost an atlantic macro-region. we will be demanding with the presence of basque in the union. we support dialogue and negotiation as a european solution to territorial and national identity conflicts. diversity, when recognized and respected, unites us. to treat the parliamentary acts that express it as crimes, faces. the proposed amnesty will reset the situation in catalonia and strengthen the rule of law.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i represent many galicians in this parliament who want another model of europe: a europe where we are all heard. because here many policies are being decided that affect our lives: european funds, labour, energy, the productive sectors, transport, the economy. because there is another europe possible, that of peoples who, like ours, have never been well with either centralism or fascism. we must therefore, mr president, stand on the democratic and anti-fascist side, on the side of peace, freedom and tolerance, away from insults, from intransigence, away from the corrupt and neo-fascist discourses that are spreading outside europe. what a show the far right and the far right are doing in this house today. and they still boasted they were democrats. we know this well in galicia, where the people's party has shortcomings in employment, in social spending investment, in the misuse of european funds and in the flight of professionals. i would therefore like to speak also of the other europe, the galician europe. (the president withdraws the speaker.)
madam president, colleagues, i regret that the passing of the spanish presidency has not honoured the greatness of my country. perhaps experience shows that when a person's dignity is not respected, there are no limits to his manipulation. women are clear about it. he's left us all alone. mr. sanchez, your government has reduced sentences and released sexual assailants. it doesn't stop those who denigrate us and justifies rape. with this logic, it is not surprising that there is a lack of repair in pacting with terrorists and remaining silent in the face of atrocities. under his leadership, criminals are legitimized; worse, they are made stronger and victims are spared. yesterday in the spanish congress was presented an amnesty law that perverts the constitutional order and betrays our unity. it leaves us with more unemployment, debt, dependency and poverty; the opposite of what it promises. his melody, bla, bla, bla, bla, has stopped deceiving. spain has woken up. and europe will follow us.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. the spanish presidency itself is not much to be said. it's a little more of the same, or you could describe it as the title of a movie: and every day the marmella greets. the european union has not been able to put emphasis on getting the european union off its course of centralism. the commission has not been able to push for institutional reform, at least in the debate on bringing the european union back to the people, to the values. the commission has also failed to set accents. the commission has failed to put an emphasis on the ukraine-russia conflict, to bring the parties to a table, to end the death penalty by negotiation and to ensure the security of energy supply in europe accordingly. all this didn't happen here. i am not sure what the commission is going to do next year. and my hope is that a vast majority of the centre-right political alliances could very well move the european union towards a better future. and the second is that in the second half of the year, when the hungarians take over the presidency of the council, which many of you do not want, i hope that you will all agree to the rules and accept that our hungarian friends will be able to move the european union in a good direction away from centralism, and that, even if there is still war between ukraine and russia, peace will be promoted. here are the accents that give confidence, now that wasn't the case. and let me just say this: when others talk about left-wing groups, the conversation time is extended, when we talk, it's turned off. the same is true in a ...
madam president, welcome, mr president sánchez, the expectations for this presidency were enormous and it has been seen as an opportunity for social progress, even though the very spanish right-wing parties in this house have tried to boycott it. today we are balancing and europe is more social, green and feminist than it used to be. social dialogue, democracy at work, occupational safety and health, health care, the law on the restoration of nature or green collective bargaining have been promoted. of course, you can always go further. we are following ilo convention no 190, but we could weaken the directive on combating violence against women if we do not incorporate the 'yes is yes'. the emphasis on strategic autonomy has been made too dependent on questionable trade agreements such as mercosur's, and the urgency to move forward on the migration pact can jeopardize the right to asylum. the reform of the renewable energy electricity market has been agreed, but we run the serious risk of replacing coal mines with lithium mines or fertile fields with solar megaparks. we can be proud of it, though. in spain and europe, the right is only combated through social policies. noise doesn't improve anyone's life.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. the sanctions against russia led to further deterioration of living standards, the flight of industries from germany and an economic recession. the rising migration caused more housing, more government debt, and more hate demonstrations and violence in our cities. national states, such as hungary, did stand up for the interests of the citizens. hungary and slovenia prevented the corrupt ukraine from receiving 50 billion. poland, hungary and slovenia block imports of contaminated ukrainian grain. and austria and hungary are opposed to ukraine's accession, which will cost the citizen 189 billion. the citizens are fed up with this misery and are showing a tremendous profit for anti-eu and anti-immigration parties. i advise the council: stop this disastrous european union and let the member states join the brics for peace and prosperity.
madam president, mr sánchez, let us be honest: the council presidency is the best opportunity any country has to influence the european agenda and to promote itself. unfortunately, mr sánchez, you lost this opportunity for spain. what did you do? you lost the regional election in may. you called for an early parliamentary election at the beginning of the council presidency and lost it, then spent the whole council presidency negotiating an amnesty law with persons who acted against the spanish constitution. while spanish diplomats made efforts here, we had the impression that you were more preoccupied by granting amnesty to separatists than by the success of the presidency. let me be clear: the amnesty law concerns the european union. a government granting amnesty to people who broke the constitution attacks the rule of law. the amnesty law is an attack upon the rule of law, and we care about the rule of law because it is a european value. and let me be clear: whoever wants to access european funds needs to respect european values. the amnesty law and the attack upon the rule of law risks blocking european funds to spain. we saw that happening for hungary, we saw that happening for poland. it can happen for spain as well. we do not want that to happen. we want to help the people of spain but we ask you, prime minister sánchez, not to be an obstacle in the desire of the european union to help the people of spain.
mrs president, ladies and gentlemen, 'there will come a time when people will want to hang sanchez by his feet': these are the very serious words of santiago abascal, leader of the spanish far right. i am very much in favour of the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment. despite all this, giorgia meloni invited abascal to her party party: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission, and we are therefore not prepared to accept them. spain is an ally instead of one who wants a stronger europe in the world, with growth-oriented budgetary rules, a force for peace and international law in the face of the conflicts around us. the spanish presidency, which is about to close, has achieved important results: in my case, i cannot help but mention the agreement on the artificial intelligence regulation, which i have been and am the rapporteur for. a very great achievement for citizens, workers and businesses. president, please!
madam president, mr president, in preparing this minute, i have looked for the paper on the priorities for the semester which we were given in june and when i opened it you appeared. not the four chapters; you, your portrait. as in oscar wilde's portrait of dorian gray, a portrait has appeared that faithfully reflected the sins of the protagonist, not what you have explained here. what are the sins that this portrait reflects? irresponsibility, pushing the general elections ahead when the semester started; selfishness, using the semester to secure its investment, negotiating with criminals by seven votes; lying, negotiating with criminals in brussels while saying that in spain i wasn't doing it. but do you know what the greatest sin is? sacrifice the most sacred european principles and values of this house - equality and the rule of law - for its own good. remember one thing: the end of the portrait of dorian gray. you cannot break his portrait; his term, his presidency, will go down in history for his irresponsibility and selfishness and for sacrificing european values by seven votes. congratulations to you .
madam president, president sánchez, there is a global reactionary coalition and, just a few days ago, we saw a very illustrative image of it, with vox leaders photographing themselves victorious with javier milei. by the way, so did the king of spain, who seemed much happier than the day you took the oath of office. in front of them, there should be a global progressive coalition, capable of pushing transformative agendas. but the success of this coalition requires courage and leadership. and i regret to say that we have not always seen them during the council presidency. for example, everything indicates that your presidency will not be able to reach an agreement for the directive against gender-based violence. on the other hand, i admit that you have shown them, even if you are obliged, the amnesty law. because at last they seem to have understood that the conflict between catalonia and spain is also a european folder and therefore the recipe is also european. more pact and more democracy. so let us now speak on equal terms about solutions. we put the referendum on the table. what are you putting on the table, mr. sanchez?
madam president, mr president, this podium is a place where many heads of government and state come by, but you are truly a unique case. he is the only prime minister to occupy this podium who has left his government in the hands of a man who is fleeing justice for some of the most serious crimes a politician can commit. that's his presidency. this is unprecedented, however hard you try, because, by the way, if we talk about the middle east, israel has withdrawn its ambassador and hamas congratulates you. if we talk about energy, it turns out that spain is increasing its gas purchases from putin. if we talk about immigration, we know how to solve the immigration crisis in the canary islands: uncontrollably centrifuging immigrants on the peninsula. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, which are in fact not yet in force. as europe strives to strengthen the rule of law, you come here with the message that enforcing the law is bad for coexistence. the rule of law means submitting power to the institutions. you come here with the message, representing the institutions subject to power. the rule of law is judicial independence and it is the judges who were severely insulted yesterday in congress by their partners - judges of all trends - who have denounced what their government pacts mean. we are europe's first political force. we regret that you are going in that direction, towards institutional and democratic degradation. we will not follow them; we will continue to fight for a europe of law, law and institutions
in writing. the socialists can be very proud of the spanish presidency's report, because it has been able to meet its objectives by adopting more than 45 legislative documents. this is a higher than usual figure, which highlights our commitment to the major transformations that our union needs and in particular to the reindustrialisation of europe and the strengthening of its open strategic autonomy, as well as to the progress of the ecological transition and social and economic justice. pedro sánchez has managed once again to lead the construction of a more just, more social, more tolerant, more feminist and more green union, despite the resistance of the right and the far right, who only understand the homeland from hatred, lies and disloyalty. in the face of the popular party and vox, which have spent the whole semester trying to torpedo the implementation of spain's 160 billion recovery plan, the iberian exception and pension reform, the socialists have successfully pushed forward an ambitious progressive agenda to improve the lives of our citizens.
in writing. the socialists can be very proud of the spanish presidency's report, because it has been able to meet its objectives by adopting more than 45 legislative documents. this is a higher than usual figure, which highlights our commitment to the major transformations that our union needs and in particular to the reindustrialisation of europe and the strengthening of its open strategic autonomy, as well as to the progress of the ecological transition and social and economic justice. pedro sánchez has managed once again to lead the construction of a more just, more social, more tolerant, more feminist and more green union, despite the resistance of the right and the far right, who only understand the homeland from hatred, lies and disloyalty. in the face of the popular party and vox, which have spent the whole semester trying to torpedo the implementation of spain's 160 billion recovery plan, the iberian exception and pension reform, the socialists have successfully pushed forward an ambitious progressive agenda to improve the lives of our citizens.
in writing. the socialists can be very proud of the spanish presidency's report, because it has been able to meet its objectives by adopting more than 45 legislative documents. this is a higher than usual figure, which highlights our commitment to the major transformations that our union needs and in particular to the reindustrialisation of europe and the strengthening of its open strategic autonomy, as well as to the progress of the ecological transition and social and economic justice. pedro sánchez has managed once again to lead the construction of a more just, more social, more tolerant, more feminist and more green union, despite the resistance of the right and the far right, who only understand the homeland from hatred, lies and disloyalty. in the face of the popular party and vox, which have spent the whole semester trying to torpedo the implementation of spain's 160 billion recovery plan, the iberian exception and pension reform, the socialists have successfully pushed forward an ambitious progressive agenda to improve the lives of our citizens.
in writing. the socialists can be very proud of the spanish presidency's report, because it has been able to meet its objectives by adopting more than 45 legislative documents. this is a higher than usual figure, which highlights our commitment to the major transformations that our union needs and in particular to the reindustrialisation of europe and the strengthening of its open strategic autonomy, as well as to the progress of the ecological transition and social and economic justice. pedro sánchez has managed once again to lead the construction of a more just, more social, more tolerant, more feminist and more green union, despite the resistance of the right and the far right, who only understand the homeland from hatred, lies and disloyalty. in the face of the popular party and vox, which have spent the whole semester trying to torpedo the implementation of spain's 160 billion recovery plan, the iberian exception and pension reform, the socialists have successfully pushed forward an ambitious progressive agenda to improve the lives of our citizens.
mr president, mr commissioner, more than 40% of young people in europe are stressed or anxious most of the time. and it's time you understood that permanent uncertainty is preventing us from building our lives. the european union must defend the rights of young people. i myself have wanted to contribute to this over the years, but today there are many here who say they are concerned and do nothing for us. to the colleagues of the popular party, who are absent at the moment, i want to say that defending the rights of young people is to support the rise in the minimum wage, to vote for the prohibition of unpaid work and to regulate the price of rent. it is also supporting affordable, high-quality social housing strategies or supporting minimum incomes, measures that they never usually support. politicians owe it to citizens and urge them to ensure quality jobs and to arm our welfare state. i am not only a member of the socialist group, but also of the whole social democratic family, because right now there is no time to lose.
mr president, commissioner, mr secretary of state, many of the difficulties young people face in developing an independent and dignified life have already been pointed out. i will focus on one of them only, which is housing access, because this parliament has already put forward numerous proposals which the european commission has not taken into account. in the report adopted more than two years ago, we called for, inter alia, an integrated strategy for public social housing and affordable housing, measures for young people's access to housing through the youth guarantee, or a reassessment of the threshold for the rate of overcapacity (the current 40% does not reflect reality). other proposals from my social democratic group were rejected by right-wing groups: the ban on evictions, the control of rental prices or measures to combat real estate speculation. so there's a long way to go. the european commission has a wide range of powers to support certain reforms, in particular the definition of services of general economic interest, to advocate a universalist model of social housing, which is implemented in such a way as to avoid segregation of young people and to guarantee them a decent and dignified quality of life.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, it has been one year since the case of morocco and the only thing this parliament has actually done is reform the rules of procedure to require members to declare remunerated activities above €5 000 per annum. as if these measures had caused the socialists involved to declare the suitcases full of bills that the belgian police found. has president sánchez, who was here this morning, declared the bags that the vice president of venezuela, delcy rodriguez, passed through barajas airport, in breach of the sanctions imposed by the council? it is an insufficient measure which has the sole objective of trying to wash the image of this parliament and which will ultimately only serve to point out to the member that he is pursuing a legitimate professional activity. what the citizens are asking is for an explanation of the favourable treatment to morocco, which receives millions of dollars in aid for its primary sector, which then competes illegally with our farmers, and for a review of the votes that may have benefited qatar or morocco. has the free entry of lobbies, ngos and multinationals who run through these hallways and offices been restricted? has the non-existent control regime on the origin and destination of ngos' funds tightened up? this week we learned from a journalistic investigation in spain that the son of esteban gonzález pons, former vice-president of the european people's party group, was the representative of gazprom in spain, the leading russian gas supplier, aged only 25. did mr gonzález pons state this in his statement on conflicts of interest? well, obviously not. i therefore call again for a review of all the votes that have been able to harm european citizens and benefit those countries. i would like to ask the bureau again to investigate all the cases and to propose, indeed, strong measures to prevent this from happening again.
mr. president, corruption needs corrupt and corruptible people. and in these institutions it makes sense, and we lead them we try to limit those who can be corrupted, the corruptible. but what about the corrupt? what about the ones who put the money in? what about the ones that put the euros on? what about the bags? there, buddy, there we look the other way. because this case of morocco qatargate morocco too, which some forget does not demand responsibility from the corrupt. we have done nothing to the corrupt. nothing is nothing. - what? we have not demanded anything from you, absolutely nothing. and the question is, why? why knowing who has corrupted members of this house? why have we not told them anything or demanded anything from them? perhaps it is also a question to ask: why not point out corrupt people and try to take action against them?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, we are here to debate a report which seeks the automatic and imperative recognition of membership in all member states, whatever the way in which it has taken place, going beyond public policy, legal tradition and civil law in the member states. this means recognizing through the back door, fraudulently, surrogacy and multiparenting and ending family law in each member state, unlawfully harmonizing legislation and threatening national identity. substitute pregnancy is an attack on human dignity. it is a practice that hides horrific realities: children without parents; women in vulnerable situations, exploited, neglected, abused; people turned into objects of trafficking. but europe was built on the opposite: the sacredness of human life, its non-negotiable, non-transferable, irrevocable character. that is the dignity of man, which is in article 2 of our treaty. that paco and susana can take a catalog and select a ukrainian girl because they like the color of her eyes to bring the genetic material to carry their child in natasha's womb doesn't make alexandra, natasha, paco, susana, or the child happier or freer. substitute gestation constitutes the objectification of the female body and exposes women and children to the risk of being victims of human trafficking exploitation. above the right of adults to have a child, there is the right of children to have their parents. we should promote birth, protect families, improve national adoption. that's the way. it's time to say we don't want a human market.
mr president, the 28th cpc will allow the world to take a step in the right direction in what is the greatest challenge for humanity in this century: global warming. it has shown that climate multilateralism works, with a space for dialogue and standards to address common objectives and common challenges, and i want to say that in a world like today, dislocated, with so much competition between great powers, it is something to stand out. the conclusions of the conference are as follows: we have launched and operated a loss and damage fund claimed by the global south and, moreover, half of the resources committed come from the european union or the eu member states; we will triple renewable energy and double energy efficiency by 2030, a goal that has been led by europe, and finally we have sent the right message: we are transitioning to a world without fossil fuels, without fossil fuels. it's a change that's going to face huge, gigantic economic interests. but we send the clear message: capital and regulators are needed to invest in technology and innovation and also to generate standards that allow us to make this substitution. it is important to note that all this, this great dialogue, has been led by europe and the european union. i should also like to congratulate the european commission, commissioner hoekstra and the presidency of the council of the european union, the spanish presidency, and especially teresa ribera, who has been able to launch major commitments led by europe for the change the world needs.
mr president, the truth is, when you talk about victory, i don't know what you mean. victory against whom? because wars are won against someone. against whom? against the middle classes and against the european popular classes? because who's the one who lost here? they're talking about saving the oceans here. i agree with you. but how do they want to control ocean emissions when, on the other hand, they are promoting the acquisition of agricultural and livestock products from other continents that must be brought into the big markets, rather than supporting agriculture and livestock in europe? the cop ends and the elites, in effect, return on their private planes announcing new sacrifices they won't fulfill. they announce from dubai, in the early hours of the morning, an islamic theocracy based on fossil fuels, an agreement to end fossil fuels. this is a joke. you think the sheik pays the party and then he's going to run out of business? - no, i'm not. since housing is not expensive enough, they draw up a new directive to make new work more expensive. as they thought it was too little to ban access to the city center, they now ban the combustion engine. all europeans already know that the 2030 agenda is a pyramid scheme. it's about taking money from the european middle and popular classes and giving it to billionaires in any country. we don't want this and it will be proven on june 9.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, in accordance with article 218 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, for a third state to accede to an agreement in the field of the so-called non-objection mechanisms, the european commission must submit a proposal for a decision to the council, which will in turn adopt it with the approval of parliament. as a member of the committee on legal affairs, i believe that parliament's prerogatives would be better protected if the commission were to initiate a mandatory procedure for parliament's approval with each accession of a third state, thus giving rise to a non-objection. the commission considers, however, that parliament does not need to express such express approval. parliament shall have the power to adopt decisions on the accession of third countries to international conventions to which the union is a party. we therefore have to focus on democratic scrutiny and on ensuring an interinstitutional balance. and i would therefore ask: what measures does the council intend to take to fully implement the procedure laid down in article 218 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union?
