madam president, i would like to thank you. i and many others had looked forward to the swedish presidency. sweden has long been known for being at the forefront of gender equality, climate and democracy issues. but with this right-wing conservative government, which is leaning on a far-right party with roots in nazism, many people, including myself, have had their expectations dashed. it is a government whose prime minister shook hands with holocaust survivor hédi fried and said he would never cooperate with the sweden democrats, but which a year later is doing just that. it is a government that bases its power on a party, the sweden democrats, which admires putin's best friend in the eu: orbán. it is a government that is currently crawling for turkey's despot and anti-democratic erdogan. anything to get into nato. it's a government that has shut down the swedish ministry of the environment. yes, you heard right who has shut down the swedish ministry of the environment and cut sweden's climate budget by 58 percent. we would have to keep a minute of silence every week over everything you have already managed to destroy in sweden in this short time, in addition to having invited the extreme right to power. you only cut taxes for people who already have everything, but the common people get nothing. you erode welfare, and then you blame all the problems on immigrants and refugees. you're playing a game of chess with the constitution and our principle of publicity. this is an eu presidency that has no ambitions in terms of the rights of refugees, women or lgbtq people. it is said that this will be a presidency that will be more bureaucratic, more administrative. we can always hope, but i do not feel safe knowing that many of the mechanics behind the car are in fact racists and anti-democratic swedish democrats. i therefore call on all my colleagues here in the european parliament, and in your committees, to hold this presidency accountable. to prevent their anti-human and anti-planetary policies from having an impact at eu level. i hope that we will be many in support of a humane and supportive refugee policy, an ambitious climate policy that can deliver for future generations and a credible work for democracy and the rule of law in all member states. i think that is what the citizens are looking forward to. we don't have a day to lose in the climate change. we have not a day to lose in the fight to defend our democracy against putin and against orbán.
madam president, prime minister, i have to ask you to leave. the swedish presidency, as we have heard, is committed to preserving the unity of the european union. well, to talk about preserving the unity of the eu is a well-intentioned mistake. the union's unity has been shattered by the mainstream brussels politics of recent years. the consequence and proof of this is brexit, the exit of the eu's second largest and most powerful member state from the union. the wrong policy in brussels has destroyed the unity of the union. the union's unity has been shattered by brussels' backlash against illegal migrants, the member states defending their own borders and the external borders of the union, the continuing witch-hunt against the rule of law in brussels, the frontal attacks in brussels against traditional european values, the family, religion and the nation, and the efforts in brussels to undermine the national and constitutional sovereignty of the member states. the task is therefore to restore the unity of the union. this, in turn, requires that we respect the treaties, instead of the flawed brussels policy, and that we fully respect european diversity.
madam president, prime minister, welcome to the european parliament and thank you for assuming this important role of leadership on behalf of all of the european union in these important times. let me address two topics. firstly, competitiveness: the swedish government is absolutely right to put competitiveness high on the agenda of the european union in this first half of the year, because we can only ensure high standards of living in europe, we can only ensure high social standards, if our economy is competitive, if our economy is strong, if we produce goods that are demanded on the global markets. to support the competitiveness of our economy, in the conference on the future of europe, prime minister, we have proposed the introduction of a competitiveness check at european level, which means that whenever the european commission will propose legislation in the future it should make sure that this improves, it strengthens the competitiveness of our economy, it does not affect it. and, prime minister, my kind request to you is to make sure that we work together, because this idea was supported in the conference on the future of europe by governments, by commission, by citizens, by european parliament and national parliaments. let’s work together for this idea to see the light of the day. second topic: the enlargement of the schengen area. unfortunately, under the previous eu presidency, we could not unanimously agree on the accession of bulgaria and romania into the schengen area, although these countries fulfil all of the required conditions, as the european commission has repeatedly said. this is why, prime minister, let us keep this topic high on the agenda to make sure we can fulfil this commitment, because as the accession of finland and sweden to nato would make us all safer, the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area would also make us all safer. thank you very much, let’s deliver.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the prime minister of sweden! the swedish presidency in the first half of the year is actually very important, especially in view of the fact that sweden has finally got a reasonable right-wing government. - congratulations to you. sweden is a most tragic example of how uncontrolled immigration can damage the lives of future generations, our children and grandchildren, and this is an emergency for the whole of the eu. you can always ask the sweden democrats for advice on this matter, who have long warned of these dangers. i therefore sincerely hope that under sweden's presidency more emphasis will be placed on the need to control europe's external borders in order to prevent illegal immigration and, above all, to stand up for the security and future of europe's different nationalities. another, no less important subject for the presidency must be energy policy. the swedish government has already shown common sense by once again promoting nuclear power. but the same common sense is needed during the presidency. now it is necessary for the eu to come back to earth from its green revolution utopia, which is not realistic either economically or to, as it is said, 'prevent climate change'. finally, i would also like to thank sweden for its firm decision to increase defence spending in the face of russian aggression, which is important above all for the swedes themselves, but also for northern europe and estonia. i wish you strength and success and hope that sweden will be able to repair the damage that has already been done. thank you so much!
mr president, high representative, colleagues, at a time when the innocent ukrainians continue to be killed by the russian aggressors, i think it’s clearly premature to congratulate ourselves for our unity or resolve or anything else. indeed, we have to do more and we have to give much more. in exactly one year from now, we are going to look back at the year 2023 and then, let’s be honest, the only yardstick with which we can measure our success or failure is our ability, or the lack thereof, to help ukrainians to defeat the aggressor. when we say ukrainians are also fighting for our future, it’s not mere rhetoric, because if indeed russians are allowed – a un security council permanent member nuclear state – if it is allowed to get away with grabbing additional territory from a much smaller democratic neighbour, this will effectively be the end of the rules-based international order, which among other things, has allowed us to build europe as a successful peace project.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, from the 24 february last year, we have witnessed war crimes committed in ukraine from bucha to irpin, from bryanka to dnipro. president zelenskyy has declared very clearly what is the victory and peace formula for ukraine. it includes bringing all war criminals to accountability, and i underline all war criminals, those who are committing crimes on the ground, but also those who are hiding in kremlin. and that is why we need this special tribunal. it will not bring back lost lives and it will not make the heartache disappear, but it will make it crystal clear that committing war crimes, including the crime of aggression, will never go unpunished. and i very much hope that the vast majority of the international community will join the initiative and support the establishment of the tribunal.
author. – mr president, commissioner, colleagues, on 15 december last year i made a statement as the chair of the delegation for relations with south caucasus, expressing concern by the actions of the azerbaijani state authorities and purported environmental protesters. i urged the azerbaijani authorities to end the blockade of the lachin corridor and fulfil its obligations under the trilateral statement of 9 november 2020. more than a month has passed and azerbaijani inaction has led to a severe humanitarian crisis, including one death. 120 000 armenians live under effective blockade. hundreds of families remain separated. people are deprived of essential goods and services. children do not go to school. recently we witnessed a new wave of high—level inflammatory rhetoric calling to discriminate against armenians and urging them either to take azerbaijani citizenship or to leave nagorno-karabakh. these statements and inaction are inappropriate for a state that considers itself the eu’s reliable partner. i urge the azerbaijani side to respect its international commitments, to end the blockade of the lachin corridor and humanitarian crisis, to provide unimpeded access of international organisations to nagorno-karabakh and to start negotiations on a comprehensive peace agreement that must guarantee all rights and security to the armenian population of nagorno-karabakh. i would like to thank the co-authors of the resolution and encourage the house to adopt the resolution unanimously. finally, i would like to conclude on a personal note and address azerbaijani officials who have started a witch-hunt against me personally. i want to tell you that you will neither frighten me nor silence me. your attacks expose your weakness. you have gone below low. but i will not go low. i will follow michelle obama’s example. when you go low, i go high.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, when we talk about eltif, we are talking about the european long-term investment fund. and it's funny because since the pandemic and the green deal, we've been talking about the investments needed for transition, the so-called green and social investments. what's even more striking is that in the long run, for this kind of investment, it's important. so, one might have thought that the revision of this regulation was a great opportunity for these funds to contribute to a better future, by investing primarily in renewable energy, in the circular economy, in hospitals, services, etc. because without the mobilisation of this private capital, the ecological transition will not take place. but the commission has achieved the double feat of not including in the proposals what is necessary for a sustainability provision and of obstructing all the proposals which were nevertheless common sense: publication of the share of assets in our taxonomy-compliant activities, creation of green funds, prohibition for these funds to invest in activities which undermine one of the environmental objectives set by the european union. basically, we're out of order. and the more we deregulate, the less we supervise, and the less we understand what goes on in the shadow banks. the less we supervise shadow banking, the riskier the investments become. in the end, it is the financial crisis that hangs over our heads. and the ecological transition is still in the doldrums. too bad we missed an opportunity.
mr president, you have heard the position eloquently put by jonás fernández, and that is all true, but i would like to make a critical remark as well. financial markets, and probably politicians too, frequently suffer from the same illness: short—sightedness. we don’t look ten or 20 years ahead, but only two or three. and this means we forego long term growth to get a quick win. and i’m reminded of this especially now while discussing the regulation for european long-term investment funds. these funds are meant to incentivise a long-term view and increase investments to firms and projects that need time to grow. but they have struggled so far, right. interest for financial markets from investors has been limited, because they care about the quick win. and eltifs by themselves will not square the circle of short-termism in the financial markets. luckily enough, they are helped by the eu’s sustainable finance agenda. like a pair of glasses, the taxonomy and disclosure regulations can counter short-sightedness. they help to clarify the important long-term sustainability risks faced by the funds and they provide direction of travel for the long term. it’s therefore unfortunate that an eltif update did so little to take these elements on board. if i invest in a long-term fund i expect to care about the long-term risks, such as climate risks, and work towards the long-term climate transition. and sadly, this will not be true. instead, the regulation creates an environmentally sustainable eltif. this way, all green aspects have been grouped together and put in a new standard that i suspect will not gather much interest and will not be used. it’s a problem of short-sightedness. put the green bit in a far corner and you can’t see it anymore. still, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteur, elisabetta gualmini, for the good cooperation on this file and for the successful damage control. sadly, on this file, the vision needed to really ingrain the long-termism in the financial markets was short in supply.
mr president, i thank the commissioner for presenting the proposal. financial market reform is, shall we say, the primary objective pursued by this proposal. this is a long-term objective, and it follows from the proposals already presented in the previous period. i believe that the longterm perspective we are declaring in this report is not quite sufficient. the challenges we face are truly enormous. it is the planning and the systematic approach, the elimination of bureaucracy, the sustainable schemes, in fact, that are all the challenges that we expected this reform to bring and to deal with. and so far, i think we're about halfway there. so i would also like to call for the challenges that investors want to face in these funds to be heard, and for reform to be really more thorough, i think it is possible to take inspiration from our euro-atlantic bond, in our circle.
member of the commission. – thank you again colleagues, president, i’ll be brief and i just want to pick up a comment of mr kovařík about financial literacy and say that this parliament, i believe, has an important role to play here because we do need to talk about knowledge, about money, and to make sure that citizens have the skills to invest and are aware of what’s happening. my second observation — and paul, thank you, as always, for being very straight and provocative — is that, in fact, we do need to invest in the transition. and i think there is an awareness today because of the horrors of what’s happening in ukraine and the energy crisis, that we do have to actually invest faster into the green and digital way. but we will track these funds and we will see whether they achieve their objectives. for me, the big point is that we need to connect savers with investing. during covid-19, we saw a lot of money on deposit, people not earning on it — we need that to channel it into the projects we’ve just discussed. and you know, long term, life is not long enough, so we all know that we need to see results on these projects for citizens, for those that are here and those that have yet to come. it also marks, in my view, a step forward, a big step forward, on the capital markets union (cmu). bit by bit, with your cooperation here in parliament and with the council, we are making cmu happen and i really would like to thank you for that, but also to ask you to push us and to push as far as you can because we do not have a single market for capital and, you know, we’re marking 30 years of the single market, in one area we have not completed the circle. but i look forward to tomorrow’s vote. i think it will be strong because i think there was a great spirit of cooperation amongst you as negotiators. and again, i want to acknowledge and appreciate that. have a nice evening.
rapporteur. – mr president, the european common market has shown that free peoples and free countries can work together, freely and voluntarily, in areas of trade and economic development to improve the lives of our citizens. tomorrow is an important day that will mark a new milestone for that common market – a new building block for a genuine capital markets union. european long-term investment funds, eltifs, provide a stable and predictable source of financing for long-term projects. i am talking about investments in transport, energy, telecoms infrastructure, bridges, tunnels, electricity transmission lines, gas storage facilities, power plants and fibre optic cables, but also social infrastructure, such as hospitals, retirement homes and social housing. all of these are examples of projects that are the direct beneficiaries of the eltif reform, and hundreds of billions of euros can now flow into these objectives. eltifs promote economic growth and job creation by financing small and medium-sized businesses, which are a vital source of innovation and employment, but which too often struggle to access the financing they need in order to grow. over the past month, the european parliament’s committee on economic and monetary affairs has taken ambitious efforts to improve eltifs. we delivered on this reform within record time. when i took on the role of eltif rapporteur at the end of 2021, there were only 51 eltifs, and the total net size of the segment was only about eur 2 billion. today, we already have 84 eltifs, with the total net size exceeding eur 7.5 billion. this already demonstrates the market’s confidence in our reforms. now, i would like to address the sustainable eltifs and green investments, and i would like to recall that eltifs are already subject to the sustainable financial disclosure regulation, and the new eltif regulation makes that explicitly clear. it has now been clarified that eltifs may also invest in green bonds. however, the requirement to only invest in sfdr-compliant products was rejected because it would unduly narrow the universe of eligible assets. creating an extra category of sustainable eltifs will be weighed up during the evaluation mandated by the accelerated review clause only two years after the entry of the revised eltif regulation into force. finally, the creation of sustainable eltifs was deemed untimely and unwarranted at this stage, given the economic and legal assessment. mr president, i conclude that the eltif reform has shown that the common market is open to financial innovation by building a stronger capital markets union. we jointly stand for the interests of our small and medium—sized businesses, jobs, investors and, ultimately, the prosperity and interest of our people.
the debate is closed. the vote will be taken tomorrow.
the next item is the debate on the explanations of vote.
a uachtaráin, satellite infrastructure plays a vital role in ensuring seamless communication in a digital society. under this proposal, the union secure connectivity programme provides for a satellite communication infrastructure that is secure, flexible and resilient for eu member states and citizens. this proposal will also ensure eu citizens receive a fit—for—purpose mobile and broadband satellite service, including improved internet connection for remote and rural areas. to do this, this proposal establishes an eu satellite constellation of an estimated 200 satellites and will serve as the eu’s first dedicated infrastructure to offer satellite communication services to governments, the economy and civil society: a fair achievement. this is a key step in ensuring an eu space-based secure communication system that seeks to meet the needs of modern society. these changes will be based on the latest innovative technologies in creating a new space ecosystem, and this proposal forms a key part of the eu’s space package.
the eu, in response to the crisis and the global energy market caused by the russian invasion of ukraine, has launched the european union's repowereu plan. the repowereu plan is to do the following: choose energy, generate clean energy, and diversify our energy supply. the aim of the plan is to increase the eu's current energy supply and diversify it so that europe becomes independent of russian-based fuels well before 2030. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. the european commission is proposing a new energy policy for the eu, which will be based on the principle of the 'green economy'.
mr president, i welcome today's vote on the repowereu legislative package, which is key to tackling the current energy crisis by supporting infrastructure projects or increasing the energy efficiency of buildings. i appreciate that the package includes one of the requirements of slovakia, which kdh has been promoting from the beginning, namely the use of the unused cohesion funds to support vulnerable households as well as businesses most affected by the energy crisis. the slovak authorities have also provided the commission with a report on the implementation of the new cohesion fund guidelines for the period 2014-2020 (see recital 13 above). it is crucial that the slovak government uses these funds strategically and works with the regions to help those most affected by the energy crisis.
mr president, i too have supported this draft report. it is actually the closing of the whole process and i welcome that, because €20 billion is already a fairly significant amount and is to be used to reduce the dependence of european countries on fossil resources, especially those of russia. it's a response to an unprecedented illegal act of russian aggression in ukraine. we need to diversify our energy sources, ensure security of supply, invest in energy storage, also promote the faster development of renewable energy sources and also promote the stability of supply. security for citizens and businesses is to be provided on a very rapid scale. these investments are to be completed within three years. the member states must now show how prepared they are, how quickly they are able to submit quality projects and actually announce their schemes, their projects, within one month of the adoption of this regulation. and i think this is a very good idea.
a uachtaráin, there are nearly 13.7 million eu citizens residing in a member state other than that of their own nationality. the right of those eu citizens to vote in european parliament elections has been enshrined in eu treaties for decades. nevertheless, these citizens face a number of barriers in exercising this important eu right. this proposal will ensure eu citizens are able to exercise their eu right to vote and stand as a candidate in european elections in the eu country they are residing in under the same conditions as nationals of that country. this includes accessible information, a straightforward registration process and the effective exchange of information between member states with the aim of preventing multiple voting. and of course it also requires that information on registration and voting is provided in all official languages, including in gaeilge. this proposal will also ensure unnecessary obstacles to accessing voting booths and polling stations are addressed. a good proposal.
mr president, i also supported this draft report, although i am rather sceptical about the possibility of single candidates for the whole of the union. i have already explained this position here, but this proposal goes in a somewhat different direction, namely to try to bring as many voters as possible to the polls and allow them to vote. it should be emphasized that the european parliament is the only directly elected institution in the european union, and it is of course in the interests of both the member states and us elected representatives to enable as many people as possible to vote, and the options envisaged in this report, such as early voting, postal voting or representative voting, are all options that i definitely welcome, and it is important to raise these issues, because in the czech republic, for example, it is not possible to vote for the european parliament abroad at all. this is a fundamental weakness of the czech electoral system and i think that the support from the european institutions is very good.
mr president, i have been delayed in this regulation and i would like to explain why. i appreciate the result of the czech presidency in being able to negotiate a majority on such a complex dossier both in the member states and, in fact, here in the european parliament. it is important that this sector knows what it can undoubtedly count on. and there's no doubt that transportation is contributing to the rising co2 emissions. these are all real facts. i am convinced, however, that it is not possible to impose a complete ban on this combustion engine technology without further action, because the emissions can be very low. and i think it was possible to preserve the acceptability of this technology. the lack of infrastructure, recharging systems or even the transmission of new energy systems is also a major problem. this raises some big questions, and i think it's a bit of a hasty move.
consequently, the explanations of vote are omitted from the agenda.
the next meeting is tomorrow, wednesday, february 15, 2023, at 9:00 a.m. the rules of procedure have been published and are available on the european parliament's website.
the minutes of this meeting will be submitted to parliament for approval on the day following the vote.
in relation to the decisions by several committees to enter into interinstitutional negotiations, pursuant to rule 71(1), announced at the opening of the session on monday, 13 february, i have received no request for a vote in parliament by members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold. the committees may therefore start the negotiations.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements – one year of russia’s invasion and war of aggression against ukraine (2023/2558(rsp)).
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, for the council. – madam president, madam president of the commission, members of the european parliament, i’m going to speak in spanish and while you are using your headphones... quiero usar estos primeros minutos para recordar la figura de un presidente del parlamento europeo, gil robles, que nos dejó hace unos días. un gran europeísta, presidente de los federalistas europeos, con quien he compartido muchos caminos en la construcción europea. señoras y señores diputados, intervengo en este debate en nombre y representación del consejo de la unión, cuyas formaciones de asuntos exteriores y defensa tengo el honor de presidir. hablo, por tanto, desde el punto de vista intergubernamental, uno de los dos pilares sobre los que funciona la unión europea. después, la presidenta de la comisión hablará desde la perspectiva comunitaria. voy a intentar no contarles dos veces la misma cosa. sin embargo, la función del alto representante para la política exterior y de seguridad común es también hacer de puente y coordinar las acciones y las decisiones que toman los estados miembros con la política exterior de la comisión europea. esta función es doble: por una parte, la política exterior, y, por otra parte, la seguridad y la defensa. que no es lo mismo, aunque una cosa, a veces, es la continuación de la otra. la guerra en ucrania ha puesto de relieve la importancia de la política común de seguridad y de defensa. ha sido un despertar para europa, un despertar geopolítico. como dijo el canciller scholz unos días después de la invasión, esto ha sido —y seguramente lo voy a pronunciar mal en alemán— un zeitenwende. pero no solo lo ha sido para alemania. lo ha sido para toda europa. un despertar frente a una realidad nueva para nosotros: la guerra, que habíamos sacado de nuestro horizonte intelectual. habíamos bajado la guardia, y buena prueba es el bajísimo nivel de nuestros arsenales militares y la escasa capacidad de nuestra industria de defensa para reponerlos. sí, la invasión rusa de ucrania ha representado una extraordinaria llamada de atención porque nos embarca en un mundo nuevo; un mundo donde todo se ha convertido en un debate geopolítico y al que la unión europea ha dado una respuesta que les toca a ustedes hoy juzgar y debatir. espero que este debate sirva para eso, para poner de relieve lo que hemos hecho. ustedes ya lo saben, no se lo voy a repetir. ¿cómo lo juzgan los representantes de los pueblos de europa? ¿qué otra cosa podíamos hacer? ¿qué hemos hecho? apoyar a ucrania militar, económica, financiera y diplomáticamente, tanto como hemos podido. mucho, pero en mi opinión no lo suficiente. he estado en ucrania recientemente con la presidenta de la comisión y mis colegas comisarios, atendiendo también a la cumbre entre la unión europea y ucrania. allí he visto una vez más a un pueblo que defiende su libertad y su independencia y a unos líderes que tratan de hacer frente a esta dramática situación siguiendo el camino hacia europa. se lo dijo aquí el presidente zelenski hace unos días. y sí, hoy la situación en ucrania es dramática. pero los ucranianos miran a europa como tantos otros pueblos —también el mío— la miraron, como un futuro prometedor. puede que su camino sea largo porque la guerra va a ser larga, pero hemos de hacer todos los esfuerzos posibles para que esta promesa no se frustre; para que, al contrario, ucrania salga vencedora de esta guerra y encuentre en la familia europea, a la que ya pertenece de facto, el futuro que necesita. hoy la situación militar en el terreno es extraordinariamente preocupante. hay más de 360 000 soldados rusos, el doble de los que había antes de la guerra. la contraofensiva rusa ha empezado, aunque sea a pequeña escala, y, por primera vez, ucrania no tiene la ventaja del mayor número de tropas en el terreno. por eso, ucrania continúa llamando a los estados miembros de la unión y a todos los que la ayudan. por eso, los países que coordinamos la ayuda militar a ucrania nos reunimos ayer en ramstein, para ver dónde estamos, qué hemos hecho, qué les hemos dado como ayuda y qué necesitan —en particular, más municiones y más entrenamiento para sus soldados— y para seguir demostrando que no vamos a cejar en nuestro apoyo a ucrania. señoras y señores diputados, me voy a poner la venda antes de la herida. voy a decirles que a mí la guerra me gusta tan poco como a cualquiera de ustedes. no soy un warmonger. je ne suis pas un va-t-en-guerre. no tengo ningún ardor guerrero; no me gusta la guerra. claro, prefiero la paz, como casi todos ustedes. como todos. no hace falta que lo repitamos. pero lo que sí tenemos que repetir y discutir es cómo se alcanza la paz: para alcanzar la paz tenemos que seguir apoyando militarmente a ucrania, más de lo que lo hemos hecho. este va a ser uno de mis mensajes fundamentales. para ganar la paz primero hay que ganar la guerra. se puede ayudar militarmente a ucrania y al mismo tiempo hacer todos los esfuerzos diplomáticos necesarios para que la paz llegue cuanto antes. no son dos cosas alternativas ni contradictorias; hay que hacer las dos cosas a la vez. apoyarles más, hacer más esfuerzos diplomáticos, y pronto en la asamblea de las naciones unidas tendré ocasión de hacerlo y pedir al secretario general que inicie, si puede y quiere, un proceso de mediación, de interlocución en el que hasta ahora todo el mundo ha fracasado, porque todo el mundo que ha hablado con putin ha vuelto con el mensaje de que quiere continuar esta guerra hasta conseguir sus objetivos militares. es de una extraordinaria ingenuidad pedir que se pare la ayuda militar a ucrania para que la guerra sea más corta y para que se construya más pronto la paz. y digo ingenuidad por no utilizar una palabra más fuerte. no, se pueden hacer las dos cosas, y si dejamos de apoyar militarmente a ucrania, la paz que conseguiremos no será una paz, será una victoria de rusia, que para nosotros sería una extraordinaria amenaza a nuestra seguridad. entonces, ¿qué hemos hecho? ¿qué ha hecho el consejo, al que represento aquí hoy? pues primero ha aprobado un impresionante paquete de sanciones: nueve paquetes y el décimo está en camino —seguro que la presidenta de la comisión hará referencia a él—, con el objetivo de debilitar la economía rusa. ¿se ha conseguido? muchos dicen que las sanciones son ineficientes, que no han debilitado a la economía rusa, que al contrario, nos producen efectos negativos sobre nosotros mismos. bien, es cierto que la economía rusa no ha colapsado y que la tasa de crecimiento de su pib no es la que se había previsto. es cierto que el año pasado tuvo unos ingresos excepcionalmente altos, tanto por gas como por petróleo. pero las cosas están cambiando, gracias a nuestras sanciones y en particular gracias al cap que hemos impuesto en el petróleo. si ustedes miran los tres parámetros fundamentales de una economía, los ingresos por hidrocarburos, el propio ministro de hacienda ruso decía hace dos días que en enero son el 46 % más bajos que en enero del año pasado. sí, tuvieron muchos durante el año 2022, porque los precios escalaron de una forma histérica y nosotros todavía dependíamos de ellos. ya no lo hacemos. uno de nuestros grandes éxitos ha sido reducir a prácticamente cero nuestra extraordinaria dependencia energética de rusia, un 46 % más baja de enero sobre enero. si miran el déficit público, el déficit público ruso está explotando. es 14 veces más alto en enero de 2023 que en enero de 2022: de 2 billones a 1,8 trillones. y, si miran la balanza comercial, verán que sí tuvieron un gran surplus en el 2022, entre otras cosas por una extraordinaria cosecha de trigo, pero en enero del 2023 está en su mínimo histórico de la media desde el año 2007. déficit comercial, déficit público, ingresos por hidrocarburo: las sanciones son un veneno de acción lenta, como los que están hechos en base a arsénico. tardan en producir sus efectos, pero lo hacen y lo hacen de una forma irreversible. el 45 % de la dependencia tecnológica de rusia es con respecto a europa. sus fábricas de coches y aviones han perdido el 80 % de su capacidad. sí, el rublo es fuerte artificialmente, pero la economía rusa va a pagar un precio altísimo por esta guerra: han perdido su principal cliente energético, que somos los europeos, y no lo volverán a tener. no va a ser fácil, casi imposible, encontrar un cliente alternativo para su gas, porque china está demasiado lejos y su petróleo lo venden a 40 dólares el barril, es decir, a la mitad del precio del brent, y se lo compran a rebaja india y china, y esa rebaja es debida también al efecto de nuestro price cap, que es un gran éxito político, porque ha conseguido reducir los ingresos de rusia y no alterar el mercado petrolero mundial. sí, nuestras sanciones están surtiendo efecto lentamente, pero seguramente minando las bases tecnológicas, comerciales y energéticas de la economía rusa. putin ya ha perdido la batalla de la energía, como también está perdiendo moral y políticamente la guerra, incluso hasta ahora, militarmente, aunque ucrania todavía no haya ganado. la segunda cosa que ha hecho el consejo, además de aprobar estos paquetes de sanciones propuestos conjuntamente por la comisión y el alto representante en un trabajo conjunto —quiero agradecer a la presidenta de la comisión por su liderazgo y energía en esta materia—, hemos armado a ucrania. sí, por primera vez, la unión europea utiliza sus recursos —no de su presupuesto, pero sí recursos del conjunto de los estados miembros— para armar a un país en guerra. si sumamos lo que hemos dado con el fondo europeo de la paz y lo que cada país ha hecho por su cuenta bilateralmente, estamos alcanzando un importe de ayuda militar que ronda los 12 mil millones de euros, dentro de un paquete de ayuda total que supera los 60 mil millones de euros. globalmente, nadie ha hecho más que europa para ayudar a ucrania en términos económicos y financieros. nuestra ayuda militar, menor, sin duda, que la americana, no es en absoluto despreciable, pero ayer en ramstein dije, y lo quiero repetir aquí, que tenemos no solo que continuar esta ayuda, sino que la tenemos que incrementar. hago una llamada a todos los países europeos que disponen de carros de combate modernos y eficaces, que están acumulando polvo en sus cuarteles y que no sirven para nada, a que los den a ucrania. y que los den cuanto antes, porque esta primavera y verano serán decisivos. la guerra se va a decidir en esta primavera y verano. hemos estado demasiado tiempo discutiendo si dábamos o no dábamos los famosos leopards. mientras tanto, rusia preparaba su ofensiva. hemos estado demasiado tiempo discutiendo decisiones que tenían que haber llegado antes, temerosos de que nuestra involucración en la guerra nos condujera a una pseudobeligerancia. no, hemos anunciado que daremos carros de combate y no ha habido ninguna tercera guerra mundial. por cierto, los carros de combate todavía no están allí y tardarán en llegar. como el tiempo es fundamental y el tiempo se mide en vidas, es mi papel, como responsable del fondo europeo para la paz, el de coordinar las acciones de los estados miembros en la ayuda militar, pedir más y más rápida ayuda a ucrania. ese es el mensaje fundamental que quisiera pasarles, pero a continuación debo repetir la idea de que esta ayuda militar no es ni contradictoria ni alternativa a la búsqueda de la paz por medios diplomáticos. que una cosa puede ir con la otra. créanme, no entiendo a aquellos que dicen que para negociar primero hay que dejar de apoyar militarmente a ucrania. al contrario, hay que hacer las dos cosas a la vez. esto no es un debate entre palomas y halcones. esto es un debate desde el realismo, conociendo cómo son las cosas en el terreno y qué podemos y debemos hacer. esta también es una llamada de atención para que europa entienda que su capacidad militar tiene que ser mucho mayor de lo que es; que nuestra industria militar tiene que ser más potente; que la capacidad de nuestros ejércitos para hacer frente a una situación como esta tiene que ser mayor, porque se ha demostrado que no era suficiente. esta guerra será larga y nosotros tenemos que abordarla desde el convencimiento de que una guerra de desgaste es, en el fondo, una batalla logística. es una batalla de información, viendo la dimensión geopolítica de esta guerra, porque el wagner que nos encontramos en el sahel es el mismo wagner que está luchando en ucrania y responde al mismo papel geopolítico de una rusia que utiliza su petróleo, su trigo, su capacidad nuclear civil y sus minerales para desarrollar una geopolítica a la que tenemos que hacer frente con mayor determinación. este es el trabajo que también tienen ustedes que hacer, señoras y señores diputados, porque tenemos que convencer a los ciudadanos europeos de que no cabe flaquear; que la guerra tiene un coste, pero que la libertad también lo tiene. que el coste de verdad lo está pagando ucrania, que el nuestro es pequeño comparado con el suyo y que sería mucho mayor si putin ganara la guerra. no, no la puede ganar. esta guerra la tiene que ganar ucrania para construir una paz estable en europa.
president of the commission. – madam president, it’s now almost a year ago, on the night of 24 february, that russia invaded ukraine and war was back to europe. that night, i think all of you remember that our thoughts and also our prayers went to our friends in ukraine. i remember vividly how we followed the news from the donbas and kyiv with unbearable tension. and we were all wondering whether the ukrainian friends would be able to withstand the onslaught of the russian invaders. today we know, yes, they would. one year on, putin’s perfidious plans continue to be foiled by the brave ukrainian nation. one year on, russia has completely alienated itself from europe – its most important economic relationship – and is isolated on the global stage. one year on, this very parliament last week welcomed the president of ukraine, volodymyr zelenskyy, as the true hero he is. and one year on, putin’s imperial fantasies have woken up to a bleak reality, while ukraine’s dreams of freedom are stronger than ever. and they will prevail. i am deeply convinced. honourable members, what a difference one year of unity and resolve can make. in the early hours of 24 february, when russian tanks rolled into ukraine, a whole continent was holding its breath. some predicted that ukraine would fall in a matter of days. but instead the legendary bravery of the ukrainian people stunned the world. that fierce resistance at the gates of kyiv. the civilians who stopped russian tanks in the south. the counter-offensive of ukraine’s armed forces in kharkiv and kherson. we can never match the sacrifices and the bravery of the ukrainian people. but what we can do is stand firmly by their side. and that’s what we’ve done from day one. and we will continue to do that. they can rely on us. and indeed, a whole continent has mobilised: from the volunteers at warsaw station who welcomed the ukrainians fleeing putin’s bombs, to all citizens and companies who have cut their electricity demands. together with you, honourable members, we have focused on three main goals. first, to support ukraine’s resistance against the invader unwaveringly. second, to undermine russia’s war machine. and third, to build ukraine’s european future together. these three strands of action have guided us over the last year and will continue to guide us in the months to come. je commencerai par notre soutien continu à la résistance ukrainienne. depuis le début de la guerre, le soutien économique, humanitaire et militaire de l’union européenne à l’ukraine s’élève à 67 milliards d’euros: c’est de l’aide budgétaire à la reprise rapide, de l’énergie aux capacités militaires, de l’aide humanitaire à l’aide aux réfugiés ukrainiens. tout cela est une contribution concrète à l’effort de guerre de l’ukraine. poutine voulait l’effondrement de l’état ukrainien; nous avons aidé l’ukraine à rester opérationnelle. même durant les heures les plus sombres, l’europe a dynamisé la résistance ukrainienne, et nous continuerons à le faire. nous garantirons un flux constant d’aide financière tout au long de 2023. la première tranche de ce paquet, comme vous le savez – 18 milliards d’euros –, est déjà arrivée en ukraine. notre solution continuera d’être stable et prévisible, chaque mois. c’est ce que l’europe avait promis, et nous avons tenu notre promesse. l’europe soutient également les entreprises et les travailleurs ukrainiens toujours en activité malgré la guerre. pour cela, nous avons mobilisé la puissance de notre marché unique, nous avons intégré nos économies, rapproché nos gens, jumelé nos villes, synchronisé nos réseaux électriques. nos corridors de solidarité permettent à l’ukraine d’exporter ses marchandises vers le monde entier, ce qui a déjà représenté 20 milliards d’euros de revenus pour les entreprises ukrainiennes en cette période de guerre. et nous pouvons faire plus. lors de notre visite à kiev, nous nous sommes mis d’accord sur une feuille de route pour améliorer davantage l’accès de l’ukraine à notre marché unique. poutine voulait tuer le rêve européen de l’ukraine; aujourd’hui, l’ukraine se dirige vers l’union européenne plus rapidement et plus résolument que jamais. en parallèle, nous affaiblissons la capacité de la russie à maintenir sa machinerie de guerre, et c’est là mon deuxième point. avec neuf paquets de sanctions en place, l’économie russe régresse. et pour maintenir une forte pression, nous proposons un dixième train de mesures. il contient de nouvelles interdictions commerciales et de nouveaux contrôles des exportations de technologies vers la russie. ce paquet vaut en tout 11 milliards d’euros. nous proposons notamment des restrictions sur des dizaines de composants électroniques utilisés dans les systèmes armés russes, tels que les drones, les missiles et les hélicoptères. mais il y a aussi des centaines de drones, fabriqués en iran, que la russie utilise sur les champs de bataille en ukraine. ces drones iraniens tuent des civils ukrainiens, c’est atroce. donc, pour la première fois, nous proposons également de sanctionner les opérateurs iraniens, y compris ceux liés aux gardiens de la révolution. il est de notre devoir de le faire, c’est notre devoir de sanctionner cela. putin ging davon aus, dass unsere unterstützung für die ukraine nicht von dauer sein würde. er dachte, dass es ein leichtes wäre, europa zu erpressen mit unserer zugegebenermaßen hohen abhängigkeit damals von russischem öl und russischem gas. aber auch da lag er falsch. heute, ein jahr nach kriegsbeginn, hat er den von ihm entfachten energiekrieg schon verloren. wir haben uns neu aufgestellt, und zwar mit der hilfe von verlässlichen partnern, und das ergebnis kann sich sehen lassen. russlands einnahmen aus dem verkauf von öl und gas, insbesondere das gas nach europa – die einnahmen sind um zwei drittel gesunken. durch die ölpreisbremse, die wir global zusammen aufgestellt haben, verliert russland jeden tag 160 millionen eur. die gaspreise in europa sind heute niedriger als vor russlands überfall auf die ukraine. und wir in europa investieren inzwischen in saubere energien und damit in energieunabhängigkeit wie nie zuvor. wir stellen beim ausbau der erneuerbaren energien einen rekord nach dem anderen auf. zum beispiel haben wind und sonne letztes jahr zum allerersten mal mehr strom geliefert als gas. wir haben mit europäischer geschlossenheit und mit einer klugen energiepolitik nicht nur dem russischen druck widerstanden, sondern uns auch von der abhängigkeit befreit. unserer wirtschaft geht es heute besser als vorhergesagt. wir konnten am wochenanfang die wachstumsprognosen nach oben korrigieren. der kreml muss dagegen inzwischen goldreserven verkaufen, um angesichts fehlender öleinnahmen seine löcher zu stopfen. putins erpressungsversuch ist damit krachend gescheitert. und das ist auch gut so! meine damen und herren abgeordnete, präsident selenskyj hat oft mit mir darüber gesprochen, was die menschen in der ukraine eigentlich angesichts des grauens dieses krieges noch antreibt, trotz der massaker in butscha und irpin, was ihnen hoffnung gibt, auch nach der bombardierung von mariupol und dnipro: es ist der feste glaube, dass die zukunft dieses landes und die zukunft ihrer kinder in der europäischen union ist. und das ist unsere dritte aufgabe, vor der wir stehen. wir wollen den ukrainerinnen und ukrainern eine brücke der hoffnung bauen – von dem grauen des krieges, in dem sie heute leben, in eine bessere zukunft in unserer mitte. rebuilding ukraine, and its progress on the path towards our union go hand in hand. you’ve heard it from president zelenskyy in this very hemicycle, i’ve seen it with my college in kyiv, i know it from the colleagues at the commission who confirm it every single day: ukrainians are making tangible progress despite the war, despite fighting the aggressor. they know that the accession to our union is a merit-based process. they have passed legislative reforms that others thought would take years. they are making this progress because they are striving for europe with all their heart and soul. ukraine is a nation defined not only by its history and heritage, it is a nation defined by its dreams, and europe is one of these dreams. so, distinguished members, let’s honour these dreams by standing up for ukraine for as long as it takes, so that one day the representatives of the ukrainian people will have their place in this very hemicycle. long live europe, slava ukraini!
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president metsola, madam president von der leyen, high representative borrell, almost one year has passed of unimaginable suffering, bloodshed and destruction for ukraine and the ukrainian people. 7000 innocent children, women and men have been killed. many of them died in hospitals, schools and their homes at the hand of putin’s army. over 8 million ukrainians fled their country, their home, looking for a safe haven in europe. this is the reality that ukrainians have been waking up to every day since 24 february 2022, 357 days ago. it was a historic moment for europe when president zelenskyy was with us last week in the european parliament. i want to thank roberta, our president, for inviting him and for managing this. it was a touching moment for all of us, but it also had an important message. one year ago, when we saw him on the screens, we didn’t know if he could survive, or if ukraine could confront russia successfully. yes, president zelenskyy, his army and all its soldiers, and his over 40 million compatriots stand united, and they have been successful until now. they show us what it means to follow the european way of life. our ukrainian friends show us every day what it means to be european. they show us that if people have a choice, they choose democracy over autocracy, the rule of law over rule of few, and freedom over tyranny. that is called the european way of life. president zelenskyy used this phrase around 20 times in his speech last week. allow me to recall how much the socialists and the greens were fighting against a special portfolio inside the european commission last time to promote and protect the european way of life. as the epp, we fought for it, and today it is the headline. you do not want to hear this, but it’s the headline of president zelenskyy and probably the motivation for our ukrainian friends – the european way of life. we should be proud of this. roberta metsola, as our president, was the first to risk going to kyiv. ‘we are on your side’ was roberta’s main message. ursula von der leyen was leading efforts to grant candidate status to our ukrainian friends. let’s be clear, this was not welcomed so much by scholz, by macron, by sanchez or by costa. that’s why i want to thank our two presidents for their leading role in a historic moment to keep ukraine on our side. for us, as the epp, it has been clear from the very first moment. we stand beside our ukrainian friends who seek live and defend the european way of life. putin wants to destroy this. he is the opposite – he hates it. his dictatorship stands for suppression, censorship, war crimes and totalitarianism. putin is a war criminal and he must lose this war. this war has shaken europe to its core, but europe has been united and stronger than ever before. we imposed unprecedented sanctions, which will weaken putin’s war machine, and we welcome very much the new proposals now. we supported ukraine with around eur 50 billion – eur 65 billion was your figure – for financial, humanitarian and military support. we send weapons now, including finally tanks. i would say there is one open question still on the table, and that is about building up a real european defence capability. high representative borrell mentioned it, but there is not so much in terms of initiatives currently on the table to do so. finally, there cannot be – let me use a historic comparison – any kind of munich event in the next year, where democratic politicians accepted splitting up czechoslovakia in order to get peace, or at least a dream of peace. the future of ukraine will not be decided in berlin, in paris, in brussels, or in washington. only ukrainians decide about the future of ukraine. we will not leave them alone in their fight for peace and for the freedom to fight to live the european way of life. slava ukraini!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. one year after the brutal escalation of the war in ukraine, it is absolutely clear that we stand firmly on the side of the democratic state of ukraine under attack, and our support - whether financial, political or military - is absolutely certain, even if we hear again and again, now and especially from my own member state, voices that try to throw crude narratives into this debate in order to stifle public debate. so i want to make a few things clear: not arms deliveries to ukraine are prolonging this war vladimir putin is doing that. weapons supplies are protecting ukraine from annihilation and millions of people in ukraine from violence and occupation. and just as the high representative has said, arms deliveries do not preclude negotiations. supporting a country in its self-defence does not mean that we no longer want diplomacy. it means protecting international law. and thirdly - and i think it's important to say this very clearly in the debate - there will be no return to the status quo ante, not with this russia. the whole security situation in europe has changed, and a new world needs new answers, not the old ones. and therefore: instead of being applauded by fascists for signature collections, it would be time now - especially to all of us, including those from germany, who continue to sing these old songs from before february 24, 2022 - to finally go to riga, warsaw or helsinki and not to lecture others, but to listen and finally see that in a new world we must continue to stand clearly on the side of ukraine.
on behalf of the id group. – madam president, first of all, when i heard from our representative that it was a wake—up call what russia did one year ago, i was really surprised: were we really born yesterday? i think the war started already nine years ago, in 2014. and it is no surprise that russia has ambitions to go back in history to the soviet union times; they very clearly stated that in december 2021, when they asked impossible things: that there will be no new nato member states, that there would be some kind of puppet countries next to the russian border, like ukraine, finland, sweden, that they are not allowed to join nato. and they also said that if you don’t do as we are asking, and if all nato troops don’t leave the nato member states like poland, estonia, latvia, we will attack you. i think it wasn’t a surprise. it was clearly visible for the last 30 years. when the socialist colleagues were attacking epp colleagues here, i should remind you that, unfortunately, your friend in the german government, mr schulz, is blocking more military aid. they’re waiting for his signature to send tanks. and now, one year later, they’re like, ‘oh, we have to check in which condition we have for tanks’. one year later, and now they’re checking for the condition for tanks. very surprising. 2014, when the war started already, it wasn’t a problem for the germans to continue with nord stream 2. it wasn’t a problem at all. no, let’s go further. it’s just an economic relation. there is no economics without politics. it’s the same thing with the americans. ukrainians asked the fighters already in march last year and americans were blocking that. poland said, ‘we will give our old russian fighters to ukraine. just please send us f16 fighters.’ america: ‘no, no. we are too afraid. no. maybe we would escalate the conflict.’ the fact is weakness is provocation. our weakness is provoking russia to go further and that’s a historical fact. so don’t be weak. don’t be too pro-russian. act now, fight now and win this war.
mr president, dear colleagues, this war will have to end with every square inch of ukrainian sovereign territory liberated. because, otherwise, if russia should walk out of this with territorial gains and with the current regime still intact and in power, the international rules-based order will have failed, if not entirely collapsed. i would like to underscore two points made by high representative borrell. first, implementation. it is commendable that the decision was taken to build the tanks, but now those tanks would really have to arrive and all countries who have equipment to spare will have to step up. secondly, it is not simply sufficient to continue supporting ukraine militarily, but we will have to step up the support significantly so as to turn the tide of the war and make sure that ukraine emerges victorious. finally, we should seek on this very issue unity in this house, deliberately heightening political partisanship is irresponsible. it is not helpful. it is not even elegant.
mr president, mr timmermans, dear colleagues, i know very well that mr paet was on the same flight with me tonight, and he arrived to frankfurt. after that, i have no idea what happened to him. he went to a train. i came by car. so you see that you don’t take the train. the idea of the majority voting has been around for years in the eu. it’s very easy for the meps and for the representatives from germany, from france, from spain to support this federalist idea, as also the socialist colleague said in the beginning of the speech that he is one step forward to the federalist. of course, i am against the federalists, because when you are from the small member states, and if you’re using the majority voting, then the only ones who can lose from the majority voting are small member states. majority voting can’t harm in any way germany or france because they’re just too big. it is pretty impossible to win those countries with majority voting. but you can win estonia or finland or latvia or even poland. that’s why, even if there is some kind of federalist idea to go forward with some kind of idea of the empire, i think this is just one step forward to have bigger conflicts inside of the eu between the member states. i think this is not the way we want to go, but this is the way we are going just now. i’m really hoping that you will see the future of what will happen.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank the rapporteur and everybody who worked on this act. i believe that it will be landmark legislation for this mandate if it succeeds in harnessing the potential of data in all the ways we are hoping and foreseeing. i would like to underline some very important points of the european parliament’s position. in the event of conflict between two legislative instruments, gdpr will prevail. we do not create any additional legal basis for the processing of personal data nor removing any of those that exist. it will help to enforce our citizens’ right to data portability, which is already provided in gdpr, and we ensure the right foreseen for a person who is not the user asking for transfer of data but whose personal data is still being transferred. on a personal note, i would like to mention my own remaining concern. the scope of what business will have to share with governments is much wider in parliament’s position than i personally would have liked. it remains to be seen how this will be done in practice and it remains to be seen if we need to go to court to see how some personal data applications work.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! data is the fuel of the digital economy, which fuels innovation and enables new business models to be created. the european union generates vast amounts of information, which should be easy and cheap to store, exchange and use for economic purposes. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. the vast amount of data collected and processed about us by connected devices needs to be better protected. providing access to iot products to independent service points will reduce repair costs and increase the life of equipment. these rules are crucial for the development of european technologies such as artificial intelligence. europe needs to make better use of the potential of the data we generate, while ensuring the highest level of protection.
madam president, commissioner, everything that can be connected will be connected. we are looking at a law that has the potential to change the european digital and industrial landscape. the european union has not been part of the global race, in which data has become an essential asset. we know that countries like china and the united states are already implementing their industrial strategies by leveraging the possibilities offered by data. in europe we cannot and will not be left behind. today we can boast of a europe at the forefront of global regulation with the digital services act and the digital markets act. two regulations that lay the foundations for what the online world should be and that, for the first time, put a stop to the internet giants who have, for a long time, exploited our market without clear rules. now, with the internet of things, we have to find our own way of taking advantage of the potential of industrial data: of the data we already have and that are currently underused and of the data we can generate, always respecting - of course - our european values and way of life. the strategic autonomy of the european union through the digital sector needs to be enhanced in order to boost the competitiveness through innovation of european industry, while protecting our businesses and, of course, our citizens. i cannot end today without congratulating the rapporteur, pilar del castillo, and the other rapporteurs in this house, as well as commissioner breton, on the extraordinary result of this work, which i hope will be massively endorsed in today's vote.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we can say with great pride that europe is building - a unique case in the world and truly the first in the world - an architecture of rules which seek to give the digital development, which is so rapid, unstoppable and also very useful, directions, obligations, opportunities and above all responsibility for operators and users, including consumers, because we must all act in the light of a principle which is fundamental to us: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on digital rights and freedoms, in particular by ensuring that the rights and freedoms of citizens, as well as those of consumers, are protected and enhanced, including in the development of digital innovation and the digital market. with the data governance act before and now with the data act, we determine who can use the data and how they can do it, with what rules and under what conditions; who can give economic value in the future and also already present data economy to the exploitation of data and who and how can share them, with what rules and for what purposes, always safeguarding the general interest and the well-being of citizens. i have one last thing to say to the commissioner: this whole system is very important, but it will stand if we develop what we call data literacy, that is, all digital literacy, so that no citizen of any status, age or education is left behind in this development.
madam president, commissioner, i want to thank the rapporteur and everybody who has been participating in these negotiations. this data act is an important piece of legislation, especially in promoting european rights and values in our digital world. once successful, it will be boosting both innovation and also our data economy in europe. we know that there is much unused potential with data: despite data being collected in vast quantities, the commission has predicted that 80% of all industrial data produced is never used, so there is huge potential. i think it’s especially important that with this regulation we can also rebalance the smes’ negotiation power and make better access to data for our small, micro- and medium-sized enterprises. it’s particularly important for innovation and also in order to ensure their competitiveness. at the same time, it’s clear that trade secrets of corporations should be protected. and i think we have found a good balance in this regulation with these different sizes of companies. and from the consumer perspective, it’s essential that, as a generator of data, they have also better access to their own data. there must be a possibility for such data to be also transferred to another service provider. the negotiators of the data act have found a good, balanced compromise, and i think this is a solid foundation for continuing to the trilogue negotiations.
madam president, commissioner, just as we have defined and are implementing a 'green deal', that is, a pact to make the european union a global reference in the energy transition and decarbonisation, we also have to implement a 'data deal' for citizenship and competitiveness. a 'data deal' where european values are respected and where privacy-respecting access to data can be transformed into innovation, competitiveness, strategic autonomy and better services for citizens. the rules laid down in the regulation under review aim at fair data sharing, with benefits for the economy, for the efficiency of governance and public services and for consumers. they are a pillar of the inclusive digital transition with which the european union has to make a difference in the data economy and the new gigabyte society. a digital transition that leaves no one behind, that fights inequalities and promotes dignity. this regulation provides a strong foundation for a digital decade that can achieve its objectives and inspire, in the principles and values underpinning it, global regulatory dynamics in the area of access to and use of data. it will build upon data spaces that will be the pillars of further policy integration in concrete terms, such as the european health data space. we have to succeed in this date deal.
madam chair, the data act is the leading law regulating the way industrial data is transferred, accessed and shared. i thank the rapporteur for this report and all those who worked on it. it's actually unlocking the untapped potential of business-to-business and business-to-government data sharing. i believe the proposed amendments will bring many benefits to the citizens. some of these include improved personalised medicine, new mobility solutions and contributions to the european green deal, of course. the report approved by the itre committee also clarifies the types of data falling within the scope of the regulation in order to apply the new rules to different players and to strengthen the protection of business secrets for data owners. the commission has also provided a number of additional information to the commission on the use of the public emergency scenario in the context of the implementation of the public emergency scenario. the commission considers that the proposed amendments to the cfds are not sufficient to ensure that the cfds are not used to circumvent the requirements of the cfds. these changes put users at the centre and that is the direction we need to take in the future, not just when it comes to data legislation.
madam president, in my first mandate, i had the privilege of being a rapporteur for the gdpr, which was all about protecting people’s data. now things have moved on, and it’s really about utilising data for people’s advantage. speakers mentioned that 80% of our industrial data is not utilised. so, there is a challenge there to make us competitive and i’m sure commissioner breton will be addressing that in every way he can. also, later on today, we will be voting on the epbd about refurbishing buildings. data is going to play a huge part there in reducing emissions so that consumers can use data to use their appliances at the optimum time and thus reduce their electricity bills and also, of course, reduce emissions. also, data on the household stock in general will be very important in encouraging financial institutions to make green mortgages available. so, hopefully we can utilise the data to the best advantage of our citizens.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to congratulate this parliament on its very strong commitment to this initiative which, as many, many of you have mentioned, is absolutely essential to guaranteeing our european place in the data economy. it is crucial that all actors, large companies, smes, consumers and public authorities can benefit from the value of data. and the debate that has just ended has clearly demonstrated this. i take note of the support, your support for your balanced approach to unlocking data while maintaining incentives to invest in connected products. and to that end, we welcome the clarifications that have been made to the definitions which are quite relevant to guarantee legal certainty in practice. of course, i am aware of the discussions on the protection of trade secrets, which is a very important topic. but the data law is precisely about building, establishing a real balance that fully respects the protection of commercially sensitive data, while avoiding heavy, heavy, artificial barriers that would prevent access and use of data, especially in smes, which we know will generate innovations and services. and it seems to me that parliament is preserving this essential balance in this report. in this context, i would also like to note the comments on the importance of the sme-friendly framework which simplifies access to data. we obviously take account of the interests of smes, which are at the heart of our industry, in all the provisions. again, the data act also sets the conditions to recreate competition in the cloud market and also reduce our dependencies. the data protection act is a horizontal framework, just like the dsa, you remember, which of course allows us to take account of possible future developments, legislative and sectoral, if necessary. we are therefore now awaiting the council's position to begin the trilogues. the commission will support the adoption of the data law as soon as possible. i thank you and i thank the rapporteur again.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, i will be very brief in this speech. i would like to thank all the members who have spoken for their contributions and to assure them that i take note of everything they have said. i firmly believe that the agreement reached by the vast majority of the groups in this house deserves to be signed by all of us in a few minutes' time when we vote. the negotiations with the council will begin soon, and i am asking all members to give this parliament and this legislative proposal a strong negotiating mandate. we are facing a legislative proposal critical to our future. this is a truly disruptive proposal, a visionary proposal that could put us in a highly competitive and innovative position in a global context. all this is because the beneficiaries are all users, small and mediumsized enterprises, start-ups, large companies and, in short, our economy and our european society. finally, i would like to thank once again all the alternative rapporteurs, the committees and the committees which have spoken, in addition to the itre committee, the committees responsible for delivering opinions. and i also want to thank the teams of all the members who have spoken, the alternative rapporteurs and those of the other committees for the wonderful, extraordinary work they have done. it would have been really difficult without them, without their work, to get to the good harbour that we have reached. thank you very much, inspector. in conclusion, we still have a long way to go, and i hope that we will go together, hand in hand, and finally get the text and the opportunities we so desire. that's all i've got. see you in a little while at the vote.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. (the sitting was suspended at 10.23 a.m.)
written. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the amount of data generated by humans and machines is growing exponentially every year. industrial data can be a decisive factor in the development, innovation and transformation of all sectors of the european economy. sadly, today their full value remains untapped or concentrated in the hands of a few large corporations. in order to change this, longstanding issues of data access, fairness, interoperability and re-use will need to be adequately addressed. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the commission has taken a decision to impose a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of the product concerned originating in the prc. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of personal data, in particular by ensuring that the data are made available to the public free of charge, by ensuring that the public authorities of the member states are able to use non-personal data in the event of an emergency or to carry out specific tasks in the public interest, by promoting the ability of consumers to better understand technical details and their rights in relation to the data they generate, by ensuring that the right to legal remedy is guaranteed, etc. at the same time, however, there are still some elements that may undermine the objectives of the regulation and should be improved in the coming trilogues. while, for example, the need to protect trade secrets is unquestionable, the risk of their unjustified use to undermine users' access rights should be addressed.
we have with us today the president of lithuania, gitanas nausėda. mr president, dear gitanas, thank you for accepting our invitation to address the european parliament as part of our ‘this is europe’ series of debates. it has been over a year since russia launched its full-scale military invasion of independent and sovereign ukraine. in this time, lithuania has never held back from sending aid to ukraine and has been one of the strongest supporters of ukraine’s european perspective. the lithuanian people have welcomed more than 74 000 ukrainians into their homes and their hearts in what is the largest inflow of refugees in the history of the country. lithuania’s solidarity towards ukraine has never let up. thank you also for your commitment to a democratic belarus. dear colleagues, we have already witnessed our union becoming stronger and more resilient. facing these challenges together has made us more united. in this time of global instability, we need to speed up investment in europe to put our economy back on a stable path of growth. mr president, your push for a long-term competitiveness strategy, an ambitious trade policy, and boosting conditions for investment has been central to this vision of a better, more prosperous europe. dear president, the floor is yours.
president of the republic of lithuania. dear president of the european parliament, dear members of the european parliament, dear europeans, i am delighted to be able to contribute to this inspiring debate in the european parliament the most important political forum where fundamental questions are raised about the past, present and future of a united europe. i would like to dedicate my speech today to the idea of europe, which unites us and gives us strength in the face of many crises. today i am going to talk about the need to be bold in our pursuit of our goals and to defend what is most important and precious to us as europeans. i will speak about aid to ukraine and its place in europe, as well as the importance of historical memory and the great challenges facing europe today. i came to you just a few days after the commemoration of the restoration of lithuania's independence. what i am about to say will be at least partly determined by the specific lithuanian perspective that has been formed over the course of a long history on the eastern shore of the baltic sea, where different cultures have competed, interacted and enriched each other over the centuries. while the clashes between the great powers of history have often brought painful tragedies, they have also highlighted in our memory the inestimable value of freedom and human dignity. it is symbolic that exactly 700 years ago lithuanian ruler gediminas addressed the european society of his time in writing, inviting foreign knights, merchants, craftsmen, farmers, priests and monks to come to lithuania, where they could freely profess the christian faith and seek a better life. from this date, january 25, 1323, we begin to count the history of vilnius, the capital of lithuania. but equally important, gediminas' letters have cemented in our historical memory the ideal of lithuania as an open, tolerant, advanced european country, which we want to pursue. indeed, lithuania has been an integral part of europe for centuries and has maintained this fundamental link even in the face of the most difficult trials, occupations and terror. the hope that sooner or later we would return to a community of independent european states, built on a foundation of freedom, responsibility and trust, sustained our hopes in the years of captivity. on august 23, 1989, this belief inspired me, along with some two million other people in lithuania, latvia, and estonia, to protest against the illegal soviet occupation and the collusion of stalin and hitler. we stood in the 650 km long living chain of the baltic way and together we began our journey of liberation, including our return to europe and opening up to the world. today, it seems to me that the spirit of the baltic way is also shining brightly in ukraine's struggle for freedom, independence and a democratic future in europe. as i stand here, i recall the warning voiced by volodymyr zelenskyy, the president of ukraine and my dear friend, at the european parliament a month ago: that russia is seeking to destroy not only ukraine, but the european way of life, to destroy by violence and lies all of us who cherish freedom, honour and dignity, who respect the rule of law and human rights. we cannot allow this to happen if we really care about the future of europe. we must take a stand and show by our actions what is truly precious and valuable to us. this is a moment of historical breakthrough similar to the one lithuania experienced in january 1991, when the defenders of our freedom stood barehanded against soviet tanks, armed only by boundless courage. today, ukraine is going through an even more painful experience as it defends itself against the bloody murders of bucha, irpin and izyum. i am happy that europe and other freedom-loving nations did not succumb to the lies, disinformation and intimidation spread by russia. they stood united and extended a helping hand to ukrainians when they needed it most. after overcoming some doubts, we are now moving forward with more determination, strength and resilience than ever before. a united european response would not have been possible without the strong support and determination of european civil society. it is no coincidence that a month ago president zelenskyy addressed, first of all, europeans: all european citizens. i believe that today most european citizens understand that ukraine's fight is their fight too. in this fight, victory can only be achieved through the joint efforts of us all. i am proud to say that not only the lithuanian authorities, but also the civil society of our country have responded to the call for help of ukraine since the beginning of the war. the total amount of lithuanian support to ukraine, including from non-governmental organisations, businesses and individuals, is approaching 1,5% of gdp. in just three days last may, lithuanians raised €6 million for a combat drone, and in february this year, €14 million for tactical radars. lithuania remains ready to support ukraine. we look to you, members of the european parliament, with great hope, remembering that you have shown leadership on many occasions in the past when it has been necessary to speak boldly, directly and clearly on behalf of the european union as a whole. i would like to recall that 40 years ago, on 13 january 1983, the european parliament, by adopting a resolution condemning the soviet occupation 'on the situation in estonia, latvia and lithuania', became the only international institution to respond to the request for assistance from 45 dissidents from lithuania, latvia and estonia. eight years later, shortly after the kremlin had quietly blessed the bloody massacres in the baltic states, the european parliament openly called the soviet military action a military aggression and intervention. i would like to thank the members of the european parliament in particular for their strong support for the lithuanian prosecutors and judges who investigated and administered justice in the 1991 bloody january case and who are now facing pressure and persecution from russia as a result. this is extremely important, because the first victim of russian aggression is always the truth. a campaign of lies and distortions of history also set the stage for the invasion of ukraine. we must fight the lie first. dear friends, we are all paying a heavy price today for the lessons of world war ii that were not learned. after a resounding victory over one totalitarian regime, it was left to clearly name and condemn the crimes of the other soviet regime. it was this silence that enabled the soviet union, and later russia, to glorify the perpetrators of war crimes, ethnic cleansing, and other crimes against humanity. the distorted memory of world war ii eventually became a political tool to justify the crimes of the present, not only in russia but also abroad. to avoid repeating old mistakes, it is necessary to remember them. in this context, the european parliament's 2009 resolution on european conscience and totalitarianism, as well as the decision to proclaim 23 august as the 'day of remembrance for the victims of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes in europe' is of particular importance. in response to the intensified russian actions in the context of the aggression against ukraine, we called in july last year, together with the leaders of estonia, latvia, poland and romania, for a stronger european union focus on the politics of european historical memory, through educational programmes for schoolchildren, european union funding for research and international assessment of the crimes of communist regimes, and the commemoration of the victims of totalitarianism in brussels. i believe that these measures will bring the painful past more closely into the present in the minds of european citizens, thus leaving less room for russian propaganda. ignoring the past is never the answer. the more we remember the crimes of both totalitarian regimes and their collaborators in lithuania, the stronger and more resilient we become. we can respond more decisively and more precisely to today's challenges. i will be frank: the first reports of the massacres in bucho and other parts of ukraine were especially painful for the lithuanian people, because they reminded us of many such kisses that were given to our country when the soviet occupiers violently consolidated their illegal power, disgraced the remains of the tortured freedom fighters and remembered the mothers who dared to cry for their murdered children. it is truly sad that the terrible terror has returned to europe. all the more important is to ensure that these latest russian crimes do not go unpunished. the unpublished, year-on-year spread of evil not only threatens the fundamental european values, but also prevents the russian people from coming face to face with their past. so we must break the cycle of lies, of glorifying criminals and naked aggression before it destroys us all. the fate of ukraine and its people will not only depend on this, but also the prospects for a long-term and lasting peace in europe. we must strengthen sanctions against russia until it stops its aggression against ukraine and seek to hold those responsible for the crimes of aggression accountable. i therefore strongly support the establishment of a special international tribunal to investigate the crime of aggression, as well as the use of frozen russian assets for the reconstruction of ukraine. i believe that the resolution on the establishment of a special tribunal adopted by the members of the european parliament in january will help to achieve what until very recently seemed scarcely possible. ladies and gentlemen, the european community, which was created as a peace project, is today under unprecedented pressure. we are increasingly aware that peaceful life, freedom, democracy and material prosperity are no longer taken for granted. historical experience shows that the most effective way to expand the area of peace, stability and prosperity in europe has been and will be the enlargement of the european union. this is demonstrated by the successful enlargement of the european union in 2004, 2007, and 2013. the reforms were strongly supported by the then newcomers to the european union, who wanted a stronger europe. so today, if we want to make the european union even stronger, let us welcome new members. with this in mind, i warmly welcome the recent global decisions on ukraine, moldova and the western balkans. our help is needed more than ever in moldova, which is under enormous political and energy pressure from pro-russian forces. we must also give hope to the young generation and civil society in sacarduel, who are actively seeking change and a european future. there is no doubt that we will be asked to take unusual decisions in the negotiations on ukraine's membership of the european union. however, it has already demonstrated its ability to overcome the obstacles and to move firmly on the path of reform. until recently, no one would have believed that she would be able to achieve the status of a candidate in the midst of war. the revival of ukraine, which began with euromaidan, must end with a united europe. it is not only ukraine that needs europe, but europe needs ukraine, with all its vitality and determination to achieve its goals. i therefore dream of the day when the european parliament elected in ukraine will sit in this house and the flag of ukraine will be flown as a member state. the same flag that today has become the symbol of the glorious struggle for the dignity and freedom of ukrainians. lithuania has heard the european parliament's call to focus its efforts on the start of negotiations with ukraine this year. it is therefore of particular importance to ensure continued financial and technical support from the european union to ukraine in the implementation of its european reforms. ladies and gentlemen, lithuania still feels it is its duty to bear witness to the spirit of the baltic way in europe. we are keen to contribute to europe's global leadership. we want to create a world that is fair and just for all, and one that we can pass on to future generations with a clear conscience. it is no secret that some of europe's greatest challenges arise when it has to maintain a courageous and independent stance in dealing with authoritarian regimes those that seek to weaken it, undermine its foundations of democracy or the single market. but i think it's important to remember that together with our closest partners, we were, are and will be incredibly strong. therefore, if we are serious about maintaining a rules-based international order, we must not only take responsibility for ourselves, but also continue to develop and strengthen transatlantic relations. we must fully engage with like-minded parties to strengthen democracy, develop rules-based economic relations in the world, and advocate fair competition and against economic coercion. the issue of illegal migration also deserves our common attention. the need to agree on legal measures to combat illegal migration and its political instrumentalisation became even more pronounced after lithuania and other neighbouring states of the european union became the target of a hybrid attack by the belarusian and russian regimes in 2021. with national and local authorities facing increasing pressure, decisions at the eu level are needed. lithuania is well aware of the need to properly protect the external borders of the european union. we therefore call for the targeted use of european union funds, the smooth return of illegal migrants, increased attention to combating disinformation in third countries and the illegal trafficking of people, and the elimination of the main causes of illegal migration in the countries of origin. ladies and gentlemen, already next week we will be discussing in the european council one of the most important long-term issues, the question of the most appropriate preparations for the green transformation of europe and the safeguarding of the competitiveness of our economy. a group of 10 heads of state and government, including myself, have expressed their views in a joint brief for a long-term strategy for europe's competitiveness. these include the strengthening of the internal market, the technological and industrial basis, the removal of existing and more extensive barriers to trade in goods, services and private capital, and the promotion of international partnerships and rules based on commercial relations. our special attention should be directed to the countries of africa, latin america, the indies and the pacific. i would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the legislative act on critical raw materials and industry which was presented to the european commission this week. this legislation has contributed to the green and digital transformation of the european union and to the strengthening of the european economy's resilience. the european union is in a position to cope with the pressure and to take decisions very quickly. winter is come and gone, and nobody in europe is ever frozen. however, the energy price has risen sharply, which has had a significant effect on the general public, the economy and politics. we must draw conclusions and invest more in the green energy economy, which is actually becoming more and more important in terms of the climate of our planet. (beifall) nach meiner überzeugung is die entscheidung in lithuania to withdraw from the import of russian energy gas, öl und strom ein vorbild zur nachahmung durch andere staaten der europäischen union. we are very disturbed that russia is increasingly turning to the nuclear energy industry as a means of extortion. the commission notes that the aid granted to the company was granted in the form of a guarantee in the form of a guarantee for the purchase of the assets of the company. in the past week, this power plant, the largest nuclear power plant in europe, was again subject to a power supply by a russian missile. i thank the european parliament for its fundamental support for another danger from russia, namely the astravez nuclear power plant in belarus, and i hope that attention to this problem will not be lost in the future. the danger is that we're going to be caught. in contrast, the spit is still in the pipeline, and the belarus plant, with a second block of this nuclear power plant, is in the pipeline. the european union is not a party to the nuclear agreement. distinguished members of the european parliament, to conclude and set the tone for today's debate i would like to remind you that a united europe was born on the ruins of world war two. we have seen time and again serious crises give impetus to european renewal. there is something remarkable about the ability of all of us europeans to adjust and move forward with unwavering optimism whatever happens. our recent trials have once again led to reasonably fast, precise and accurate decisions. each time we confronted a migration crisis, a pandemic or a russian aggression. we made the right choices and most of the time we chose more europe, which means quicker decisions, more decisive action, and more resilience. i can assure you that lithuania will always work to be at the forefront of european decisions. this is our commitment, not only to europe but also to ourselves. we know better than anyone else that the risk of losing europe means we are making every effort to keep europe strong and resilient. we feel it is our duty to extend symbolically the baltic way so that the whole of europe can share the spirit of responsibility that 33 years ago united people between vilnius, riga and tallinn. it is a task of many generations of europeans, not just a single one, to contribute to shaping the future of europe. we all can and must work for more freedom, security and progress. we all have the responsibility to ensure that freedom-loving nations in our neighborhood are not neglected, wronged or forgotten. this is the europe i believe in and i am proud of. let us be the co-creators of such a europe.
on behalf of the s&d group dear president of lithuania, madam prime minister, dear colleagues, european citizens who are watching our debate, lithuania, like other countries with the same fate, which were destined to experience the oppression and aggression of soviet totalitarian russia, knows better than anyone the price of freedom won with blood. today, in this place, there is ukraine, which is fighting heroically for its freedom and ours. fighting the same, but with a different name, aggressor. it is therefore not surprising that from the first day of the russian invasion of ukraine until now, lithuania and the other baltic states have been the loudest voice, not only calling for urgent assistance in all its forms to ukraine, but also demanding a common and united response from the european union to stop russian aggression. right here, right now. let me remind you that for many years lithuania and the other baltic states have been constantly talking and warning about the true face of russia and the goals of its authoritarian putin regime. unfortunately, not all members of the european community wanted to hear these warnings. but those warnings have become a harsh reality for the people of ukraine. today, everyone has already admitted that the lithuanian and baltic countries' talk about the bloody goals of the kremlin regime was not just a historical insult. we did this because we knew how fragile freedom is and how high its cost is, and we wanted to ensure that this never happened again in europe and that no nation experienced brutal oppression and violation of its territorial integrity and freedom. i never did. i agree with our president. historical memory must not be lost in the archives. history cannot be forgotten, and putin's war is yet another example of this. i therefore call for a responsible, united and courageous approach to the establishment of a tribunal for russian war crimes, to take all possible measures and sanctions to weaken the power of the kremlin regime and to help ukraine win this brutal war, as this is also a guarantee of long-term european security. we must be united in building and expanding our defence capabilities - our security as europeans will depend on how we do it together, collectively and in concert. ladies and gentlemen, a strong and resilient europe can only be united, socially responsible, just and progressive. our aim as socialists and democrats is to strengthen the social foundations of europe and to ensure that the objectives adopted at the porto summit are fully implemented in all the member states. social europe must ensure that even those on minimum incomes can live in dignity and support their families, and not be left in poverty, that there are no children left in poverty, of which there are still over 18 million in europe today, that men and women receive equal pay for the same work, that our pensioners have a good old age, that the rights and freedoms of all people are protected. only a socially strong, resilient and responsible europe will be able to face the challenges of the green transition, digitalisation and the inevitable impact on europe's socio-economic model and labour market. but our people must be at the forefront of all reforms. so, together and bravely for europe!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, first of all i wish to welcome the president to the european parliament and, most importantly – even if we are a bit late – to say ‘happy independence restoration day’ to lithuania, of course. more than anything, colleagues, the full—scale invasion of ukraine has confirmed the need for european unity. and it is true that only together, as europeans, can we stand up against the brutal imperialism of the russian regime. we have shown here in the european parliament that we stand for unwavering solidarity with ukraine, be it financial, humanitarian, or military support, paving the way for ukraine to become a member of the european union. but of course, and you have mentioned it, mr president, we need full energy independence of the brutal russian regime. for too long politicians also, and especially from my home country, germany, have ignored the alert for from our eastern neighbours, like, for example, lithuania, and now we are paying a high price for this. but colleagues, one thing has to be understood. simply switching from one energy dependency on one dictatorship to another will not solve any of our problems. nor does the shift from one fossil fuel dependency to another non-renewable energy source. the only sustainable answer that will prevent us from having the exact same problem that we have been facing in the last year again, in two, five or ten years is to make our energy consumption 100% renewable. that is possible and we have no time to lose. no country in the european union will manage this alone. only a strong european green deal can make that possible. you are absolutely right. the green deal for long already has not only been a measure that we need to protect our climate or to stimulate our economy, it has become the most crucial measure also for strong security in the european continent. but, mr president, the fight against authoritarianism does not only happen, unfortunately, outside of the european union. we also have to stay vigilant inside because we can see attempts of undermining our democracy, of undermining separation of powers, rule of law and fundamental rights in the european union, brutal attacks on press freedom and journalists. we cannot stay silent in the european union on these developments because the eu is not only a community of trade – we share fundamental values. if we want the eu to be strong and true to its own values, we have to protect all our citizens from these attacks, no matter whether they are from lithuania or portugal, no matter their gender, their skin colour or their sexual orientation. because safeguarding freedom and human dignity means safeguarding freedom and human dignity for all.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. mr. president, i have to go. the current war in ukraine is a threat to international security and is the cause of the economic crisis. lasting peace is a paramount value. lasting peace is also essential, and solidarity is also essential to survive this difficult time. the fact that european solidarity is a big problem today, because some of the big countries are pursuing their own selfish policies. the union is also experiencing a crisis of values, the values which once built the community and which we are sadly abandoning. i say this primarily to the eu institutions, where there is no development of democracy and free political thought. unfortunately, the artificial power structure blocks the development of freedom, blocks against democracy, because it rejects the will of a large part of the electorate, even up to 50%. today's system combines the goal of power at all costs and the division of the chairs. this is a kind of usurpation of democracy. the two main forces in this parliament - the epp and the socialists, although they have theoretically different agendas, have been uniting for years immediately after the elections to prevent a third force and thus not have to implement their agendas. socialists promise social programs, but they don't deliver. they promise to take care of the poorest of the poor, but they promote carbon trading, which drives up prices and makes people poorer. the ppe declares that it cares about christian values, but does not defend life from conception to natural death, does not protect marriage as the union of a man and a woman and often supports gender ideology, which has nothing to do with true chastity. in addition, both forces are pushing for the creation of a european federation, which is destroying the europe of the homelands that its founders, schuman and others, had in mind. unfortunately, this artificial political system blocks free thought and ideas. the ppe's agreement with the socialists does not allow for any alternative, the so-called third force. such a system fosters the political corruption we see in parliament. this harmful and undemocratic practice is also being transferred to the member states. even our president gitanas nausėda is being attacked and his election is being questioned, even though he received 67% of the vote. it's not good for democracy. europe is becoming an ideological vacuum because of the ppe and the socialists. it's a mess. that is why, in the name of genuine european solidarity, we need a third or fourth force capable of healing europe, of restoring its true face, based on its roots. the ecr is the force that sees this and wants to change it, as we have discussed at the recent summits in warsaw and madrid. we also talked about the need to strengthen europe's energy independence and develop its own industries, including heavy and defence. in this way, we would not have any problems with the defense of europe in the age of aggression. ladies and gentlemen! europe and the union need more democracy and freedom based on christian values, the traditional family and free thought, because that is the true soul of europe.
on behalf of the id group. – madam president, president nausėda of lithuania, first of all i am more than happy to be here as from one from the baltic states, from estonia. and i really appreciate your several statements that latvia and lithuania have been together in history and the good and also in the bad times if we just remind the history, it was pretty easy for russia — they called it the soviet union at the time but it was russia, the same thing — to break down each country one by one because all those three countries, estonia, latvia and lithuania, had their own some kind of policy. and for moscow, it wasn’t very hard to have some kind of deals each by each. and the result we know pretty well and it’s just experience for the history. if you try to make some kind of deals with satan, you are the loser from the beginning, there is no chance. to remind some of the necessity of the support to ukraine. we all agree, most of us agree here. and there is different kind of ways to help ukraine. but the most necessary definitely is military aid. as we can see in the news, the next weeks and the next months will be very crucial in ukraine because both sides haven’t won. and if somebody’s saying that there is no winner in the war, there is. the winner can be only ukraine, because if they lose we will be the next ones. and there is no question about that. as i looked just on the statistics, the resources, those three baltic states have given the biggest military and financial aid to ukraine. estonia with 1%, latvia with 0.98%, lithuania with 0.65% of the gdp. and the fourth one is poland with 0.63%. at the same time, there has been very huge help from the us and from the uk. but they can do more. and the problem for us now is that we really don’t have a lot yet to really give to ukraine. but there are much more to give from the us, from the uk, also from germany and france. germany has given 0.17% of the gdp, france 0.07% of the gdp. those are just cold facts and numbers. and now the question is: are they really brave enough to make this change in the war or not? because if we will lose this momentum now, in the next month, we will face the new war in the next two or three years. so just a moment to think which kind of chances we have if somebody is talking about the peace negotiations. the peace can be only if the conditions are good for us. and the only conditions that are good for us can be that there is no ambitions for russia to start any kind of aggression in next decades. i will not say ‘forever’. we shouldn’t be very naive. russia will not disappear. but the only thing what we can do is just to weaken them as much as possible and to show that they cannot win their neighbours. and finally, i would like to really thank you that lithuania was one of the countries two years ago who showed how to deal with illegal migration. there is no question that if you are the war refugee, you need help. there is no doubt. but what we saw in belarus, it was just illegal migration, what was used by belarus for the hybrid attacks. and lithuania, together with poland, just shut down the border and said ‘there is no way to enter to the european countries through those countries illegally’, because if you open the border, there would be no ending, no ending at all. and you did absolutely well. so labai ačiū, thank you so much. and good luck for the baltic cooperation.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the degree of support in georgian society for the country’s european aspirations has been so high that it has been very easy for years for us to support georgia’s aspirations. no serious political party has been able to fully ignore the degree of support that georgians have expressed with regard to the country’s european future. even those in power have always felt it necessary to pay lip service to those aspirations, even when their actions have spoken a different language. we’ve seen problems in the area of the rule of law, the independence of judiciary, media, freedom and political polarisation. i think the attempt by the georgian government and governing party to adopt the so-called foreign agents law was just one example of a long list of problems in the area of rule of law in the country. what is concerning is that recently, even though the draft law was dropped, even the words do not support these aspirations. the ridiculous accusations against the european parliament and the european union will ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, as the chair of the south caucasus delegation, i have two messages to the georgian people. first, we members of the european parliament know and respect the choice of closer european and transatlantic integration. you have been very clear and consistent in expressing your european aspiration. we support you and we stand with you on european path. second, we will never, i repeat, never drag you into any war. we remember the war of 2008 and human lives lost. we will never recognise occupation of georgia. we will always support georgia’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. we wish georgian people peace, security and prosperity. our message to the georgian politicians is very clear. war in ukraine opened a window of opportunity for georgia. do not waste it. remember that today ukrainians are fighting and dying for their future, but also for your future. attacks on ukraine and president zelenskyy by georgian officials are disappointing and unacceptable. the window of opportunity will not remain open forever. do what your people expect from you.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues. first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur and congratulate him for this report. as the chair of the south caucasus delegation, i would like to highlight some points. firstly, the deployment of the european union mission in armenia is a very important step for the security of the region and a significant contribution to further engagement of the eu in the south caucasus. secondly, i appreciate armenia’s commitment to the cepa agreement and recognise armenian achievements, including judicial reforms, the anti-corruption strategy and media freedom. at the same time, a lot remains to be done, including on protection of minorities, the lgbtq community and gender equality. thirdly, i would like to reiterate that the eu’s eastern partnership policy is tailor—made and based on the ‘more for more’ principle. the future of eu—armenia relations depends on armenia's political choices and commitments, some of which could be very challenging, including the customs union with russia and belarus and the csto. finally, i hope that constructive peace talks between armenia and azerbaijan will finally start.
madam president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, first of all i would naturally like to congratulate the commission. on the one hand, because of the success of the windsor framework agreement for northern ireland, to which the vice-president also contributed, and also because of the success achieved in washington with regard to the inflation reduction act and its impact on europe. but i would like to make an important point to the president of the council, in particular, on the subject of trade agreements, in connection with this summit or this european council. it is essential to give a timely and rapid answer to the question of mercosur. the latin american continent has waited 20 years. we have a deal ready -- it's not the ideal deal, but it's the possible deal. and we are leaving countries like brazil, like argentina, like paraguay, like uruguay and like so many others in the south american continent, who are waiting for this example; we are clearly handing them over to the power of china, to the power of russia and their geopolitical orientation. it is essential, not only for economic but also for geopolitical reasons, to conclude the agreement with mercosur.
madam president, madam president of the commission, mr president of the european council, welcome, it is a pleasure to be here to review the conclusions of the last european council meeting and i shall focus in particular on the european council's proposal and support for the revision of the tax rules. the debate about the need to adapt our economic governance framework had been on the table for some time. parliament adopted a report calling for changes to these tax rules more than a year ago. the commission has opened the debate and i am glad that the council has supported it and that it is proposing that the commission should be encouraged to present these new legislative initiatives, which will undoubtedly move us towards a more flexible model, taking greater account of the financial and fiscal position of each of the member states. in addition, in the new framework which the commission proposes - more flexible and where there is more negotiation - we must also demand that parliament be more involved in the overall monitoring and control of the management of the european semester.
madam president, mr president, mr vice-president, i am glad to see that the european union, the member states, stay firmly together on our further support to ukraine. however, i would like to see also europe’s member states stand firmly together also when it comes to mitigating the economic impact of the war – the impact on our economies, on our competitiveness. china leads the world in 37 out of 44 key critical technologies and europe is just lagging behind. we need to ensure we can compete as a global leader in strategic technologies and succeed in this digital and climate transition. but in order to achieve this, we need to include all clean energies available in the new industry act. for some it will be solar, for others, nuclear. this is what is missing, from my point of view, in the council’s conclusions.
madam president, well, at least we have about ten times more people on the balcony there than we have in the chamber, so it’s a really interesting debate. first of all, when ms von der leyen was speaking about the influence of china, if somebody’s surprised that we have to rely now on the raw materials that are controlled by the chinese, well, welcome on earth. of course we are relying on china if we are following the green deal policy, and all with the sun and wind because, well, just a pure fact is that most of the resources are in asia and in africa. and in africa, most of the resources are controlled by the chinese. so good luck with the green deal. secondly, i’m just using the chance to have a small debate with our lovely vice-president of parliament, our italian colleague from the socialists and democrats group, who mentioned in the first round of the debate that migration is a great issue. of course it’s a great issue. and she proposed one solution is the distribution of the migrants. well, i would like to say that it’s a very nice proposal, but very kindly i say no because it is a very bad idea and it has been always very bad idea. if you look at the solutions for migration, well, we just have a very good experience from poland and lithuania: if you are illegal, close the border and send back; if you are a real refugee, you will get help. but most of those people, they are not refugees, they are just migrants. so good luck in italy with solving migration.
mr president, as we know, one of our weaknesses as the eu is the difficulty in establishing unified and coherent foreign policy strategies. that this would happen to us with what is one of the most relevant strategies – our relationship with china – would be particularly serious. we have indeed a good basis to update such a strategy in president von der leyen’s recent speech at the epc, which i can endorse almost from top to bottom. but if we send contradictory messages to xi jinping, we lose credibility, for instance, as when president macron says what he said in relation to taiwan. the maintenance of the status quo in the taiwan strait is not an internal matter. if it breaks down due to increasing chinese aggressiveness, this will have regional and international repercussions, as everyone knows. we cannot break the fragile european consensus on such sensitive issues with unilateral steps such as this. with china, we need to establish a relationship that takes into account both the evolution of the chinese regime in recent years – more authoritarianism and more willingness to shape the international order – as well as our own interests. and this implies cooperating bilaterally and multilaterally whenever possible, reducing the enormous strategic dependencies that we have, which represent a high economic risk, and never, ever giving up in the defence of human rights and democratic values.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, let’s be very frank to ourselves: eu-china relations are not good. they could be better and they should be better. let me make three points on that. first, i think that we need to find a new equilibrium with china because, like it or not, china is here as a global player and it will remain so. we have to adjust ourselves to that new multipolar situation. secondly, i believe that we need cohabitation rather than confrontation. therefore, i was glad to hear, particularly from the commission president, that we are starting to talk about ‘de—risking’ instead of ‘decoupling’, because that, in my feeling, is a rational policy. thirdly, last but not least, i believe that we need to de-escalate tensions over taiwan, not to escalate further. i think there are ways to do that. perhaps we could also listen a little bit more to what the kmt opposition has to say about cross—strait relations, and not just the ruling dpp. i can hear mr macron’s call for strategic autonomy – and yes, if there is a case, there is no better case than china for eu strategic autonomy. but it deserves to be realistic, to be pragmatic and to be reasonable on our side.
mr president, first of all, we have to understand what it means to have a common foreign policy towards china? in china there is one capital, in the us there is one capital, and we have 27 capitals. so when we have some kind of common line, who is setting up the common line and common policy when we are talking about climate policy, when we’re talking about trade policy, about defence, about the military? and we can see very different opinions from paris to berlin and towards the north and eastern countries. so that’s why it’s a bit confusing to hear about the messages from paris, from mr macron, that we need strategic autonomy. it could be a very nice idea, of course. but what will the eu, the european countries, do and what will france do when china attacks taiwan? there is some kind of tensions in france that we shouldn’t rely too much on the us. okay, fine. what is the alternative? have we invested enough in defence? no. just now, i checked the facts. france has given to ukraine military aid twice less than germany, on the same level with greece. and we are still waiting for the end of the war and we are not capable to win the war as soon as possible. and when there is a new war in taiwan, yes, we can make some very nice resolutions and make some statements. yes, we support democracy and human rights and values. yeah, they really care about that in china. but other than the fact about democracy and human rights – yes, i know that the european parliament would like to export all the same values in every corner of the whole world, and i’m not really a fan of that – we should also take care of the economic fact when we are dreaming about the green deal and electric cars. in taiwan they are producing over 60% of the world’s semiconductors. and when taiwan is gone, then good luck with your green deal and electric cars. so now it’s the crucial question: are we choosing the chinese side, talking just a very nice word: ‘yeah, let’s be partners, let’s be friends’? or are we understanding the realistic world – that we have a rival on the chinese and russian side and we have a partner on the american side? because we are not capable here to invest enough in our defence and in our economy.
on behalf of the id group. – mr president, good morning, dear colleagues, first of all, we have to check on the facts when we’re talking about the kids who are forcibly deported to russia. there are numbers between 16 000, at least, to 300 000 of the kids who are forced to be deported to russia. so it’s a terribly huge amount of kids. and the main reason why they are being deported to russia is to make them russians, in the new russian families. it has been several times in history at the same time, so it’s repeated again. just, for example, like in the 40s, by the same russians there were forcibly deported kids and women to siberia – over 30 000 from estonia. and 75 % of them were kids and children, and women. secondly, there are hundreds of evidence how the same soldiers have raped kids in the age from three. there are hundreds of evidence how those kids are raped and killed. and, of course, now the outcome finally is that there is warrants by the icc. but now the question is how we can force all the member states of the icc to really follow the arrest warrant. there are member states 123 all over the world, except china and some other countries. but now we have heard by some member states that even if vladimir putin will go to their country, that they will not arrest this man. there are some kind of difficult signals from south africa, who should keep the brics meeting in august and they are still shaking that, oh, maybe if the putin will come, maybe we will not arrest him. there has to be consequences by the eu and by the commission. if some of the member states of the icc will not follow the arrest warrant, there has to come economic sanctions and there has to be really the outcome that we will limit our own donations to the all of the member states who we are donating, especially in africa and the third countries, and who are responsible to follow the icc rules. and if they are not following the rules and if they will not follow the arrest warrant, there has to be consequence economically there directly, because otherwise there is no point for the icc or for international rules. why we should follow them, if there are no consequences.
in the name of the faction id. honorable president, mr. michel, good colleagues, good guests on the bench! first, we cannot overcome or reverse the fact that israel is defending its right to sovereignty, to the life of its people, and the clear aggressor here is hamas, which unfortunately is supported by a very large number of palestinian arabs. so they have every right to defend their country and fight the enemy. but of course, hamas's actions and the actions of the palestinians are also victorious for russia. and if you had any meetings of the upper house, i wonder if you'd discuss how the cultural relations between the european union and russia are progressing. last year, last fall, the european union cancelled plans to host the european film festival in russia because russia was invading ukraine at the same time. but this year, at this time, from november 1 to 15, there's another european film festival, online, but still in russia, where the same russian citizens, who are overwhelmingly supportive of vladimir putin and russia's war of aggression against ukraine, can enjoy the beautiful subtitles of european films in russian, which are very cute. and the european union ambassador in moscow said that culture unites the russian and european people. but this culture is so unified that at the same time russian missiles can destroy ukrainian museums and cinemas and theaters, and at the same time russian citizens can happily sit at home and watch the best films in europe. so the question for mrs von der leyen is whether the european union needs an ambassador to russia who can restore relations as if nothing had happened, even though there is war, people are dying, some territories are occupied and the russians continue to threaten their neighbours. is this the solidarity of the european union with ukraine that we have been talking about here for almost two years?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i am a former co-rapporteur, the sixth one who left in protest against the breaking of the principle of consensus of co-rapporteurs. europa was once abducted by zeus, as in greek mythology. now, it is a second attempt to hijack europe. massive transfer of nine cardinal competencies to european level and few competencies left for member states. nearly complete liquidation of unanimity and veto rights in 63 cases, leading to a constitutional coup d’état to create, in place of the eu, a dystopian superstate to degrade members’ countries to the position of regions. it is done under the false pretext of preparing for enlargement, but the only significant veto left is the veto on taking new members. it is the himalayas of hypocrisy. scientific research shows that enlargements did accelerate and facilitate decision-making, not the contrary. enlargement in fact necessitates decentralisation, not centralisation. we have to defend the eu treaties as they are. we have to defend the eu itself against the superstate in the making. to defend christian-inspired schuman’s europe of sovereign member states against turning the eu upside down into communist ventotene-inspired superstate, liquidating de facto nation states. it is not federalisation, it is centralisation. this project is anti-federal, contrary to what is being said, because it favours largely populated states, contrary to the fundamental federal principle of equal representation of all members, irrespective of population. it is undemocratic because it takes decisions away from members, where democracy works, towards european level, where democratic deficit is huge and no european demos exist. from democracy towards oligarchic hegemonic autocracy. it departs from ‘united in diversity’ motto towards ‘united in uniformity’. god save the union from self-destruction. ‘no’ to depriving citizens of their millennial states and their heritage. ‘no’ to the elite grab of power behind the back of citizens hidden behind empty slogans. tomorrow, vote in favour or against the abduction of europe.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report on the report. i am very pleased that the commission has made a number of proposals. our vision of this federalist dragon is as follows: the so-called conference on the future of europe was a failure. at least 13 member states have already indicated that they do not want to reform the treaty on the basis of the results of this fake conference. they oppose the findings of the carefully selected so-called citizens' panels, which were in no way representative of what the citizens of the member states really want. this conference was more of a federalist comic theater and was in no way the voice of the european people calling for more european union. in almost all the referendums before the lisbon treaty, the project of a stronger union was rejected, above and beyond the sovereignty of the member states. what we must do is start from scratch and negotiate at council level, in accordance with the wishes of each member state, a treaty that restores the long forgotten subsidiarity. i am sure that the commission will be able to take a decision on the matter. only then will we save european cooperation, closer to the citizens rather than the totally alienated and centralised eu state that the federalist lobby in this parliament has in mind.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, in this debate it is necessary to recall the process of bringing the lisbon treaty to the attention of the people, showing the contempt and disrespect of the institutions of the european union for the popular will, expressed in several countries, to reject the european constitution. now, once again, the farce of the conference on the future of europe is being brazenly pursued by the problematic attempt to cover up the real underlying objectives, including the end of the principle of unanimity in the council decision-making process, the challenge of the equality of states in the decision-making process and the legitimate prerogative of refusing decisions against the interests of their peoples, or the strengthening of mechanisms of conditioning, blackmail and interference to impose neoliberal, militaristic and power-concentration policies on supranational institutions dominated by the great powers, which disrespect the sovereignty of the states and the interests of workers and peoples. nor a word about the changes that are really needed: the repeal of the lisbon treaty, the budget treaty or the stability pact, among many others, which would pave the way for a europe of effective cooperation between equal sovereign states on the rights of social progress and peace.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the proposal to revise the european treaties, we are starting today to write a new important page in the history of europe and our institution. the citizens asked us out loud: parliament listened and replied because it needed a different, more pragmatic european union; a european union with the tools to respond to crises with determination; a union that is a force of union and not of division, a place where each member can prosper socially, economically and culturally and not be crushed or isolated by rigid economic rules that are outdated. the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. european integration is a stepwise path that has been stalled for too long, since the 2007 lisbon treaty, and which needs to be re-launched with strength and conviction. our proposal for a revision offers many clues for a discussion on the future of our europe, starting with the need to strengthen our democracy through the recognition, for example, of parliament's legislative initiative or the role of the co-legislator on the budget. but we must also look at the role of the union on the international stage and increase our credibility as a world actor, for example through a european defence community. this report is just the beginning of a long and complex journey which we hope the member states will have the courage to take, putting aside prejudices and nationalisms, which should not be confused with national identities, which find their recognition and strength in the european union itself.
mr president, we all know that the reform of the treaties of the european union is always a difficult exercise, an exercise which cannot be done against the will of the member states, but rather requires unanimity in the council, which is obviously only possible on the basis of political commitments, which are difficult to achieve. the european parliament does not ignore these difficulties, but we have a political obligation to follow up the calls made by the citizens at the conference on the future of europe and to put concrete proposals on the council table to start a serious discussion, with a view to convening a convention as soon as appropriate to discuss possible changes to the treaties. this is just the beginning of a long conversation, but it is a conversation that we must have, and even more so when we know that enlargement requires reforms not only of the candidate countries but also of institutional and financial reforms at european level, so that the european union can absorb new member states. however, we must not forget that the lisbon treaty has flexibility mechanisms whose potential is far from being exploited. in recent years, this flexibility has enabled us to respond to crises with measures that many considered impossible. we should therefore take advantage of these flexibility mechanisms, which can be part of the solution for differentiated integration in the enlargement process, but we should also start a serious debate on a possible revision of the treaties.
mr president, is there a single colleague in this house who can say that the european union still has an impact on the international scene? is there anyone among us who can honestly claim that the situation will be better when we are 30, 32, 35 without having first adopted our institutional way of working? is there anyone among us who believes that china, india, brazil, russia will give us a moment's respite to adapt to the pace of international diplomacy? he lived through that time. we've been living in delusions for too long. this uncertainty ended no later than early morning on 24 february 2022. when it turns out that a long-shared idea is only an illusion, it takes courage to question that illusion. if we do nothing, illusion quickly becomes a collective lie. yes, to believe that everything will be better if nothing changes is to lie not only to the citizens of the 27 member states but also to the citizens of the candidate countries. i would therefore not hesitate for a second to vote in favour of the report on changing the treaties.
mr president, commissioner, the launch of the conference on the future of europe raised many hopes that europe would move towards more democracy, more efficiency, more convergence and more respect for diversity. unfortunately, the process will remain unfinished. it is a failure for our mandate not to have obtained the treaty review process which the european union so needs. the report we will approve tomorrow, however, has the merit of setting out the broad lines for the revision of the treaties that would be necessary. i would like to welcome the following developments in this parliament's position, given my sensitivity as a defender of minority peoples and languages. first, the commitment to strengthen article 3 of the treaty on european union, to promote, and not only respect, its rich cultural diversity. in this regard, our group supports the spanish presidency's wish that catalan be treated with basque and galician as an official language of the european union. articles 2, 10 and 19 of the treaty propose that the fight against discrimination be extended to national minorities and their language. finally, article 299 proposes that regional parliaments with legislative powers in relation to european union policies be heard and taken into account by the european institutions. that is why we will vote for this report.
mr president, the report is living proof of how dangerous the eu has become. one is reminded of a well-known story about dr frankenstein, who wanted to create a perfect being and instead created a monster. what the report proposes is the grabbing of all essential competences of the member states, thereby reducing the national institutions to ornamental functions. should the reform come into effect, they will have less power than german länder. who the hell do you think you are to place yourselves above the member states? you do not have the legislative initiative. thank heavens for that! your democratic legitimacy: scarce. your record: lamentable. your respect for law: non-existent. you want to govern the entire continent, but are not even capable of supplying hot water in the building. unfortunately, the eu will probably go about it in the traditional eu way: keeping millions of people out of it and exerting pressure on national institutions by all sorts of foul tricks. and the final point: it is not that some parts of the project are good and some are somewhat excessive. all of it should be rejected and never, ever brought back again!
president. - the next item is the report (doc. ducks and geese forcibly fed, literally pushed through their jaws to produce foie gras; animals whose throats are cut unstopped until they bleed to death. one by one, horrible cases of animal cruelty that should have been banned long ago. unfortunately, these crimes are protected by the european constitution. i call on parliament, the commission and all the european member states to abolish this absurd exception from the treaties. in addition, in a world affected by climate change and biodiversity loss, the ultimate goal of the common agricultural policy may no longer be to increase production indefinitely. infinite growth is impossible on a finite planet. we need a common food policy instead of a common agricultural policy. these are the treaty amendments that will help europe and the planet to move forward.
mr president, our treaties proclaim that this union is founded on the respect for human rights. but what do these grand statements mean at the end of the day, if citizens cannot uphold their rights as european citizens before the states that breach them? they are – as we say in catalan, the language that is still forbidden in this parliament – (phrase in catalan), that is they mean nothing. colleagues, these proposals lack ambition and a clear idea of what is at stake, because any reform of the treaties must first and foremost include a direct mechanism to enforce the rights of the citizens equally. in hungary, yes, but also in spain. this mechanism has to be shielded from political opportunity and the interests of certain states of protecting their allies. any reform that does not address this is a step towards more empty words and more authoritarian backsliding.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the proposal for the reform of the treaties, this parliament has a responsibility and i am sorry for the honourable members, but also for the legitimacy of taking a fundamental step towards a europe that decides and protects its citizens, to strengthen our european democracy and make parliament more of a leading force, also through the power of legislative initiative. the decision-making process needs to be changed and the right of veto over many matters should be abolished, with qualified majority voting normally introduced in the council. today more than ever we need europe to speak with one voice in the world. this requires increasing the union's competence in defence, foreign affairs and the global challenge to climate change. it is urgent to build up and strengthen the union's competences in health and social policies and to introduce digital skills. and of course, you need to be able to have your own resources. we are at a crucial crossroads and from this house a strong and shared demand must come to us to begin an ambitious constitutive path. i say to the spanish presidency that this will be a historic moment for us: for the first time we will use our powers to reform the treaties. but the story is made together. i would like to thank you for your help in forwarding our request to the european council without a vote and persuading it to respect parliament's wishes and to convene the convention. together we will have taken a pivotal step in the future history of our continent. as altiero spinelli said, the road is long and difficult but it must be traveled. and it will be. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card)
blue-card question. – thanks a lot, madam, for a very good speech. i enjoyed that. i just have a small, tiny question, because we need more debate here, just not only speeches, because we all like our own voices. you mentioned in your speech that the european parliament needs more strength and power, and to work together more and more. but of course, in my understanding, if the european parliament has more strength and more power, it has to come from the national parliaments because if some parts are getting more strength and power, it means it has to come from somewhere. how do you believe those 705 meps here can represent 440 million people in a better way than their national parliaments, with the local mps who are elected directly from their member states? can we really represent the people better here in the one house than 27 national parliaments?
mr president, dear colleagues, first of all, of course, i think you can propose any kind of resolution, whatever you want. but the good thing is that it does not matter we are going to vote tomorrow, it does not cost anything because it will change nothing. so it means that your job is useless and you are paid for useless work. congratulations for your voters. the second thing, the small, tiny thing that you are forgetting is the still 27 member states with their national parliaments and constitutions. just to remind you, small, tiny facts, i do not know all the member states, but at least i know very well my own country. eleven years ago, in 2012, when we had a financial crisis and we proposed the financial stability mechanism, it was in the supreme court of estonia, and the supreme court declared very clearly and strictly: if there will be one day the opening of the treaties and a change of treaties, the result will be more power to the european union level. there is a new referendum needed because the mandate given by the people in 2003 is not sufficient, because the eu has changed in the last 20 years so much that the people have never, ever voted for this kind of eu what you would like to have because you are crazy federalists. you are living in a bubble here with a great money and salary, and you do not care about those 27 different member states – the different climate situations that we have different migration problems, defence problems. that is why you are absolutely crazy guys. and this paper tomorrow after voting, you can just go to the bathroom because it is useless. so congratulations – it does not matter how you are going to vote, we will never, ever change the treaties because you do not fight. you do not want to fight with us on the referendum because this is the rule of law and democracy. (the speaker agreed to take two blue-card questions)
blue-card question. – in 14 years in parliament, this is only the second time i have availed of blue-cards. so i have a question for you. you said we were useless, that we were getting paid to do nothing, that we were ineffective. how would you classify yourself and what are you getting paid for?
blue-card answer. – well, for me personally, i have been elected directly to the national parliament twice. and before eu elections last time, i said clearly to my voters – i got the fifth best result in the whole country – the less the european parliament is doing, the better it is. so my work here is to block as much as possible, because the power has to stay in the national parliaments, because we know better than most of you here, because you have no clue how the world is turning around. so that was my promise, that is why i was voted here and that is why i will be re-elected with three times more votes – because i am just now leading in the polls in estonia, so congratulations for me, not for you, unfortunately. but anyway, that is why i am here.
blue-card question. – my question was in the same vein. it was very short: why are you here? but you’ve just very eloquently explained that your presence here is absolutely useless, that your aim – your stated aim – is actually to be as useless as possible. and on top of that, you do not achieve anything. so do you not think you would serve your voters better by leaving?
blue-card answer. – thank you, madame, because i heard that you are the last time here because you made a great mistake with your parties, so we will not see you next time here. i think we have a different understanding of ‘useless’. my work here is just – the main thing – to disturb you, because every day you will come here in this parliament and you do not like me – and that is the greatest thing ever. because you hate us. we will never, ever leave you here alone to occupy our member states. and that is why i will stay here, not like you.
dear president, council, commissioner, colleagues, and all of you! the current situation at the finnish-russian border has been created by russia to achieve its political objectives, to punish finland for its critical views on russia and its nato membership. this isn't the first time innocent people have been used for robbery. last year, belarus, on the border with lithuania, now russia, repeatedly carried innocent people on buses to the border with finland and abandoned them in inhuman conditions and very harsh weather conditions. i feel sorry for every human being. russia's behavior is inhuman and unacceptable. i would like to emphasise that finland, like any member state of the european union, has the right to protect its borders from illegal immigration and we have an obligation to support and assist finland. i want to thank frontex for their willingness to help finland and, if necessary, estonia. only our joint action sends a very clear message to russia and belarus: the use of innocent people as a political weapon is unacceptable and unattainable.
author. – madam president, colleagues, on the eve of his country receiving the eu candidate candidacy status, a georgian citizen, tamaz ginturi, was killed by russian occupying forces on the administrative boundary line between georgian-controlled territory and the russian-occupied tskhinvali region. while the killing was a particularly brutal and violent crime committed by the occupants, it was far from an isolated event. since russia launched an aggression against georgia and seized parts of its sovereign territory in 2008, there has been a constant stream of similar incidents, where georgian citizens, local residents, have been harassed, where their human rights have been violated, the freedom of movement has been illegally restricted. simultaneously, the russian occupying forces and the so-called authorities of the illegal entities that they have propped up are moving on with a creeping annexation, modernisation and passportisation. today, the eu monitoring mission is the only permanent international presence that operates close to the administrative boundary line, monitoring the situation on the ground. as such, it plays an important role in providing a modicum of stability in a tense and fragile situation. it is extremely important that we provide the eumm with adequate resources that are urgently needed for it to carry out its mission. the us always supported and will always support georgia’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. but while we demand the end to the occupation and the restoration of georgia’s territorial integrity, we should also do more to hold those immediate perpetrators of the human rights violations accountable. for that end, we call on the council to put together, in consultation with georgian authorities, a list of individuals responsible for the human rights violations and impose effective targeted sanctions against them.
the reporter. chairman of the sitting! with this digital conversion package of legal cooperation, we will make it faster and easier for legal authorities to cooperate and exchange information in cross-border judicial matters. this in turn means that citizens also benefit from faster and easier judicial procedures and justice. as a digital country, we in estonia know very well that digital information exchange must be reliable and secure. we all know that cyberattacks are the new normal and therefore it is particularly important that legal information about our citizens is moved in a secure environment and not through the public internet or cloud services. in this case, security shall be ensured by a decentralised it system. the new rules also allow citizens to communicate with legal authorities in cross-border judicial matters digitally by using an e-signature. it is therefore of the utmost importance that this regulation does not reduce the level of confidence of the e-signature, i.e. the e-signature with the highest level of confidence is equated to the physical signature. this regulation lays down common rules for videoconferencing interviews. video interviews are already taking place in some countries, but each member state has its own rules and regulations, and that creates problems. the regulation harmonises the rules of procedure for video surveillance and thus provides citizens with the opportunity to participate in judicial proceedings by video. in other words citizens are given the opportunity to hold videoconferences and can take advantage of this opportunity if they do not wish or cannot physically travel to another country. member states shall ensure that the relevant technical solution and access are provided to citizens wishing to participate in a videoconference. ensuring uniform rules of procedure is particularly important in criminal proceedings. it is also very important to introduce the rules of procedure to citizens so that they understand the way the conference is conducted, its pros and cons. they must be informed of their rights, including the right to a lawyer and to an oral translation. it is important that citizens can make the best decision for or against the use of videoconferencing based on objective information and appropriate to them. the decision of the person to be heard by videoconference shall be voluntary and explicit and shall be verified by the authority. the regulation also provides for equal access to videoconferencing, meaning that all forms of discrimination, including discrimination against persons with disabilities, are prohibited. it is important that the rights that are guaranteed to individuals in the real world are also guaranteed in the digital world. the judicial authorities must find technical solutions that are suitable for all. a pan-european digital access point will be established to enable citizens to exchange information and documents with the judiciary and to pay for services. we've had a long discussion about the digital revolution schedule, and i'm glad we were able to agree on a realistic timeline. yeah, different steps take time, but i can say with certainty that we didn't write in the air and we didn't mess with the process in vain. effective digital cooperation between legal authorities requires the training of officials and experts who are already using or are going to use these tools. the training obligation rests with the member states. we must also be prepared for some conservative officials working in the legal profession who may not adopt new solutions. however, again i can confirm from my estonian practice that the innovations will be accompanied if they are understandable, convenient and accessible.
the reporter. chairman of the sitting! this digital round of crossborder legal cooperation is one piece of legislation that we seek to make our citizens' lives easier and procedures more accessible. we are already seeing how much cross-border our lives are, and you might think that this trend is only getting worse. this in turn means that the need for cross-border services, including legal services, is increasing. this package does not solve all the problems of crossborder cooperation, but it does bring solutions where solutions are urgently needed. i am sure that this regulation will be widely applied. i come from the e-country of estonia, where we have had the opportunity to use e-services for over 30 years. and i can confirm from my experience that the digitization of services and processes is a vastly positive experience, and people are very happy to use them. digital services and digital operations are an integral part of our future. the sooner we figure it out, the better for our citizens. and to conclude, i would like to thank co-rapporteur emil radev, shadow rapporteurs, experts, the commission, the council which is not present today for their excellent cooperation. it was a privilege and it was an honor to cooperate with you. so today, i think we can be proud of this package that will benefit our citizens as well as our institutions. so, dear colleagues, i would like to urge you to vote for the package.
thank you very much, honorable director, good colleagues. firstly, i do not often agree with my colleague sophia in't velde, but i agree completely that it is a bit strange that this debate has not lasted very long, but commission president von der leyen does not find enough time to at least listen to the debate and the people's opinions before parliament, although i have great respect for the vice-president of the commission. secondly, i listened carefully to von der leyen's speech this morning, where he tried to convey in a very positive way that everything was going very well in ukraine, that they were fighting for freedom, for our security, and that everything was just as well as it should be. but it's not. while we know very well that the war is about to last for almost two years, we know that the americans are no longer providing enough weapons, we know that europe has provided too little and too late, and we know that the russians are not any weaker, but their economy is running in three shifts with the war economy. so all the talk at the same time by the european commission about how we are currently dealing with climate agreements, trying to solve our social problems, is pointless. it's pointless because i can predict the future for you: somewhere in three to five years, we'll have another war somewhere in europe, like moldova, and five to seven years in the baltic. because what europe is doing right now is too little, too late. and i know very well that the european parliament does not and will not have to have the power to send arms, but that power exists in european countries, like germany and france. and here's the biggest concern: europe hasn't been helping ukraine enough, and that's bringing us closer to a war that's getting bigger and bigger. and besides the chairman of the meeting, i would like to point out that if the epp representative could have exceeded 45 seconds of his speaking time, i've only been gone 20 seconds and the hammer is already being blown. i would therefore expect equal treatment for all political groups, not preferring the epp, but also our equal treatment. thank you. thank you.
madam president, colleagues, whether you call it taking out the peace dividend or, more correctly, chronic underinvestment in defence, the truth is that most, if not all, of our union’s member states have been doing it for far too long. russia’s war against ukraine has made that reality apparent for everyone. yes, in response to russia’s brutal aggression, the eu has demonstrated unity and resolve in providing lethal military assistance to ukraine. but those donations have also exposed serious gaps in our collective preparedness for large-scale military conflict, and have further underscored the fact that our existing stockpiles and production capabilities of defence equipment and ammunition are far from adequate. following the adoption of the recent short-term instruments edirpa and asap, the commission has promised to come forward with a long-term european defence investment plan. but after significant delays, one may start to doubt whether this will happen at all during the current mandate of parliament. edip, which would provide a strong regulatory framework, encourage joint research, production and procurement and create incentives for companies in both large and small member states, is long overdue. we need it, and we need it now.
