madam president, i would like to thank you. sweden has played an important and constructive role in its previous presidencies. swedish foreign policy is well known and respected. sweden has also always stood up for democracy, human rights and equality. the question now is, what will the new government's approach be? will it be different from the previous one? mr. prime minister, it is alarming that a government is dependent on the support of a far-right party. in the european parliament we hope that sweden will continue its line of strong commitment to the rule of law and democracy. there is no doubt that support for ukraine must continue. strong action is needed to stop climate change. the reform of the electricity market is also expected by citizens. but let us not forget the important work sweden needs to do for a social europe, gender equality and better working conditions for platform work. without a social europe, we have no europe at all.
mr president, the european investment bank has a key role and a good track record in achieving the union's objectives. today, it is accelerating investment in green transition, digitalisation, infrastructure projects, as well as research and innovation. in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic, the investment bank helped develop vaccines and eased the burden on smes. now the bank is showing its great value by supporting ukraine. the use of public funds always requires careful implementation and control. the european parliament has an important role to play in this monitoring. the european investment bank's practices deserve praise in many respects. i hope, however, that the pace of achieving these objectives will be raised. i hope that the bank will take increasingly ambitious steps to improve transparency and openness. i would like to stress the importance of taking measures to combat fraud and abuse. the more resources are allocated, the more stringent controls are required.
mr president, the conversion of knowledge into new products in europe is taking place far too slowly. however, the eib has done its job well. i think it is the eib's muscles that need to be strengthened. we would need it both for strategic investments and for improving our competitiveness. strengthening the eib would be a radically better alternative to responding to the challenges of the us ira as well than building the eu's own ira. strengthening the eib is also important for the fair internal market of the eu. they are currently in a state of more or less confusion. with the replacement of state aid rules by the crisis framework, some eu countries have been able to use public money - money normally prohibited - to support their businesses. as is well known, eur 700 billion has been requested for state aid exemptions, 80% of which goes to two countries, germany and france. i believe that a radically strengthened eib is the best possible alternative for the countries of the european union and their businesses of all sizes.
mr. speaker, how do we know that an election is coming? at least in finland, people know that when they start calling someone a racist because they have no choice. when you can't argue, you name names. terrorism in all its forms is condemnable. ideology is only a fog for its implementation. it may be carried on with the support of governments, in the name of religions, or in the name of many different ideologies. this is what we have seen in europe in bloody fashion for many decades. why is the european parliament never concerned about anarchist demonstrations or, say, violence against police, ambulances and firemen in berlin on new year's eve? does the commission have any idea of the big picture and that the far right is not the only extremist movement in europe that should be discussed? but we never discuss anything here except the far right. what is the commission's view of the threat posed by political islam? i don't know, because they never take a stand. anti-israel extremism on the far right is a big deal, and rightly so. but left-wing anti-semitism and hate speech are not a problem for the commission or parliament. (the speaker agreed to reply to the blue card speech)
reply to the blue card speech. thank you for the question. of course, we have extremist movements on both the far right and the far left, and we also have terrorist attacks in the name of religion. for example, in finland, a terrorist attack was carried out in the name of religion, and it was not by any extreme right-wing group. yes, we have a bigger problem with terrorism brought by antifa and the far left and terrorism in the name of religion than the far right, but yes, we also have far right terrorism.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, commissioner, 2022 was a record year at international level in terms of aml fines. financial institutions paid more than eur 5 billion in fines for breaching aml rules – an astonishing figure. it is clear aml rules need to become stricter, better enforced, and loopholes need to be closed. therefore, we have to look into the procedure to identify high-risk third countries. although the council has the right to ask for a postponement, the listing of these countries should be a no-brainer as it follows clearly the fatf assessment. however, to avoid any geopolitical pressure in future and to make the aml rules more effective, we need to reform this procedure, today more than ever. as co-rapporteur for the aml regulation, i therefore support an autonomous eu listing process as proposed by the commission and stand ready to work with the council to reform the process in order to ensure robust action.
mr president, russia has brutally attacked ukraine. it gives europe a reason to stop all energy imports from russia. this is where repowereu is playing a very important role. it will enable us to move to renewable energy sources - zero-emission energy sources - faster than we thought possible. in this respect, the safety of europeans, the climate and the environment are all working hand in hand and cooperating well. the new resources are important, as is the reallocation of old resources, in order to free europe from its energy dependence on russia. this is also support for the ukrainians. at the same time, it is important that we do this in a wise way. we are making sure that the new major achievement, transparency, is increased, that is, that the biggest contributors to the income are made public and that citizens can also see where their money is going. a supportive entity.
mr president, the eu's main objectives are certainly to reduce its dependence on russia in energy matters and to promote the use of renewable energy. the key to all this is to promote the use of renewable and sustainable bioenergy. however, this is not directly mentioned in this report, although almost all other equivalent renewable energy sources are mentioned. it also promises the eligibility of a non-biological raw material when used for the production of hydrogen. i would, however, interpret article 21c as including the eligibility of bioenergy, since the intention to promote and increase the use of renewable energy is expressed in that paragraph. i hope the commission will interpret this paragraph in the same way.
mr president, when the soviet union collapsed, the whole world would sigh with relief that communism was being done away with. but it's like the coronavirus, it takes on new forms. the presentation is a living example of that. half the world is now running around obsessed with a non-existent problem: climate religion. one indication is this chase of combustion-engine cars. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the facts will come out with the electric car craze. the electric car has higher emissions than the internal combustion engine when the whole life cycle is taken into account. much progress is still needed before combustion engines and oil can be abandoned, if ever. by the way, the latest diesel cars are almost zero-emission.
mr president, next week marks one year since russia launched its brutal and illegal war of aggression against ukraine, and peace is still not in sight. we talk a lot about weapons and military solutions, but very little about peace. peace must be just, and it is not easy to achieve, but peace must be our number one priority. ukraine has the right to defend itself and we have an obligation to help them succeed in doing so, because by supporting ukraine we are helping the country to protect its civilian population, which has been targeted by putin's attacks and potential war crimes. russia must stop its aggression and withdraw from the territories it occupies so that we can finally build peace. the longer the war continues, the deeper its scars, and they persist for generations. unfortunately, we finns know this from our own history and experience. ukraine needs our support in many ways. the war has caused widespread humanitarian distress, massive environmental destruction, and widespread destruction of civilian infrastructure. reconstruction must begin as soon as possible, and russia must contribute to the costs.
on behalf of the id team. mr president, in july 2022 it was revealed that the phone of nikos androulakis, mep for the centre-left pasok-kinal party, was being tapped. androulakis' phone was attempted to install a predator malware that could record his calls. this led to a huge scandal in greece. it was suspected that the greek prime minister mitsotakis had arranged the wiretap to avoid being in opposition in the next elections. it's good that these scandals are coming out, and they need to be talked about and they need to be dealt with. transparency is the cornerstone of democracy. multimedia is the cornerstone of democracy. if we don't have a diverse democracy, which means a diversity of values and which offers a diversity of opinions, we don't have a real democracy. free media and free speech, without which we have no other freedoms. unfortunately, in europe too, there has been a very unilateral trend towards the media. we must be ever vigilant in this matter, for no one owns the truth. time will tell who was right and who was wrong in the end, so protecting the diverse media must be the most important thing in this chamber. however, it is a misconception that strengthening the eu's central administration would somehow reduce corruption or increase transparency. on the contrary, i think so. let us remember, for example, the fact that when greece joined the euro and gave false information, economic information, the eu knew that greece was giving false information, but still went ahead, so that wisdom does not reside in the central government either. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration.
mr president, it is hard to believe that we are actually having to discuss in the european parliament the reality of democracy in one of our most important member states. the right to free expression and to secure communications without the state listening to us - big brother is watching - is an important part of our european values. now we have heard that in greece the intelligence services are listening to journalists and politicians - and of course to opposition politicians. this wiretapping has also affected members of a body which is important to us, namely this parliament. it's incredible. how can this be possible? how is that possible in a country that is important to all of us, greece? i'm sure in school they teach us all, and future generations, that the cradle of democracy is in greece. so, of course, the greeks and the greek government have a great responsibility in this matter to clarify matters and to put an end to this kind of restricting democracy, hindering the opposition and blocking the work of journalists. it is particularly significant that here too the centre-right epp group is denying this because it is the work of the epp-led government. the fact that the greek prime minister has himself transferred the intelligence service to his own authority also means that he is responsible for what happens there, just as every minister in each country is responsible for matters in his own field. parliament must be firm on this. we must support democratic principles in every member state.
mr president, wind turbines, solar panels, batteries and electrolysers are the foundation of the future energy system and they require different metals and minerals to produce. the world is not going to have metal forever, and its demand will grow in the energy crisis many times over. the nature of our planet will not survive this breakdown unless we also change our entire way of using natural resources to make them sustainable. minimising the environmental impact of energy depletion and ensuring social sustainability in europe and beyond. we need to clearly improve the recycling of minerals, set binding recycling standards, increase resource efficiency and make products easily recyclable. efficient recycling will minimise the use of virgin raw materials and increase the eu's ownership of raw materials. by requiring more recycled materials in different sectors, we are also creating competitiveness for the green transition of industry. the eu countries' potential for success lies in, for example, green carbon-neutral recycled dust. we're gonna get by on the high end of this. it is essential that we also ensure the social and environmental sustainability of mining, both within and outside the eu. we cannot afford to compromise on the existing environmental rules and we must be prepared carefully for the environmental risks of mining. mining is not suitable for all areas because of its environmental impact. at the same time, we must respect the rights of indigenous peoples, that is, we must ensure that solutions to the climate crisis are sustainable for nature and for people.
the commission's proposal is a further step in the right direction. the requirement to be zero emission by 2028 for new buildings is more understandable, as is the requirement for the entire building stock to be climate neutral by 2050, but for existing residential buildings the energy efficiency class requirements by 2030 and 2033 are unreasonable. if the standardisation were to be considered in terms of the average building stock rather than per property, the presentation would be more acceptable. in countries where the transition to zero-emission energy for heating is faster, such as finland, which is to be fully zero-emission for heating by 2030, the performance is particularly poor. in the form proposed, the directive would force, for example, almost two million finnish homes to be renovated in eight years. i'm afraid the motion cannot be accepted in this form.
rapporteur. – madam president, the way we use our land and soils must change. instead of contributing to climate change, it can and must be turned into being sustainable both for climate and nature. we must put an end to practices which are damaging for biodiversity and jeopardise the capacity of forests and soils to absorb carbon. this is the future for the economy as well. there is a growing demand for regenerative farming and forestry and also in nature restoration in protecting our biodiversity. it can also contribute to added climate benefits. this is what the lulucf regulation is about. at the outset of the trilogue negotiations, both the european parliament and the council supported the objective of reaching -310 million tonnes of net removals by 2030, as proposed by the commission, and maintained the idea of national targets. this will allow the eu to reach around -57% of net emission reductions by 2030 economy wide. for the first time, the principle that member states should increase their sinks has been endorsed by the co—legislators with a binding 2030 target for each member state. this is a historic achievement. the new 2030 target of -310 million tonnes of net removals by 2030 within the eu for the lulucf sector will apply to member states to reverse the current shrink of natural land sinks we have seen in the last decade. this is ultimately necessary if we are to achieve carbon neutrality, a balance between emissions and removals by 2050 at the latest within the union, and also beyond that to carbon negativity. still, the trilogues were not easy. the council wanted to increase even further flexibilities given to member states for achieving their targets, thus reducing the integrity of the proposal. as part of the deal to get their 2030 target, member states will be allowed to deviate from a linear trajectory as long as all the deficits produced in the 2026—2029 period are compensated by equivalent surpluses within the same period. this can be seen as acceptable. we also, from the parliament side, managed to negotiate that member states that would deviate from that trajectory will have to adopt corrective action plans similar to what has been agreed in the final effort sharing trilogue that took place a few days before the final lulucf trilogue. what’s more, any excess deficit about the budget will be multiplied by a factor of 1.08 and added to the member state 2030 target. this increase is the importance of monitoring and scrutinising that there is a proper carbon sink policy in place, but also gives the commission possibilities to implement this policy. member states will have also access to other flexibilities, including the possibility to use emission allocations they may have in excess in effort sharing or excess lulucf credits generated and sold by other member states. an additional flexibility of 178 million tonnes for eu 27 over the entire period is available, in particular to compensate emissions generated by natural disturbances, the longer-term impact of climate change and the result of exceptionally high proportion of organic soils. the council proposal to be able to fully discount extreme weather events, however, was rejected. for the first time, member states will also have to report on how they took into account the ‘no significant harm principle’ in meeting the lulucf targets. they also need to improve the data they use to report their lulucf net removals. this means that there will be a larger integration of biodiversity policies and climate policies, which is really good. we also start to assess what kind of policies member states put in place to manage their things properly for the first time. so therefore, overall, the parliament’s negotiating team worked well-defined compromises. i thank them all. i also thank the commission for their contribution and even the council. therefore, i ask for your endorsement of the negotiated deal from you, my esteemed colleagues.
mr president, the reformed ets has the most important role to play on the road to 55%, but it is also important that the cargo-sharing sector manages to meet the 40% commitment it has been given. the burden of mitigation is distributed very differently across countries. five countries have a 50% reduction obligation, the smallest of which have a 10% and 12.7% reduction obligation. but you can still accept this. the countries are different and the situation is different, but the commission's refusal to put new barriers to the use of sustainable bio-based energy will make it much easier to accept. it's a very important matter. however, at present, most renewable energy is generated by wind power. i think it is important in the future to ensure that the conditions are created for the continued production and construction of wind power, but that wind power no longer needs public support. i think the eu should if it can afford to support wind power in principle use the aid for innovation in the sector, not for wind power production or for the construction of transmission lines.
on behalf of the left. mr president, today we are again discussing these key elements of the fit for 55 package, which aims to secure net emission reductions of at least 55% by 2030 and thus keep the paris pathway open for us. we are calling ourselves the global climate leader in the speeches, and one might conclude that we are already clearly on the path to paris, but unfortunately this is not yet the case. we have a lot of work ahead of us, but this week we hope to take another step forward. the freight sharing sector accounts for 60% of total eu emissions and is an important tool for achieving reductions in national activities. it must be preserved as a whole in the future. the burden-sharing sector should not be extended to the emissions trading sector, as the ets is the most effective way of accelerating the transition of businesses and production, but the burden-sharing sector allows member states to ensure that the green transition is also socially sustainable, by choosing the means that are most appropriate for them to achieve the objectives agreed together. overall, it looks like, for fit for 55, we're going to get over 55 percent of the emissions reduction targets, which is good news, but carbon neutrality is a balance, which means it's completely dependent on us also sequestering carbon and sequestering enough of it. and this is the forest carbon cycle in the center. it is incredible, however, that instead of protecting the natural absorption of forests by ensuring that wood is used sensibly for products with high added value carbon that bind for a long time, we are burning wood for energy. this misuse of the carbon soul of the forests is not only possible, it is specifically supported. no matter which political group you belong to, you cannot find a more stupid use for forests - from a climate or an economic point of view. and because we have to be honest, we're never going to get all the emissions out of our lives, so we have to have a swallow that covers those necessary emissions. lulucf regulation should ensure stronger absorption and ensure that emission reductions are obtained from all land use areas. this is not the end of the road, but it is a significant step forward. and it is significant that the report obliges the commission to present a more detailed proposal on how to bring all aspects of land use under the ambit of emission reductions. this is absolutely essential if we are to succeed in our objectives. if we want to achieve the paris path and the carbon neutrality target, the goal of being carbon neutral by 2050 at the latest, which we have set ourselves as a binding target in the climate law, we must be able to set the same standards for agriculture and forestry as we have set for all other sectors. it's necessary to achieve our goal. i would like to thank jessica polfjärd for the excellent cooperation we had with the esf and appreciate your inclusive approach to work with the rest of us. and thank you, ville, for a very good job with lulucf! i would have been prepared to go beyond the majority's wishes on all three of these proposals, but i am happy to support all three of them.
mr president, when wood is cut down and either burned or used for something, a new tree that captures emissions will grow in its place. young forests are more efficient at sequestering carbon than old forests. as long as the forest grows more than it is cut down, there should be no problem. this is the situation in finland. finland has more forests than ever before. finland is already a coal country. in times of economic and geopolitical uncertainty, the target of 310 million tonnes of co2 equivalent is too narrow. 225 would have been better. if we do not have sufficient export earnings, we will not be able to take care of nature, much less of people.
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you for the debate and the positive, constructive spirit. i obviously also want to answer to the question stated by one mep about is this enough. obviously, we all know when it comes to climate ambition and keeping the global warming to 1.5 degrees, or even close to that, we as europe also need to do more. so when it comes to the land—use sector, my view is that this is the starting point. we are now starting for the first time to have a proper increase of carbon—sink policy, and this is the basis where we will build on post 2030 to continue increasing our carbon sinks. when it comes to member states’ contributions, there were some who were saying that some member states need to do more, some less, and this is unfair. well, everybody needs to contribute more in comparison to the inventory years. i think it is important also for the commission and as a parliament to send a signal that those countries to actually start to think about land use in a different way. how can we increase sustainability in a way that is good for economics as well, that creates jobs, that will be more productive for agriculture, for forestry, and takes more into consideration to biodiversity as well? they will also be better off in the future. so if they postpone having a proper carbon—sink policy, my view is that some member states still don’t have one. they just report what has happened. the commission needs to intervene. you have the tools in this regulation to intervene and help member states to realise that tapping into regenerative farming and forestry is a possibility for the member states, for the economics, but also a necessity for the climate. finally, also the compromise includes the review for the commission to go through in late 2024 what to do beyond this. there is very clear language also that all land—use sectors need to contribute. so we need to also see how agriculture will be better climate wise, how we can support carbon farming and also public policies, not just private companies’ contributions. when it comes to forestry, we need to look at better management methods, cascading principal, higher added value for products, so getting more economic wellbeing out of less amount of resources. so the harvesting amounts we do have today are a problem, and we need to also solve that, not just going for the bulk industry when it comes to forestry, but have more higher end products with lesser impact for negative impact for climate and biodiversity. that is to say, for the economics of this sector as well, as well as all the other sectors – they are not going to succeed, but are trying to hang on to bad practices.
mr president, equal pay for equal work, regardless of gender. it's obvious, right? but it still won't happen. the gender pay gap across the eu remains significant and has remained unchanged for years. this proposal on pay transparency is therefore, despite its shortcomings, a significant step forward. thanks to parliament, the directive now obliges a much larger number of employers to pay transparency than the commission proposal, and i am particularly pleased to note that we are mentioning intersectional discrimination for the first time. this whole-person perspective is essential to get to the root of the problem, because equal pay requires action beyond this directive. women still bear the greatest responsibility for caring for children and for household chores. fathers continue to take a much smaller share of parental leave. furthermore, the different sectors are strongly sexed. that's why we have to give up the useless and harmful sexuality, because there are no hobbies for girls and boys, there are no jobs for men and women. there are hobbies and there are jobs, and for the same job, you have to pay the same wage, regardless of gender.
mr president, these principles of the rule of law are at war with themselves. so, in the long run, such an empire will not survive, fighting against itself, and the media, or journalists, are the biggest supporters. freedom of speech is talked about here, but by abusing freedom of speech, journalists support, for example, the government that is currently sitting in finland. normally the media is on the side of the opposition and takes a critical stance on the government's actions. now the media is all over it, and there's no critical tone to be found. and if anyone does, they're either a nazi or a racist and they're sentenced to the lowest hell.
mr president, this regulation is a good example of how good intentions and good aims can be ruined by writing a regulation in a way that can lead to the interpretations that have been expressed here. it is understood that, for example, if a farmer builds a raft, the timber that falls under that raft would be something that would not meet the requirements of this bill. i think it is high time that the commission representative here gave his own interpretation of whether this is really the case, as many countries have interpreted this and many members of parliament have interpreted it here. otherwise, i'd say that forest fires cause 1.7 billion tons of co2 a year. that's a lot of money. that's over five percent of all the emissions in the world.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal. mr president, the new ets is the eu's most important instrument for reducing emissions and for climate action in general. i am the negotiator for the committee on industry, so i have a few remarks to make in this context. the reform will double the current rate of reduction of emissions from the ets, i.e. 62%, between 2005 and 2030. it rewards clean solutions. it sends a clear message to industry and the energy sector: it is not worth investing in old, emission-intensive technology. the introduction of a cbam carbon cap tax on imports of steel, aluminium, cement, fertilisers and electricity is a justified measure. the consequence is that the free allocation of emissions from these sectors will disappear in the internal market at the same rate as the rise in cbam. that's all right, too. itre and subsequently the parliament expressed their concern about the export of cbam sectors, i.e. the need to allocate exports to third countries in those cbam sectors. the trilogue takes account of the needs of the cbam sectors, but not well and strongly enough in my view. i therefore believe that the risk of carbon leakage must be addressed before the law enters into force and during its implementation.
on behalf of the left. mr president, the green deal has done what it was supposed to do. this huge tanker called the eu is slowly starting to turn its course towards a climate-resilient europe. but there is still a long way to go and a lot of work to do to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, as we have set ourselves as a binding target in the climate change agreement. but if we are to reach that 2030 emission reduction target, if it is to be possible, fixing and expanding the emissions trading system is a key tool. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to reduce emissions from the transport sector. and this is where reform is taking us. emissions trading is the single most effective tool for achieving emission reductions and therefore its expansion is essential from an emissions reduction perspective. but at the same time, it is fair to say that the extension of the emissions trading scheme to real estate and transport challenges us in terms of social justice. in a situation where the cost of living has risen significantly, it is essential to ensure that vulnerable households also keep up with the transition. it is therefore regrettable that the social climate fund, as a result of the council's unconditional request, has been considerably reduced to the level that parliament and the commission wanted. it is now entirely the responsibility of the member states to ensure that all its citizens are well. it is as necessary as the reductions in emissions that are sought in the context of enlargement. the power of emissions trading lies in its ability to accelerate the development and deployment of new, cleaner alternatives, thereby creating new jobs and sustainable economic growth. but even though we have made a big change with the green deal and even though parliament has been able to improve the commission's proposals across the board, we have to be honest. our target level is still below scientific advice. that is an unfortunate fact, and this initial problem is repeated throughout the green deal. it is very likely that the next european parliament will have to adjust its course and raise its targets in order to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear commissioner, with the fit for 55 package, energy and climate files are mainly agreed. we are now moving very fast into a renewables-based energy system, and renewables are the main tool to achieve the climate ambition. currently, energy use accounts for 75% of our greenhouse gas emissions and for these emissions to be reduced in a cost efficient way, we also need different flexibility tools, such as demand-side response, supply-side flexibility, interconnections and obviously, as a key component, storage. therefore, the communication is very important in this regard. we will need more storage to have a cost-efficient, climate-smart and integrated energy system that helps europe to move into a sustainable energy system. i am happy to see that many elements from our own initiative report, led by renew’s claudia gamon, that the parliament voted on in july 2020, are included in the communication, namely the need for different types of storage with different time frames. one evolving example is the storage within district heating, which makes it possible also for district heating to be a part of an integrated, effective flexibility mechanism; the important role of individuals and collectives, including also the role of electric vehicles as potential decentralised storage assets, so we have more and more prosumers also within the context of storage; the requirement to consider storage when planning new grid infrastructures as new infrastructure might not be needed or to a different extent when adequate storage is available. in general, the greens support the commission’s recommendation on energy storage. however, the main points of this text must be anchored in the market design legislation and they should not only be non-binding recommendations. in the renewable energy directive, the permitting aspects related to storage assets were accelerated, so developing storage can be a lot faster than we have foreseen in so far. the parliament wanted an obligation for member states to set up demand-side response and storage targets. however, during the trilogue phase, the main argument to not include these targets was that the red was not the right place to do this, while the market design reform would be. therefore, now we urge to introduce binding targets to allow for a cost-efficient transition into the electricity market design negotiations. in the same vein, an obligation to consider the potential of storage and demand response in any capacity generation mechanism is key for cost-efficiency and climate-smart solutions. to conclude, i hope to see many of the elements of the communication introduced into actual legislation.
mr president, energy consumption is increasingly becoming electricity consumption. at the same time, fortunately, europe is increasingly generating renewable electricity from wind and solar. these forms of production are very volatile: there are times when there is a lot, there are times when there is much less. in this situation, we need to develop electricity storage, the technologies that can develop it. and these technologies are needed for a variety of storage needs. they are needed for short-term storage: batteries are a good example of this. a little bit longer-term, for industrial needs and also for the electrical system. the various chemical solutions and storage systems are a fine system. and a third type is needed for long-term storage, where electricity is converted into another form of energy that can then be stored almost indefinitely. examples of these are these synthetic fuels, electric fuels, x-to-power technologies and the like. what's my message here? it is important that, whereas public eu support has so far been very heavily focused on battery storage, on short-term storage, these eu funding schemes also support these medium and long-term storage schemes. i hope the commission will take this request seriously.
on behalf of the left. mr president, the beginning of all wisdom is the recognition of facts. once again, we have before us a new ipcc report, and its message is still the same: our actions are inadequate. with the current actions, we're heading towards three degrees of warming. the window to achieving a viable and sustainable future for all is closing. the effects of global warming are already being felt. you can watch the evening news. next summer we in europe are going to have dangerous heat waves, droughts and forest fires again. the risks of warming effects are increasing sharply in the near future. in the eu, we have done a lot. the green deal as a whole has put us on a new course towards a climate-resilient future, but our goals are still under scientific advice. but we still have a chance, we have a chance to limit warming to a level that is humanly and economically sustainable, because we know what we have to do. we have the means and the know-how to do it. the only thing we lack is political will, and it can be fixed in a moment because it is in our heads.
mr president, mr president, mr president, mr president, mr president, mr president, mr president, mr president, mr president, mr president, mr president, mr president, mr president, mr president, mr president, mr president, this is a very serious matter. mr president, mr president, mr president, mr president, this is a very serious matter. the burden of the war is also being borne by ukraine's neighbours, and they too must be helped. but the effects of the war are also felt in russia's neighbors and in their border states. finland and russia share a border of 1,344 kilometres. before the border closure, many of our border communities had a lot of cooperation with russian regions. now, of course, all this is over. the economic losses in these areas are high and interreg programmes are not currently being implemented in these areas. when brexit happened, the eu allocated a total of €5 billion to the regions that were most affected by the uk's departure from the european union. should not the commission now support these sparsely populated and northern regions, which have suffered immense hardship as a result of the russian war, in its crisis response?
mr president, we have lived through exceptional times, and therefore the fiscal rules have not had to be followed. the freedoms have been used, the debt has been paid, and the risks have increased. if the camel's back is broken in one country, there's no one left to pay. so there's a real sense of urgency in reforming the rules. the commission now considers that the criteria can be relaxed. this is reflected in the flexibility offered by many of the criteria, namely the 3% and 60% rules. the commission proposal is based strongly on medium-term structural reforms, sustainable investment and flexibility. the extension of the adjustment cycle that would be implemented in this commission proposal does not necessarily guarantee debt sustainability in the longer term and for that reason i think this proposal is a little lax.
mr president, 42.5% is not something to be proud of. the commission is offering us finns 60%. at the same time, it offers some other countries 20 to 30 percent. the same applies to reducing emissions. we're offered a 50 percent reduction in emissions, some of the others 20 to 30 percent. commissioner, this is not how it was supposed to go. at the same time, we have the greatest responsibility in terms of restoration, and so do the gorges. the magic of funding the climate-social fund, we have greater responsibilities there too. commissioner, this is not going well. well, we're gonna get through this, there's no question of that, but this is not going to work. in addition, this red iii further strengthens the use of primary wood for energy production. no one in our community burns wood when it's sold for a much higher price. there's a little misconception about this. mr president, commissioner, i would hope that when we set the targets we set them ambitiously and, secondly, with a little more balance between the different countries and regions.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, commissioner, thank you to the commission for this annual overview. i think this report highlights very well how we have tackled the worst of the energy crisis and managed to cut off a large share of imports from russia and fossil fuels. but even if we acknowledge that, it is very clear that we need to do even more in the near future. some member states have replaced their dependency on russian fossil fuels with other fossil fuels, and we need to look at long-term solutions in order to achieve our goals in renewable energy by 2030. if we are looking at the increase to 42.5% of the eu energy mix by 2030, that will require a much faster growth that in the coming years than we’ve had in the past. even more so for the aspirational, more ambitious target of 45%. so, my question is, what does the commission do to make sure that all the member states are on board in this, and also including energy efficiency, which is key to reducing dependency on fossil fuels and gas, especially in heating and cooling. in heating and cooling and transport the progress has been more modest, so it is important that all sectors are included, not just the electricity sector, which is doing strongly. we expect more from the commission also in reducing fossil fuel subsidies and making sure all sectors are included.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, really, it’s worrisome news what we have heard from the finnish-russian border. russia’s actions at the border with finland are completely unacceptable and are against international agreements. the finnish-russian border is really a long border – over 1 300 km – and it’s also an eu external border. therefore, russia is attempting to pressure not just one or two member states, but the whole european union, and to undermine also our security. the actions are an attempt of hybrid warfare against the european union. it’s important that the parliament will discuss the situation. therefore, our group proposes to debate the issue under the heading ‘council and commission statements – recent developments at the eu’s external border between finland and russia, and the need to uphold eu law’. i hope this is a title which everybody can accept and vote in favour. we must be decisive and send a clear message to russia that we will not tolerate this kind of actions.
for the left. mr president, at the dubai climate summit we are doing a global inventory of actions and their impact for the first time to see if we have the right ambition. this global stock take will tell us where we are going, and this honest picture of the situation will serve as the basis for the decisions of the meeting. it is fair to say that with the current decision we are going far beyond the safe heating limit. the funding is one of the most important issues of the meeting and the loss and damage fund decided at the previous summit must be concretised and put into operation. it is also necessary to reform the international financial system to meet the needs of the green transition in line with the bridgetown agenda. global climate finance for the south is a problem to solve, but the un climate work itself also requires reform. now many countries in the global south have practical difficulties attending the meeting, but the number of fossil fuel bombs and oil bombs is increasing every year. it is unsustainable that these companies, which continue to make profits from the heating industry and thus increase the bill for all of us, will be adversely affected at these meetings. the position of the ceo of the oil company is not the chairman of the climate summit no indeed when our greatest challenges are deciding on fossil subsides and ending fossils. at a time when we're living in the hottest year in the history of measurement, over the past year, over a trillion dollars have been invested in fossils. this is not a point! we'll stop funding the destruction, and then we'll have enough money to do climate action. climate decisions should be made based on scientific advice, and this should be a strong message for the eu to negotiate.
mr president, the eu has broad climate targets, but we are not currently promoting the green transition in technology and production as we should. the commission has granted derogations from state aid in the amount of eur 1000 million since 2020. a large part of this aid has been poison for the fair internal market. they have been targeted in many areas other than net zero projects. now, this net lending is defining sectors and strategic projects and their criteria, and we are now on the right track to progress. i am pleased that we have managed to increase the scope of biotechnology production in the committee. i believe that products developed from wood raw materials can replace a large number of non-renewable raw materials in the future. the commission has also decided to extend the financial support to the member states. however, new funds are not needed to take up the green transition to technology. we currently have hundreds of billions of euros of unallocated, unused funds in different eu support instruments. i hope that these are now actively used to move net zero projects forward.
for the s&d group. mr president, russia continues its reckless actions and the pressure on its neighbors. now it's finland, which is the largest eu country, over 1,300 kilometres, from russia. the eu is lacking in unity and determination. russia carries asylum seekers and migrants to the border between finland and russia. the russian security service fsb is active in attracting people to russia. according to the finnish authorities, this is a clear hybrid operation. the operation is an attempt to punish finland for supporting ukraine. russia is trying to undermine the security of finland and other eu countries, create division and discord within europe and within our country, and use humanity's problems in a ruthless way. finland is fully committed to the rule of law. border security is a matter of professionalism and respect for finland's international commitments. the european union's legislation, our principles and our mutual solidarity provide the means to overcome the russian persecution. finland and the other eu member states need the full support of the union and the parliament. frontex must be ready to help. the commission is expected to make proposals for new sanctions. the eu must also be prepared to support the regions and communities of eastern finland and other border areas financially.
for the left. mr president, there are clear indications that russia is carrying out a hybrid attack on finland by facilitating the entry of people to the finnish-russian border. it is clear that finland must respond to this influence attempt, and this has been done by closing a large number of border crossing points. russia is trying to act to quell panic and fear and thus undermine the sense of national security and thus make us stumble on human rights and international conventions. we must not be inclined to do this, because the right to seek asylum is a human right that exists even if the person's cross-border income is influenced by the state. the instrumentalisation of people does not mean that there could be no real need for protection for those who cross the border. we are best opposed to such a hybrid weapon by a common human rights-based immigration policy, legal and safe routes to europe and an atmosphere where immigrants are not considered a threat in principle. authoritarian leaders, even within the eu, challenge our shared values. if we give up our values and principles under pressure, they've won.
i am pleased that finland is strongly supporting its actions on the eastern border. as the former minister of the interior of finland responsible for the finnish borders, i have strong confidence that the finnish government and parliament will continue to deal with this matter properly and responsibly. the eastern border of finland is also the eastern border of the eu with respect to russia. i therefore hope that parliament will also understand that the inhabitants and the vital nature of the anti-russian border areas are an important part of the common european border security. before the war, the maximum number of border crossings was over 13 million a year. their end understandable end has been a major blow to those border towns. i hope that the visits of the president of the committee on regional policy, omarje, and commissioner ferreira, will convince parliament and the commission that they need strong eu regional support and that the border areas in general must be a common area of common regional policy. the war cannot be the reason for the reduction of regional aid in some area, as has now happened on that eastern border. rather, war is the reason and justification for the need for more support to secure that life force and housing.
mr president, these human rights treaties are for people who do not respect anyone's human rights. russia does not care about any agreement, as this activity on the finnish border shows. twelve times in finland's known history, russia has attacked finns. so nothing has changed and nothing will change. the threat is eternal. the dictatorship is forever in that country, only the kettle changes every now and then. a brainwashed people cannot bring down their tsars in this country. russia respects only power, so it must respond to it on the same scale. the blue-eyed age is over. we must end our cooperation with russia completely.
mr president, if you were to have rocket fire in your home every day, year after year, would you take countermeasures? i'm sure you'd do it or you'd turn your home over to the enemy. throwing the jews into the sea is a common saying. can we even negotiate on that basis? the hamas constitution says every jew must be removed from the land. on this basis, it is useless to wait for peace with these people. the population of gaza has been unambiguously targeted by hamas terrorists. and now the european union and finland have funded the so-called refugees in gaza, but the money has gone to hamas terrorists, who have built caves with them for hospitals and civilians... (speaker interrupted)
madam president, this is an important debate. nobody likes burden. on the other side, calling legal obligations to protect people or the environment a burden is more of an ideological statement. i fully understand some legal requirements are demanding, in particular for smes. and yes, we need to be more proportionate and ensure member states can adjust more to national circumstances. at the same time, we absolutely need rules to protect consumers and workers, to protect the environment, to protect our health. an example: almost month after month, we face a natural disaster. only 25% of natural catastrophe losses were insured. that’s the reason that insurance companies need to be better prepared to protect us, to protect the future of our children. these rules are not a burden. they are just common sense.
mr president, i’m really delighted that it seems that this parliament really holds the rule of law in high regard, and i hope that all of us are ready to do it in every circumstances and in every situation. from history, we know that the rule of law also means the possibility of reconciliation for forgiveness and pardon. here, i think of nelson mandela and his way of fostering national reconciliation, and i’m just wondering if there is someone in this house who would say that nelson mandela didn’t have the right to give pardon. in my own country, finland, after a very bloody civil war, those guilty of rebellion were pardoned, so i totally understand that national reconciliation is sought in spain, and an amnesty law for those related to the catalan independence process movement is being prepared to achieve this aim. pursuing national reconciliation and granting amnesty is fully in line with the rule of law, as my colleague rené repasi just said. we ought to respect the efforts of spanish people and prime minister sanchez for reconciliation in spain. that’s my message today.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, danske bank, deutsche bank, credit suisse and now the latest one, the cyprus confidential files. the list of money laundering scandals in the eu seems to be endless. criminals, oligarchs and the super-rich continue to get help of our financial system and intermediaries to launder their money. and the fact is that especially russian money is also a security threat to us. this has to stop for good. and this is not a question of cyprus, it is a question of whole financial system. that is why s&d takes the lead in pushing for an ambitious and effective aml package. this package ought to close its regulatory loopholes despite any kind of resistance. i have great confidence in the spanish presidency. let’s work together to create a better world for honest entrepreneurs and citizens. let’s close the loopholes. let’s set up stringent rules around beneficial ownership to ensure we identify the real criminals behind the opaque corporate structures. let’s come forward with strict and effective rules around targeted financial sanctions against the oligarchs. let’s close the loopholes in the crypto sector to ensure it will not be used anymore to finance terrorism. strict and effective aml rules will make europe more fair and safe. that is what our voters expect from us.
madam president, the imprisonment of democratically elected president mohamed bazoum is a blatant violation of all laws. his continued detention is not only personally inhumane, but also blocks dialogue towards a desperately needed resolution to the crisis. since the military coup, the security and humanitarian situation in niger has further deteriorated. over 4 million people are now in dire need of aid. i have the honour to know muhamad bazoum personally, and i know that he is fully committed to serving his people according to the democratic principles. he must be immediately and unconditionally released. the european union must be ready for real actions, and also sanctions must be on the table. at the same time, we must continue our humanitarian support to those in need. we must support an african solution to a problem in africa. this means backing the political and diplomatic efforts made by ecowas and other african actors for a return to constitutional order, with bazoum as president.
mr president, the european union is opening up a long-term mining project with this bill. by defining the position of the strategic project for the mining project, the commission can in practice guide the member state towards the dismantling of environmental and nature protection objectives and areas. this is the wrong direction. we cannot achieve a green transition at the expense of nature and environmental objectives in a situation where, according to the national natural panel, 70% of the original nature has already been destroyed in a country like finland. this is a kind of neo-colonialism in the air, if the germans and the french are telling the finns and the swedes that your nature can be destroyed in the name of mines because we need raw materials. the issue of the rights of the indigenous sami people is particularly sensitive. that is why the finnish greens are critical of this proposal, even though parliament has improved it, and we will vote against it. (the speaker agreed to answer the question on the blue card.)
the answer ('blue card'). of course, as former minister for the environment, i know that we must balance so that we can also open new mines in finland and sweden. but it must be done in cooperation with the strictest environmental requirements and we cannot ignore environmental protection issues or the rights of the sami people. it is much better now to make sure that we focus on resource reuse and better circulation of raw materials rather than creating even more environmental problems in our nature. i know how much the mines have also created these problems before legislation, so now it would be even worse.
for the left. mr president, every child is equal in dignity and the rights of every child must be fulfilled equally, regardless of where he came from, how he was born or in what family he lives. this is part of the child's rights. in the present situation, rainbow families are placed at a disadvantage from other families because they cannot be sure that their parenting will be recognized in the new home country as they have come from. the free movement of people is enshrined in the eu treaties, but in the current circumstances, rainbow families cannot move freely from one member state to another without fear of losing legal parentage. some two million children in the eu are at risk of losing their parents' legal relationship because the laws applicable to families vary from one member state to another. the council is now in charge of protecting the rights of these families. the council must therefore urgently adopt the commission's proposal and correct this terrible injustice against children and families of rainbow trout in our union.
i'm here for the ecr team. mr president, the agreement reached in dubai seems like a rushed forced entry into which oil producing countries are hardly really committed. why would they cut their own branches, especially those countries whose lives depend entirely on oil? the schedule for the discontinuation of the fossil also appears to be a waterline. oil and gas will be needed for a long time to come, because technological progress simply makes no difference. 80,000 people have fled to dubai. it's a really, really useless meeting because there's no such thing as a climate emergency. it's just the endless cycle of nature with its cold and hot seasons.
for the left. mr president, the dubai meeting was both a success and a disappointment. finally, we got a record of the fossil being completely disposed of. the record is both historical and completely inadequate. this is a picture of the reality of climate action in general. we are constantly taking significant steps towards a carbon neutral world, but the understanding of how urgent we are has not yet reached all decision-makers. last year was the warmest year in the history of measurements, and yet, in the light of the decisions we are making today, we are still moving fairly well beyond the safe limit of warming. the very thing that is particularly pleasing about the end of dubai is that the loss and damage fund has been decided. the fund is designed to help developing countries that are worst affected by climate change. the financing promised is still far from necessary, but the establishment of the fund is part of the historical responsibility of the industrialized countries that have historically been the most responsible for emissions. it is also exciting to triple the capacity of renewable energy sources and to double energy efficiency by 2030. however, every agreement is only as good as its execution. we still have two gaps: a gap between the objectives of the paris agreement and the commitments made by the countries on climate change and a gap between the commitments made by the countries and the actual actions taken by them. now we have to understand that the time for party cards is over. it's time to act.
the honourable member, if you expected the dubai climate summit to resolve the climate crisis, you were deeply disappointed. if you were to expect even small flashlights that we could do enough climate action, you could see them too. the first recorded human transition away from fossil fuels was a meeting dominated by the fossil lobbies, and even hosted by them. if you look at the resolution, there are strong goals for what should be done, and the pandemic climate crisis is real. we want to listen to science, too. but what's missing is commitment to action. the real new commitments did not come from dubai, and the european union has an important role to play in this. we must ensure that the registration of the fossil record of the zeru is carried out. we have to prove it ourselves. we must ensure that the tripling of renewable energy is achieved and that energy efficiency doubles. by setting an example, we can engage others and change the market, so that everyone can see the message that fossil fuels are no longer being invested and are being cut down around the world.
