madam president, as you have mentioned, five debates have dealt with the same subject. my group, rather than adding a sixth debate, proposes the synthesis with a title that could be: 'new developments in allegations of corruption and foreign interference, including those in morocco, and the need to increase transparency, integrity and accountability in the european institutions'. i think it is a good synthesis of the five debates, which could bring us together, to avoid having a set of debates that overlap each other.
madam president, there was a fairly simple way of agreeing on a subject to put on the agenda of our plenary session, and that was to agree on it in the conference of presidents. i want to say to all the members present in this chamber that last thursday there was a conference of presidents at which our left group proposed a debate and proposed that we agree on this debate, on the new developments in this corruption scandal, which we have known since qatar was only the tip of the iceberg and morocco played a key role in it. it is likely that this system of corruption was used to the benefit of other states outside the european union. i regret that only the socialist and green groups supported this request, and that the renew group, which comes to the rescue, did not support this request, which would have allowed this plenary session to start with a clear debate on the agenda. because how can we have any credibility with the whole world by starting this plenary session without talking about the main subject and the subject of our concern, which is this corruption scandal at the heart of the european institutions? this is proof that transparency is the solution, not opacity in discussions, especially in the conference of presidents.
madam president, we are of course in favour of a general debate on the 'qatargate' case. our proposal is special and different from the others because we are calling for the immediate creation of a special committee of inquiry. it is therefore objected that this immediate committee of inquiry is not possible while the judicial case is pending. i can prove otherwise because this assembly appointed special committees while there were ongoing court cases. for example, in the panama papers case and in the pegasus case, in 2016 and in 2022, there were special committees created while the court cases were ongoing. we believe that a special committee of inquiry is absolutely necessary and that it would be totally incomprehensible not to set up one, when this case is shaking parliament as it should be, since it is a major scandal. so we also want to see this question of the immediate setting up of a committee of inquiry included in the debate.
madam president, yesterday in dnipro, russia committed a war crime and an act of terrorism. in the face of this horror and the determination of the ukrainian people to fight for their freedom, the european parliament, as you know, has always been the driving force behind the mobilization in europe on the humanitarian, financial and military aspects of ukraine. my group, renew europe, is even more in favour of european coordinated action on this ukrainian issue: more sanctions against thousands of russians who are still associated with the putin regime and who are not yet on the lists, more weapons for ukraine, especially tanks, in view of the news and the announcements that have been made by a number of member states. that is why my group is asking for the debate you have just summed up, madam president, to be added to the agenda: the european union's response to the appalling attack on civilians in dnipro: tougher sanctions against the putin regime and military support for ukraine. thank you for the support from the other groups.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, today you want to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the single market? yes, maastricht has a balance sheet, you have a balance sheet. thirty years after maastricht, what has become of european enterprises? thirty years of relocations to asia or eastern europe, thirty years of subsidies to our competitors in europe, the famous spanish tgvs, the headquarters of renault and airbus in the netherlands, thirty years of cheap labour imports, thirty years of the destruction of our champions alstom, nokia, ariane and pechiney. your recipes are out of date. the unfair tax competition from ireland and the netherlands is you. green puritanism, you too, with the punishment of taxes, the closing of our nuclear power, the increase in energy prices to kill our industry. with you, france will remain a digital dwarf and an industrial jurassic park, a country without factories and with unbalanced people on the loose. emmanuel macron will have to turn off the light when he leaves. thirty years ago, i was 20 years old and i even believed in this europe. we had medicine, satellite launchers, power plants that worked, heating in schools, cheap gasoline. now you have to wait a year to get your car, and we lived through a time when you were even more certain to find oil or mustard in the supermarket. in 1993, france had a trade surplus of about €13 billion. in 2022, its trade deficit is €160 billion. it's time to act. our continent cannot be absent from the fight for the digital future, nor suffer from culprits such as the production of medicines or electronic chips. in the last four years, europe's technological sovereignty has been further eroded. look at singapore, even look at us president joe biden, who is 80 years old and can no longer walk: he himself understood that the united states had to come first, with the anti-inflation plan.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, is it appropriate to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the single market today? the balance sheet shows that the single market has damaged the labour market by encouraging the arrival of posted workers. the single market has encouraged the relocation and deindustrialisation of france, leading to the loss of thousands of jobs. the single market will have imposed regulations which no longer allow france to protect key sectors subject to the obligation to compete. hundreds of bakers, retailers and other artisans are closing down because they cannot pay their electricity bills, something that edf's monopoly could have prevented. the single market will have made us dependent on powers like the united states or china in strategic sectors like pharmaceuticals or more recently with ai. the single market has fostered crime by facilitating arms trafficking and the movement of terrorists. the single market will have encouraged an uncontrolled immigration of foreigners who do not speak our language and are ignorant of our culture. the european economic community is the common market, it is the fact of coming together to trade, but this must not imply the suppression of national sovereignty, general de gaulle said. this is marine le pen's vision of europe, a europe of cooperation in which each state remains sovereign. it is not the one we know, and it will be difficult for france to celebrate this anniversary.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, a couple of years ago we were shocked by the pandora papers. one of the things they touched upon was the use of shell entities and change thereof to perform transactions and or hold property in an abusive manner. unshell seeks to stop this practice within the single market so that shell entities tax—resident in the eu member states can no more be made use of for tax avoidance purposes. as you know, unshell aims to tackle only the eu—internal aspects of shelled entities. in order to address the third—country dimension of pandora papers, the commission’s services are working on another initiative called safe. this initiative will address the role of those intermediaries who enable tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. and what they do is that they devise tax arrangements and schemes that include third—country dimensions. that proposal should be ready for the middle of this year. i wish to thank the rapporteur, ms pereira, as well as colleague meps and ep colleagues who have worked on preparing this ep report on unshell. your commitment to unshell is really important. this commission and the parliament are allies when it comes to promoting standards of tax fairness and transparency within the european union and beyond. in the commission, we share the key points made in this report. the report stresses the importance of ensuring that unshell is as clear as possible. this is essential, not only for taxpayers who need to comply with it, but also for the tax administrators who have to implement it. when rules are not clear, they tend to be either avoided or poorly implemented. we don’t want that to happen. legal certainty is a must. the report stresses the need for having proportional measures which should not interfere with genuine business practices, and of course, in particular, small and medium—sized businesses and digital startups. on the one hand, one should ensure clear, effective and strict tax consequences against shell entities. on the other, unshell is a balancing act, and i fully share the importance of ensuring that it does its job well. unshell will need to put an end to entities that are empty of substance. it should not have a negative impact on the real economy. in the unlikely scenario of genuine businesses being captured by the rules, there is a procedure to request an upfront exemption. i also want to reiterate the commission’s commitment to assist member states in the implementation of this legislation by any appropriate and useful means. and let me also assure you that the tax consequences as laid down in the proposal for non-compliant entities will not interfere with the existing bilateral tax agreements between member states and third countries. and that is a key aspect also in the ongoing discussions within the council. i would like to thank you for your suggestions regarding the definitions of beneficial owner, the minimum economic substance test and the exceptional carve—out of structures that are not used to gain tax advantages. these are indeed key elements of the legal act, and the commission remains committed to ensuring that these concepts are adequately delineated and clear in legal terms. finally, let me also thank you for your interesting suggestion of adding the possibility for member states’ joint tax audits. the tax consequences for shell entities sit at the heart of unshell, and that final step will be critical for the effectiveness of the directive. member states are currently debating the framework in council, and the commission is in close cooperation with the presidency in order to contribute in the best possible way to clarifying how the mechanism will work. we look forward to member states’ agreement on unshell soon, and we expect such agreements to be ambitious with clear, yet strong and deterrent tax consequences in order finally to put an end to the use of such shell entities for tax purposes within our union.
on behalf of the s&d group, the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. tax evaders and letterbox companies, they're almost synonymous. it is therefore right that we should be cleaning up the dust from businesses and cleaning up european industry by taking out letter boxes. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. and in the latter they are successful, too successful. the letterbox companies are responsible for the disappearance of some eur 60 billion in greedy hands every year. that's a huge amount of money, money we can no longer spend on caring for our parents, educating our children, or much-needed purchasing power. this law is the first of its kind in the world. it is european in scope and that is good. this means that companies can no longer make a profit by setting up dummy companies on the amsterdam zuidas, the luxembourg kirchberg or anywhere else in europe. there's no escaping it now. i would like to thank lídia pereira and the other negotiators for the good cooperation. that led to a good proposal. this proposal deserves to be adopted quickly. i would like to join lídia pereira in her appeal to the ministers and the countries: do not delay the great cleanup of our economy any longer. we as members of the european parliament are calling for a thorough examination of the matter and for the dust to be collected from all corners of the house. the letterbox companies in the financial sector should also be examined. this is the chance to strike a major blow to tax evasion, to finally deliver blue tax envelopes where they belong: i've worked for the mailbox companies of the richest people on this planet and some of the biggest companies in the world. don't let that chance go to waste.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, madam rapporteur lídia pereira , in 2021, it has been said, the pandora papers have brought to light tax evasion practices within our own european union, through shell companies that have been created, that are created, for the sole purpose of tax evasion. a strong european response was expected, and before inviting the whole world to follow suit we must of course approach it ourselves. we therefore welcome, in our report and in general, the commission's proposal for an 'unshell' directive, which will allow for coordinated and ambitious action. in the report which will be voted on tomorrow, parliament insists that this instrument should be legally and technically operational, and we then call on the council to adopt the directive quickly. we are in a field where the inventiveness and speed of fraudsters is infinite. in the face of this inventiveness and speed, we must act, diligently and creatively. that's what we're trying to do. it is true that sometimes our administrative action does not keep pace with the creativity of those who seek to circumvent the rules. we are expected: the european citizens expect us to fight tax evasion and to ensure fair competition, first between european companies and then between european and global companies. this will be the subject of your safe initiative, which you have mentioned and which will be very important. and it will be very important, of course, that all of us together, the council, the commission and parliament, all play their part in ensuring that we are on time.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, commissioner, the european union must ban shell companies. i hope that this directive will begin to lead the way in that direction. the shell companies are at the heart of all the tax evasion and avoidance scandals we've seen in recent years: the pandora papers, luxleaks... even the international monetary fund points to them as a fundamental structure of the bypass. the mechanism is well known: a company creates a company without any apparent activity, simply to transfer funds there to be taxed in a jurisdiction where, although it is not yet active, it can pay much less tax than it should. or, for a billionaire, creating a shell company also means placing his assets, placing his real estate, in a company in which he does not have to pay taxes either at the place of his residence or at the place where the real estate is. this is the modus operandi we have come to know in recent years and we must stop allowing it, because this has only one name and it is tax piracy. the shell companies allow for genuine tax piracy in our jurisdictions. it's worth noting this at a time when the davos summit is taking place and when oxfam, for example, has just released its report on inequality, pointing out that, roughly, right now, in 2020, the richest 1% of the world has captured two-thirds of all the wealth created. we are in a time of great inequality and our legislation still allows the wealth of the activity to be hidden from the treasury. i therefore welcome the adoption by parliament of an ambitious position for that directive, strengthening penalties, strengthening the definition of what types of vehicles should be considered as shell companies and also limiting the exceptions very much. what we need now is to call on the council to stop reducing ambition, to stop making a directive with less leverage towards front companies, so that we can really have regulation that has a major effect.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, establishing rules to prevent the misuse of shell entities for tax purposes is something that most people will agree on is a good thing. shell entities operating out of europe are demonstrated to cost the tax authorities roughly eur 20 billion per year. in addition to the financial costs, when we talk about the misuse of shell entities, we target a wide range of economic and organised crimes. the challenge for legislators is to ensure that our work here does not interfere with the proper functioning of business and market practices. so, i’m glad to see this positive report and look forward to seeing the cost savings and crime reduction it will bring to member states and our taxpayers. congratulations to the rapporteur and thanks to my colleagues on a straightforward negotiating procedure.
on behalf of the left group. mr. president, the revelations are shocking: i'm not sure what you're talking about. a tax piracy that costs tens of billions of euros every year. very rich people, very few people and very large companies use shell companies to avoid paying taxes and thus deprive the european budget and the state budgets of revenue, leading to overtaxation of employees, self-employed people, small and medium-sized enterprises. this crime must stop. the commission, mr vestager, is talking about a loss of between 35 and 70 billion euros a year. this may be a moderate estimate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and since we know very well that there are those in the council who are in favour of the continuation of tax evasion, the advocates of tax havens, parliament and the commission must, as the conference on the future of europe has called for, strengthen european cooperation in the fight against tax evasion by moving from unanimity - which becomes an instrument in the hands of tax evaders - to decisions by an increased majority. otherwise, we'll have no effect.
mr president in these times of crisis, when we're barely recovering from the coronavirus pandemic and there's a war in our neighborhood, and we're shooting ourselves in the foot with sanctions, it's more important than ever that we actually collect taxes. as the commission's impact assessment has shown, tax avoidance front companies are responsible for some eur 23 billion of lost tax revenue annually at eu level. i therefore welcome the fact that we are taking action against them in the framework of cross-border cooperation. the european parliament, however, is a bit more than that. the original aim of the proposal was to create a fair and stable business environment for companies, but the ep would greatly increase the administrative burden on the corporate sector by extending the range of companies required to report. in the fight against tax evasion, i suggest that my colleagues also consider the aspects of efficiency and enforceability. i am confident that common sense will prevail in the council and that we will finally have legislation that is practical, that is a reasonable burden on companies, and that we will only cause difficulties to those who really deserve it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tax evasion is an industry. his homeland is tax havens. its people are the plutocrats, the oligarchs, those who already have everything, probably too much, but who always want more, or rather who do not want to share and who do not feel obligated to anything. his weapon is the shell companies, these shell companies that allow the transactions to be hidden - that's their dna and their only purpose - companies that have allowed some pretty bizarre things, like the fact that an island in the english channel became the world's first banana producer, or that mauritius became the first investor in india. we know that shell companies are used to protect criminals and to facilitate tax evasion. what must be remembered is that they serve above all to make certain members of the elite secede in secret, with the democratic consequences that we all know. this directive is extremely welcome, and for democratic reasons, not just economic. we were told it was impossible because, of course, whenever there's money at stake, it's always impossible, so we did it. now, the next step is to really bury the shell companies and especially to regulate their intermediaries. we are counting on the european commission, parliament and also the council not to block it.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, this text symbolically marks the end of globalisation, which is supposed to be a happy one, but which in reality has only divided the world into zones: industrial production zones, consumption zones, service zones and garbage zones. asia, legitimately asking for more respect and consideration, has sent back european and american waste, thus forcing us to review our economic and ecological model, which is at best unfair and unfair. the waste trade market represents more than €80 billion, with 182 million tonnes traded worldwide. the waste is mostly sent to poor or developing countries, where recycling is not guaranteed, where workers' rights are violated, where traffickers and exploiters of all kinds abound. this waste is often dumped in landfills or dumped into the sea, adding a little more pollution to our oceans. they are transported by container ships, which are responsible for a large proportion of greenhouse gas emissions. this is the reality of waste transfers and a world without borders, which is absurd. it is absurd to find french milk bricks on the other side of the world, german batteries or spanish used cartons, when we have been advocating virtuous ecology for a long time and for a long time. free trade and the free movement of goods without any hindrance or reflection have collided with their giant trash can, and that's a good thing. at the foot of the wall, let us organise the relocation of an activity that is fundamental to our future: recycling. by restricting exports, this text recognises the need to curb globalisation, strengthen our european industries and promote the circular economy and short-circuits, which we have always defended against you. we hope that the european union will become aware of the urgency of these relocations in order to respond to the industrial and climate emergency we are experiencing.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the swedish presidency which is beginning illustrates a fundamental political trend which should alert us all. a few weeks ago, it was said, the right and the local liberals decided to form a government. but this government has the support of the far right, an alliance tolerated by the right-wing groups, the epp and renew, which translates in practice into a total programmatic compromise. harro on immigrants, blamed for all the ills, anti-muslim obsession, climate denial. all this was said just a few minutes ago by my colleague from the far right. the health cordons which we are still holding tight in this house are breaking everywhere. the far right is trivialized, normalized, and the neo-nazi origins of the so-called swedish democrats - who, by the way, bear their name very badly - are forgotten. and this cord of health, here, it's broken in sweden, but not only. in france too, when emmanuel macron elected the national assembly of the vice-presidents of the rassemblement national. in italy, when the post-fascist meloni takes over the country thanks to the corrupt right wing of berlusconi. in europe, when you, mr weber, lay the foundations for a rapprochement between your group and that of the reactionaries. the attempted coups of trump or bolsonaro and the authoritarian drift of orbán show it clearly: you can't play with the extreme right because, when they take power, they always refuse to hand it over democratically. the alliance of liberals and the far right, which is becoming the norm everywhere, is always playing out the same scenario. on the one hand, the questioning of democracy and fundamental rights, on the other, the neoliberal policies that are destroying the welfare state. the swedish presidency's programme is not lacking in this respect. i looked closely and saw no change in course, and this while the economic crisis is plunging millions of people into poverty. only, once again, the purring of the austerity doxa. you say in your programme, and i quote you: good for structural reforms and the consolidation of public finances. understand: to ruin our public services more and more. you are committing yourselves to implementing the budgetary control rules which have led the european commission to ask 15 countries to reform their pension systems within a year, or to ask my country, france, eight times to break its pension system for the sole purpose of saving money. it is written in black and white: the cost of pensions must be limited, even if it means making people work until they die or fall ill. this accounting obsession, which i admit is so zealously pursued by some european leaders, has real consequences for people's lives. that is why in brussels, in strasbourg, but also in the streets, you will find us on your way. we no longer want this deadly horizon that you are drawing for all the peoples of europe. we do not want the world we see here in brussels or strasbourg, where after work there is poverty or the graveyard.
madam president, mr prime minister, sweden is taking over the presidency of the council of the european union for six months at a time when there are many challenges. first of all, on the question of migration, because our continent has become a kind of giant sieve because of the ideological policy of the european commission which favours mass immigration at the expense of the nationals of each of our states. as recently as 13 january, frontex announced that 300 000 illegal entries into the european union in 2022 had been recorded, which represents an increase of 64% compared to 2021. this is the highest level of arrivals since 2016. we are counting on sweden, and especially on the democratic party in your majority, to stop this crazy immigration policy. it is a matter of preserving our civilization and our national identities. on the economic front, a sensible protectionist policy is urgently needed in the face of unfair competition from the united states and its $500 billion mega-plan. the german plan to support its economy, amounting to €200 billion, adopted without any consultation with the other member states, must be called into question because it also creates unfair competition. sweden also has a priority to strengthen the common foreign policy and to continue building up european defence. we believe that these areas should remain the responsibility of the member states. it is a question of sovereignty, especially in view of the results of the european union's bellicose policy in the conflict in ukraine. if your presidency, mr. prime minister, could bring about the return of diplomacy, that would be a considerable advance. we can only urge you to take a strong stand in this vital path to world peace. the eu is also working to develop a common strategy for the fight against terrorism, which will be based on the principles of the lisbon strategy. during the next six months, your country will continue the european debate on what is called the safeguarding of the fundamental values of the european union, particularly in hungary and poland. we hope that your presidency will not play into the hands of the commission, which uses these values to punish states which resist its policies. it is scandalous to banish from the european union, to punish and stigmatize these two great democracies which have always fought for freedom. we hope that you will bring reason and balance to this one-sided and highly ideological debate.
madam president, mr prime minister, welcome to strasbourg. the swedish presidency is opening up in a context of major crisis, as you have said. i would like to thank you because, in this context, you are demonstrating with your government that it is possible to repair europe. you said you wanted a greener, safer, freer europe. greener, not by less work and science, but on the contrary by relying, as you do, on the best of european engineering and in particular on the nuclear industry, which allows us to count on - and will allow us to count on - a safer, decarbonised energy tomorrow, not by managing our impotence, by allocating the quotas of illegal migrants whom we have not been able to prevent from arriving in europe, but on the contrary by controlling our borders. and of course more free, you are a strong voice to say that it is not because we spend more public money that we increase the prosperity of our societies; it is only because we unleash creativity and leave our states where they are, in their role and responsibilities. mr prime minister, we are facing major challenges today. selma lagerlöf said in niels holgersson's the wonderful journey that intelligence and wisdom make beggars into princes. we do not doubt for a moment, on the contrary, that you will be able to show that intelligence and wisdom, and that you can count on your political family, the epp, to support you in this endeavour, despite all the adversities and sometimes, unfortunately, despite the lack of reality that continues to thrive in our european institutions. we need a strong swedish presidency to be able to repair europe and make it stronger in the terrible international context we are experiencing. mr prime minister, lycka till, and good luck!
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the video game industry is worth more than €23 billion and one in two europeans plays video games. this sector has grown and established itself over the years in the cultural world and we must protect consumers, especially the youngest, with the regulation of loot boxes which are a scourge for players. not only is the principle of random pack-paying with virtual or non-virtual currency dangerous, but it also reinforces the addictive side of video games. the same applies to the pay-to-win principle, which must also be regulated or even banned. half the european players are women. and yet, between hypersexualized characters, rape culture and cyberbullying, there is not a day that goes by that women are not assaulted online and offline. evidence of this was a video game called rape day, in which women, mostly naked, were shown being beaten, raped, chased or threatened with guns by a male character. i would say that this is where the patriarchal self leads with the exclusion of women in the video game industry, which serves to perpetuate the rape culture and to rape half the population. the fight against gender-based and sexual violence also involves cultural representation. video games can and should be a tool to raise awareness of this violence among young people and adults alike. regulating this sector in this direction would, in my view, put an end to these practices online and offline.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is the second time in a few weeks that we have had a debate on video games here and it is a very good thing. this is a booming industry. it is a particularly important resource for our digital skills, for our cultural industries and therefore for our international reach. it affects one in two europeans, which is why we must be very vigilant when it comes to protecting players. the european union is the relevant level for this, as seen with the pegi system, which clearly indicates the age of a game and the nature of its content. we can go further, as this report recommends, to protect miners from potentially misleading commercial practices. we must also go further to ensure that women can play in a healthy and respectful world. and yes, we need to ensure that business models are virtuous and transparent to users. but we must also go further, more generally, to build a genuine european strategy for video games. an ambitious and fruitful strategy which i advocated in a previous report which was voted on by a large majority here.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, i’m pleased to represent the council in this debate. many member states are currently facing an increase in respiratory infections due to the combined circulation of three viruses: the rs virus, influenza and the coronavirus. the current covid—19 situation is considerably calmer compared to the past two years, partly due to the high level of vaccination coverage achieved in europe. however, this winter season brings new challenges. respiratory infections have occurred earlier and in higher numbers than expected. more children are affected than usual. the seasonal flu epidemic has also begun earlier this year and cases continue to increase. the covid crisis, as well as the russian war of aggression against ukraine are also having negative consequences on global supply chains and the pharmaceutical industry’s overall production capacities. consequently, health systems across europe, particularly hospitals and emergency departments, find themselves under pressure once again to meet the rising number of patients with respiratory diseases and the rising demands for medicines to treat these, such as antibiotics, antivirals and anti—inflammatories. i can assure you that the swedish presidency is monitoring the situation very carefully and will continue to do so. the presidency is also committed to promote action deemed necessary both at european and national level to enable sufficient supply of medicines across all member states. we should work towards devising long—term sustainable solutions to the structural causes of these shortages. the presidency welcomes the upcoming commission proposal on the revision of the pharmaceutical legislation, which aims to enhance the security supply of medicines and address the issue of shortages. thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first of all let me start by wishing everyone a happy new year and to say how important i think that we have this topic today on the agenda of the european parliament because of the surge that we are witnessing in europe in respiratory infections and of course the shortage of medicines. we are now three years after the covid—19 pandemic and of course the covid virus is still circulating within europe. and i wanted to share with you that we are closely monitoring the situation in china, and of course in the united states, where a new omicron subvariant has appeared. and with the circulation of covid and the impact of other respiratory viruses, we are facing a very challenging situation. the lockdown measures that have been in place because of covid for almost three years have made people understandably less exposed to respiratory viruses. and when we say this, it actually means that children that were born since the pandemic may have never encountered the influenza virus, for example. member states have already reported high transmission rates in all population groups, but also that the season for the respiratory viruses has started earlier than usual. and this is putting huge pressure on already pressed health systems and workers. it may be triggering further staff shortages due to sick leave. and of course we can also possibly see stress—related anxiety and burnout as we saw in healthcare staff during the pandemic. i’m saying this because maintaining an adequate ratio between the staff and the patients in icus and paediatric wards is critical for patient safety and quality of care. also, vaccination against respiratory viruses remains our best tool, our shield to protect citizens. in areas with high circulation of respiratory viruses, healthcare facilities should consider making face masks a requirement for healthcare workers and visitors in healthcare facilities. so in the coming months, reinforcing our healthcare systems is a priority and also strengthening our healthcare force workforce. now, alongside this, we are also witnessing a shortage of medicines in some member states, and particularly antibiotics and paediatric analgesics. as this is a global issue we are in close contact with our international counterparts, while also supporting member states and industry. the systems and processes which we established during the pandemic and through the extended mandate – which was supported by this parliament – of the european medicines agency, are helping us to better manage the situation. we have already had discussions with industry and the main root causes which have been identified are the sharp increase in demand because of more respiratory infections, along with insufficient production capacity. as these products are authorised at national level, the member states’ competent authorities are already putting mitigation measures in place. and, together with the european medicines agency, we are doing our very best to support but also to coordinate member states and industry facing this challenge. we are doing this by deploying all the flexibility that the regulatory framework allows us to use in seeking ways with our industrial partners to rapidly increase production and to prevent and mitigate shortages. and if needed, hera can step in and coordinate on behalf of the member states the joint procurement of medical countermeasures, as we did during covid, and also organised matchmaking events between industry actors in order to help increase production. honourable members, i have often said from this podium that patients in the eu and across the eu, no matter where they live, must always have access to the medicines they need at affordable prices. and this is why, as has been mentioned before, we have the ambition to achieve this with a new pharmaceutical strategy for europe. we will be proposing both non—legislative and legislative measures for better access and greater security of supplies for medicines in the eu. the proposal to revise the pharmaceutical legislation is a programme for march, and will be including stronger obligations for supply, earlier notifications of shortages and withdrawals, and enhanced transparency of stocks. other non-legislative measures are being taken to keep the medicine supplies for the eu citizens and patients going. so our objective remains to secure access to medicines for all patients in need and to avoid disruption of medicines in the eu. i look forward to hearing your interventions on this very important topic today.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, to combat drug shortages, our continent must first of all become attractive again with an ambitious, stimulating and competitive industrial policy vis-à-vis china and the united states. influenza, bronchiolitis, covid-19: as soon as an outbreak appears, many patients face shortages of medicines. this is not a new phenomenon; in europe, drug shortages have increased 20-fold in 20 years. the causes are many: increased demand and price pressure, lack of diversification of sources of supply and massive offshoring of the production of active substances, since 80-85% of the active ingredients used to produce medicines in europe are imported from china and india and 45% of medicines marketed in europe are produced outside the european union. we are now highly dependent on countries that can decide to limit their exports, either to favour their own people - as is the case in china with paracetamol - or in the event of geopolitical conflicts. this situation is not sustainable. in my report on drug shortages adopted in this house in september 2020, a very large majority of the recommendations were made: relocation of the entire drug manufacturing chain, from the active substance to packaging and distribution, with tax and financial incentives and allowing state aid to encourage manufacturers to produce in europe, creation of a european stockpile of essential medicines, european stockpile monitoring both at the level of manufacturers and of each member state and, for medicines that are no longer profitable, the creation of non-profit european pharmaceutical establishments with the capacity to produce these medicines, which are often old but still essential for public health. so yes, since 2020, the european union has strengthened its legislative arsenal to better respond to the urgency of health crises. it is now time to give priority to the 'made in europe' to regain health sovereignty.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam commissioner, the triple epidemic of covid-19, influenza and bronchiolitis is putting pressure on our health systems and generating shortages of essential medicines. but this acute situation is occurring against a background of chronic supply stresses and we know the main causes: they are all rooted in anomalies in the development and marketing of the medicinal product within the union. after a single european marketing authorisation based on ema's expertise, there are 27 times, and in an uncoordinated way in each member state, a new national authorisation, a national evaluation system, bilateral price negotiation, a deep disinterest of manufacturers in medicines that have become unprofitable and a national stock management that puts member states in competition with each other. we must be able to restore the virtuous circle of european sovereignty: joint evaluation of medicines, collective price negotiation on the basis of enhanced cooperation, mobilisation of the ema and era agencies. the tools exist, and the crisis has shown us that they work. so let us take the opportunity of the review of pharmaceutical legislation to strengthen them.
mr president, commissioner, the shortage of medicines in france has become appalling and i am furious, furious, to learn that elhana, six years old, died in the emergency room in montauban. her father told the press that in 2023, losing a child to an antibiotic is not acceptable. this is not acceptable. what are big pharma doing spending all their time offshoring, speculating? and now you're gonna have to go through tax evasion to get some paracetamol? it's true that they found a good way: trading billions of doses of covid vaccines via text messages. in france, by 2023, we will have no more hospitals, no more nurses, no more medicines. this is the result of 30 years of maastricht, with the complicity of our governments, who are chasing mckinsey's advice. why have pharmacists struggled for months to obtain basic medicines such as antibiotics and paracetamol for children? for the european commission, europe will deal with this as with the purchase of millions of doses of covid vaccines that no one wants anymore. angry that at the same time we're being forced to throw out thousands of expired covid vaccines. it's an emergency. no parent can accept this shortage. there will be a reckoning.
the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is nauseating. this is the story of men and women of the left who betrayed all our principles for suitcases of cash. but this is not just an individual story. it is the history of states like qatar or morocco, but also russia or china that see our political class as a market in which they can come and do their shopping. it is the story of democratic institutions like ours that have not known, have not wanted to defend themselves against the corrosive power of money. ladies and gentlemen, we have been sounding the alarm with the commission on foreign interference for two years now. it is time to act, to make the transparency register mandatory for members and their teams, to create a european ethics body with strong controls and sanctions, to ensure that anyone who detects illegal or inappropriate activity is a whistleblower, to prevent conflicts of interest and the shenanigans that turn elected officials into lobbyists and vice versa. the time has come to show that our democracies are not for sale. to combat widespread suspicion and 'everyone rotten', stigmatising populism will not be enough. it is corruption that must be attacked. we want to defend democracy against its enemies. then let's start by cleaning the stables.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, my anger has not abated. the fact that corruption may have affected members of our assembly, that foreign powers may have thought that european democracy was being bought, is not a reason to be discouraged. but today we must act quickly and decisively, not forgetting what we already know and avoiding confusion. corruption, wherever it comes from, must be fought. to do that, we will look at the proposals on the table. one is missing and it is essential: the european union needs an independent ethical body that is inspired by good practice, such as the high authority for the transparency of public life in france. i campaigned in 2019 to propose it, it's time to decide it. we also need to track down malicious foreign interference. all of them. the work we are doing on interference in the special committee is telling us that the first country that is trying to manipulate us and that has sympathetic ears at the extremes of this house is russia. some would do everything to make us forget, we will not forget and we will continue the work, including to find out whether some defend russia out of conviction or just because they are filling their bank account. this can't go on forever. and i'm sorry that the left wants to end our work. i regret it, and i wonder why.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, at our last plenary session, the qatar gate was already an unprecedented shockwave, but it was really only the tip of the iceberg. we have since learned that the network of corruption used by qatar was much wider. we discover a sprawling system that was believed to have been originally set up by morocco. morocco. i repeat this word because i am surprised that none of the previous speakers, neither from the commission nor from the members, mentioned morocco, which has therefore put this system of corruption in place since 2019 and perhaps much earlier, and which would have benefited other states as well, such as saudi arabia or mauritania. so yes, of course, we must extend to morocco the measures decided by our parliament on qatar. but the truth is that we will not end the all-powerful lobbying of the state or private sector unless we tackle the root of the problem. the culture of impunity and opacity that leaves the door wide open to all interference. to do that, our starting point should be simple: that's it. this is the text of the resolution we collectively voted on last december, which set out a very clear roadmap. implementing it in full and with a specific timetable should be our top priority. so why is president roberta metsola drawing up another plan that rejects 11 of the 15 proposals voted on and adopted by our assembly in this resolution? why bury the establishment of a special committee to reform the european parliament in depth? the obligation to have a transparency register, an independent high authority... all of it: buried. the resolution was approved by 541 votes to two. a consensus that has never been seen before. so, to save democracy, we probably have to start by doing one simple thing: respect it and clean the basement and attic of our institutions. and since it is only january, i propose a good resolution for the union in 2023: that ethics finally take precedence over money.
madam president, 436 meps voted on 15 december against our amendment calling for the immediate setting up of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the qatar gate case which has been shaking our parliament for the past few weeks. the committee of inquiry is the only effective measure to combat the excesses of all these networks of influence that are swarming in our european bodies. in order to avoid this immediate committee of inquiry, it is objected that this would not be possible until the judicial case was concluded. this is not true, as our assembly created in 2016 a commission of inquiry for the so-called panama papers case, while a judicial procedure was underway. the same is true of the so-called pegasus case, where our assembly set up a commission of inquiry in march 2022, while the judicial case was still ongoing. my group therefore calls for the immediate establishment of such a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the political responsibility of the qatar gate. it shall not interfere in any way with the judicial proceedings as they are conducted. by refusing our offer, you are making yourself an accomplice to a system that ultimately suits you. we're not going to do that. the committee responsible for monitoring external interference, chaired by mr glucksmann, saw nothing coming. it is therefore essential to set up this committee to make up for the shortcomings of the committee responsible for monitoring external interference, without waiting for several years for the judicial file to be completed.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, this is a quality report, but i have the impression at the moment that it is also a report that could be that of a communication agency. it is a historic plea for the erasure of nations in favour of a brussels super-state. we are not here to celebrate the foreign policy of the european union and the decisions of the european external action service. we are here to control initiatives and represent the will of our compatriots. the french, as you know, do not want the european union to enlarge. they don't want the qualified majority to decide whether we go to war, cut off diplomatic relations, or sell weapons. they also don't want sanctions to replace diplomacy. they are even less willing to be dragged into a war in ukraine today and perhaps tomorrow in the balkans. whereas yesterday nicolas sarkozy could achieve peace in georgia in 2008, françois hollande and angela merkel could build the minsk agreements in 2014, emmanuel macron is now bending to the instructions of the european institutions rather than launching a french initiative. it's a setback for our sovereignty. it is also a step backwards for peace.
madam president, ukraine has entered the winter and the winter is hard. the russian strikes against civilians, the heroic resistance of the ukrainian army on the front have a price and it is heavy. if kiev is to win, we must do more. producing more military equipment and delivering more to ukraine. today, we must applaud what the european union is doing. welcoming the €3 billion committed under the european peace facility and the will to do more. to welcome the fact that in a few weeks 10,000 ukrainian soldiers have been trained and to commit to training even more. tomorrow, europe will provide a financial incentive for europeans to buy military equipment together, in order to rebuild their stocks and continue their aid to ukraine. all this is positive, but it is not the end. in too many member states, defence spending still falls short of the 2% of gdp target set by nato. as for arms deliveries, we are still doing too little and often too late. providing tanks has been paramount since the beginning of the battle of bakhmout, which did not start yesterday. france has shown the way. the eyes are on the german leopard 2s and we hope that strong decisions will be taken in berlin. i have only spoken about ukraine because the future of our partner will determine the security of our continent and our union for years to come. we say a lot that we will help kiev as long as it takes. let's help her as much and as fast as we can.
mr president, the european union is not a nation but an international institution. just because it has a flag and an anthem - the relics of an era you hate, when patriotism was a cultural fact - does not mean that the european union is delusional. and it is because you have understood it well, mr mcallister, that by disregarding the treaties, without even pretending to care about the opinion of the people, you are surreptitiously seeking to carry out a new robbery on competences which belong exclusively to nations - foreign policy, defence policy - by wishing to impose the rule of the qualified majority. like many others, these relationships will remain wishful thinking, the wishful thinking of capricious children who think they are justified in imposing their will without any basis. in the recent conflicts that have ravaged our continent, the one in kosovo, the one between russia and ukraine, and not forgetting the one between armenia and azerbaijan, the european union has accumulated errors, aligning itself with american policy without a vision of our own interests, thus penalizing the citizens of europe. the rule of qualified majority in these areas of the rule of law is not for tomorrow, fortunately.
...human rights for the european union can be summed up in a single phrase that nobody has uttered: qatar gate. the scandal affecting this parliament is historic: for at least ten years an islamist dictatorship has been able to guide the resolutions of our institution in accordance with its interests. this is an unprecedented humiliation for a european parliament which is teaching the whole world lessons and pretends to subject the policy of states to the opinions of ngos. what lessons have we learned so far from this scandal? i don't have one. worse, you even refused to immediately set up a committee of inquiry, as proposed by the identity and democracy group. it is a whole system that is being exposed by the qatar gate, corrupt ngos, european institutions that are more arrogant than honest, socialist lecturers who worked with an islamist dictatorship. no one will take this report seriously, because it comes from an institution that is currently discredited by an unprecedented scandal. yes, it is urgent to create a real commission of inquiry without waiting for a judgment for years.
madam president, please. the european parliament has the authority to act as a champion of human rights. thank you for your reporting. it is therefore welcome that the report stands up for the rights of national, ethnic and linguistic minorities. it is also a step forward to recognise that the root causes of migration need to be addressed locally. however, the report now threatens the credibility of the european parliament. it pits the free exercise of religion against a political interpretation of human rights. it simply, let's say, comically, asks thousands of years of religious communities to recognize the right to atheism, to abortion, or to sexual orientation. religious freedom is replaced by the restriction of religious freedom. this is nothing less than a violation of the autonomy of different denominations and churches all over the world. my fellow members, it is not our task to redefine human rights, let us not allow the idea of freedoms rooted in natural law to lose its meaning.
i have to say, madam president, unaffordable, equal, universal, indivisible - these are our human rights. the past year has shown us once again that the reality is often very different. the war of aggression waged by russia against ukraine has led to war crimes and grave violations of international humanitarian law in the heart of europe. in the xinjiang autonomous region of china, the uighur minority is facing massive repression, massive human rights violations. in the united states - and not only there - women are being denied their fundamental right to bodily autonomy. in iran, people die fighting for their freedom. human rights are being trampled on at the eu's external borders. the trends worldwide are alarming. the list could go on and on. it is therefore beyond question that we, the european parliament, must take a firm stand on this. we must be the counterweight to these frightening developments. the protection and promotion of human rights - not just in europe but worldwide - must be the focal point of our political action.
madam president, thank you, dear isabelle, for this annual report which confirms the trend we are seeing: the state of democracy and human rights is deteriorating a little more every day in the world. states that claim to be democratic are turning into authoritarian regimes, making the rule of law optional. we must put human rights at the heart of our relations with third countries, but by treating our partners on an equal footing. i am thinking in particular of our relationship with the african continent, where china is currently pursuing policies based on the asymmetrical exploitation of people and resources. we need to work with partners who are working together as equals for a fairer, more equitable world that respects people, cultures and human rights. let's create this partnership by building with civil society, by supporting human rights activists, by encouraging the skills and dynamism of young people who only want to express themselves, to work, to develop projects within their country. let us be an enviable example and truly commit ourselves to relations based on human rights and the equality of peoples.
madam president, we are talking about human rights in danger. they are particularly so tonight, in the general indifference in nagorno-karabakh. the latchyn road, the only possible access to this territory, was closed more than a month ago by azerbaijan. 120,000 armenians, 120,000 innocent civilians are being held hostage, 30,000 of them children. a population that lacks everything and first of all food, now rationed. a population that lacks the most essential care. already, one person has died, a patient, because he did not receive the care he needed. more than 13 children are in intensive care and need urgent treatment. this is simply, ladies and gentlemen, state terrorism. terrorism by a state, azerbaijan, which wants to do everything to drive these people from their land. what difference does it make with russia that we are fighting? what's the difference with russia being complicit in this terrorism? and what is the commission doing about this? it finances these operations by buying mr aliev's gas and treating him as a responsible partner. ladies and gentlemen, tonight this house may be heated by the suffering of the armenian people. it is time to get out of this denial of reality and complicity. it is time to send a european mission to provide urgent humanitarian aid. it is time to punish the aliyev regime and tell him finally, face to face, that violence does not always triumph and that one day justice will prevail.
this conversation is over. the vote will be taken tomorrow, wednesday, january 18, 2023.
in writing. respect for human rights, the promotion of democracy, must be a priority worldwide. however, the situation of human rights is deteriorating, geopolitical interests are being overshadowed in the world, and the concept of democracy has become a tool of absurdly liberal ideology and double standards in many cases, as this report shows. although not with sufficient weight, but on the basis of our proposals, the report also includes a passage on the rights of national minorities. it is important to draw the attention of countries in whose territory national, linguistic and ethnic minorities live to the fact that assimilation policies or the harassment of minorities as a threat to national security are contrary to their obligations under international treaties and agreements to protect the rights of these minorities on their own territory. the report calls on the governments of the eu's partner countries to respect the rights of national, ethnic and linguistic minorities, including their culture, language, religion, traditions and history, in order to preserve diversity and linguistic and cultural identity. minorities must not become the target of military tensions or conflicts, or the means! understandably, the situation of minority rights is worsening in the shadow of the almost one-year-old war in ukraine, but it is important to pay attention to the respect of human rights, including minority rights, since citizens of a democratic country should not be discriminated against on the basis of national or ethnic origin, language or religion.
the protection of human rights, fundamental freedoms and the dignity of every human being must be the basis of a values-based policy. the concern is a serious threat to human rights worldwide, as nearly 75% of the world's population experienced a deterioration in the human rights situation in their country last year. as we look to 2022, we must think about the future. there are many human rights violations and i would like to draw parliament's attention to a couple of them. each year, more than 100,000 christians worldwide lose their lives for their faith. it's a terrible chase. sadly, discrimination against christians is at the forefront of this phenomenon. it is therefore unacceptable that the post of eu special envoy on the promotion of freedom of religion or belief outside the eu has been vacant for over a year. another worrying issue is the growing violation of children's rights worldwide. a systematic and coherent approach is needed to promote and protect children's rights in the eu's internal and external policies. we must step up our efforts to protect children's rights, as the growing number of emergencies around the world has led to a growing number of violations of children's rights, including violence, forced separation of children from their parents and lack of access to education and healthcare. children are our future, let's not forget that when we write the laws.
in writing. the annual report provides a clear overview of the world's major challenges to human rights and democracy, their shortcomings and the policies needed to address them. it also provides a good overview of the many and varied instruments for strengthening this policy. human rights, fundamental freedoms, democracy and the rule of law are core values of the union, both within the union and in its external policy. i wholeheartedly support its priority. it is precisely because of the priority nature of the matter that i am in favour of nuances where they are lacking. for example, the call for the worldwide protection of human rights defenders, which i fully support. i believe that the automatic granting of humanitarian or short-stay visas to human rights defenders as a group ignores the principle that visa applications are always an individual matter to be assessed in the light of the specific circumstances of the person concerned. another nuance i would like to stress is that migrants and refugees must be treated correctly, but that the increasing abuse of migration flows, in some cases deliberately created as a hybrid weapon for reasons of confrontation, must also be taken into account.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the eu response to the shocking attack on civilians in the dnieper river: strengthening sanctions against the putin regime and military support for ukraine (2023/2511 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, commissioner, we highly appreciate the european parliament’s unwavering support to ukraine and its heroic fight against the russian aggression. russia continues to show its inhumane face and applies its brutal missile terror. such actions constitute war crimes and must stop immediately. we strongly condemn russia’s continued strikes on civilian targets in ukraine, including energy infrastructure. russia is weaponising this winter by leaving civilians without electricity and water in winter temperatures. ukrainian citizens cannot even find refuge in their homes when russia is also hitting residential buildings with missiles – like the attack on the residential building in dnipro on 14 january. as my prime minister stated, intentional attacks against civilians constitute war crimes, and those responsible will be held to account. the eu will continue supporting ukraine and its people, and the presidency will give priority to all measures to ensure accountability for the violations of international law and war crimes committed in ukraine. in this regard, the eu strongly supports the investigation by the prosecutor of the international criminal court and is looking at all options at their disposal. the bravery and the resilience of the ukrainian defenders is beyond praise. they have withstood almost a year of brutal, full scale invasion by the russian army. ukraine has been suffering since the beginning of the russian war – that is since 2014. this is the longest war that europe has seen in modern history. honourable members, on 20 january, the ukraine defence contact group will meet at the ramstein air base in germany to discuss the next steps in the military assistance that is being provided to ukraine by its partners. the eu member states continue to contribute to a massive delivery of military equipment to ukraine. with the help of the european peace facility. the total amount committed under the epf is eur 3.1 billion. this is this allow us to cover procurement costs as well as repair and maintenance for the equipment already delivered. last november we launched the eu military assistance mission for ukraine, which is delivering good results. our objective is the training of 15 000 ukrainian military personnel this winter, and we are on track. the majority of the member states are actively taking part in this mission. our goal is to train, by the end of march 2023, around 10 000 ukrainian soldiers. as you know, in response to russia’s military aggression against ukraine, the eu has imposed so far nine far—reaching and hard—hitting sanctions packages in close coordination with partners and allies. our sanctions have already sent russia’s economy into deep recession, affecting the ability of russia to finance its war. as our leaders have stated on several occasions, the eu remains ready to move quickly with further restrictive measures in addition to those already adopted, if developments on the ground justify this. nothing is off the table. following the implementation of the eu ban on russian crude oil and g7 price gap at the beginning of december, russia is starting to feel the impact. the volume of crude exports has fallen and the price has declined, substantially from the peak of 2022. the long term effect of sanctions on the russian economy will likely be even stronger and will further weaken the russian economy and its military capabilities. the european council invites the commission to present options in line with the eu and international law, enabling the use of russian frozen assets to support ukraine’s reconstruction. discussions among the member states in this complex matter are ongoing. as the presidency, we are determined to take this work forward.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear minister, honourable members, after almost a year into this brutal russian war of aggression against ukraine, we keep being appalled by the russian heinous attacks on civilians and critical civilian infrastructure. in bucha, irpin, borodyanka, izyum and many other places, mass graves have been discovered after the ukrainian army liberated these ukrainian territories. in recent months, we have seen an intensification of russian air strikes against energy and water infrastructure, hitting also residential buildings. the latest horrifying example of such attacks is dnipro city, where on 14 january the russian military conducted an attack which hit a multi-storey residential building in an exclusively residential area where there were no ukrainian military objects. this took 40 innocent civilian lives, among them also children. at least 25 people are still missing, so the death toll is likely to increase. this is one of many attacks that are potential war crimes committed by russia in ukraine since the beginning of this senseless war. russia must stop. it is why the european commission is determined to continue supporting ukraine. today, we disbursed the first eur 3 billion of the eur 18 billion macro—financial support agreed last december. let me recall that the aim of this emergency assistance is to provide short-term financial relief, financing ukraine’s immediate needs, rehabilitation of critical infrastructure and initial support towards sustainable post-war reconstruction, with a view to supporting ukraine on its path towards european integration. we will not rest until russia withdraws its forces from ukraine and until justice will be served. russia’s barbaric actions only strengthen our resolve to ensure accountability and to support ukraine and its people. we will work to hold all russian decision makers accountable for their gross violations of international law and international humanitarian law in ukraine. the european council has invited the commission, the european external action service and the council to take work forward on accountability, in accordance with eu law and international law. the prosecution of the crime of aggression is of concern to the international community as a whole. the european union actively supports ukraine’s efforts on accountability through our assistance through the international criminal court and its investigations, assistance to the office of the prosecutor general of ukraine, as well as assistance to national investigations by eu member states through eurojust coordination. more concretely, the european union is funding further development of the war crimes platform established by the ukrainian prosecutor general’s office. the platform allows the general public to upload digital evidence of alleged core international crimes. experts from the eu advisory mission in ukraine are providing strategic advice, operational assistance and training in areas such as crime scene and forensic investigations, drafting of legislation and indictments, collection and preservation of evidence. finally, eurojust supports a joint investigation team between several eu member states in ukraine. the jit is one of the most advanced tools to facilitate international coordination on national investigations of core international crimes committed in ukraine. in june 2022, eurojust’s mandate was strengthened upon a proposal from the commission to enable the agency to preserve, store and analyse evidence relating to international crimes. eurojust has therefore been working on the implementation of this new database, which allows data to be stored safely and to be analysed in an advanced manner. these efforts need to be sustained. ensuring accountability in ukraine will be a lengthy process. i want to commend the resolve of ukrainian people. we continue to support ukraine as long as it takes. i am sure that you have taken the same commitment and of course we will listen carefully to your proposals and suggestions. but again, we will continue to support ukraine with military support, financial support and humanitarian support, but also going forward to be sure it is possible to bring to justice those responsible for a lot of war crimes and crimes against humanity and a crime of aggression.
i note that representatives of both the council and the commission have already referred to the following very important debate on the question of responsibility for the crimes committed. we're going to have a conversation.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear colleagues, the criminal and, in words and deeds, utterly fascist putin regime has committed yet another in a series of war crimes against the civilian population of ukraine. i have been several times in dnipro and i would like to express my sincere condolences to the families of the victims of this vicious attack. my latest figures – and you are right, commissioner, the figures are likely to increase – but the latest i just got from kyiv is that there are 44 killed, including five children, and many injured and many missing still. it will not be forgotten and it will not be forgiven. i call on the commission and the council to strengthen the sanctions regime against this criminal regime. there is ample opportunity to increase it and to also double-check whether the existing ones are really followed. i am also very much in favour of extending the lists of personal sanctions, and we should definitely have a look at this navalny list, these 6 000 persons – i think they are not there by accident and i think they are all profiteers of the regime. and i think we need not prove that every individual is personally involved in the war crimes. but if there are hesitations – especially if we cannot seize the assets of these persons – what we can do is deny them visas. there is no right, there is no legal obligation for any of our countries to issue a visa to a third-country national. and when we have these persons that are not then able to enter our countries to enjoy the property or the yachts or whatever they have got here, that amounts de facto to an expropriation. and i really think we should embark on this approach and thereby contribute to the pressure that is exercised against the profiteers of this regime.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, mr commissioner, the recent attack against civilians in dnipro is a stark reminder that the european union must take decisive action in response. following that attack, the number of civilian victims surpassed 7 000, and we are still missing the data on missing persons. it’s good that we have this discussion today, and it will be even better if the next package strengthening sanctions against the putin regime is adopted as soon as possible. i wish mainly to stress how important it is that the already adopted sanctions are being implemented, so we do not see, for example, the confiscated yachts of russian oligarchs leaving the eu waters in the middle of the night. ahead of the ukraine contact group meeting in rammstein at the end of this week, our response must also be that increased military support is needed. we must show our solidarity with ukraine again and provide them with all the resources they need to protect their people and defend themselves against the aggressors.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, there is a letter signed by nearly 120 colleagues of parliament yesterday and today, with a message to the council and to the commission after the dnipro massacre to say that sanctions have to be strengthened as fast as possible. you have to stop to think that with the progressive packages of sanctions, as we are doing already now for ten months, that we’re going to have success. the council is saying it is going well with the sanctions. for me, the sanctions will only have a positive result when the putin regime stops what is happening in dnipro – that is a positive result of sanctions. therefore, we don’t need progressive packages, as we have seen. i said it already to your colleague, mr borrell, nearly ten months ago: with a dictator, with an authoritarian regime, if do you do a package of sanctions they adapt themselves and everything goes on. so we are now preparing a tenth package. in total – as mr gahler has said – of the 6 700 people identified as the backbone of the putin regime by the navalny foundation, the eu as the external action service – mr borrell and the whole commission – has as yet been capable to issue personal sanctions to 1 400 of them, of the 6 700. and that list has existed for nearly ten months already and is on the table of the eeas for ten months already. the second thing is secondary sanctions. there are still companies and individuals making deals and doing business in russia. i ask you, as fast as possible, to declare secondary sanctions on this, because that’s the only possibility to stop it. the last point is the 320 billion that is frozen in russian banks. why not transfer that money directly? russia is a terrorist state. so they do not need to have the reserves of their russian central bank. that money could be mobilised immediately, even for buying arms. finally – sorry but i’m speaking for 112 colleagues so you have to give me some additional room to do so – on arms, it’s clear what we need now. if europe wants to do something positive on this, well then it’s long—range missiles next to tanks – then it is long—range missiles so that tragedies like dnipro can no longer happen.
yes, of course, some seem to have more rights than others in this house, but we will continue. it’s a very important topic.
president, commissioner, the images of the attacks in dnipro are the most tragic proof of the ruthlessness of the war that putin is waging against ukraine and its people. i agree with guy verhofstadt's argument on the sanctions. let me add one more thing, because the sanctions are in place today, they work, but they are not enough. it is incomprehensible and unacceptable that the diamond has been able to escape the dance after nine sanctions packages! the trade in rough diamonds remains to this day an important source of income for the russian war machine, amounting to 4 billion usd annually. it's time to put it on the tenth sanctions package, against alrosa, the most important player in the russian diamond: the ceo on the sanctions list and a complete ban on all forms of russian diamond imports. and also sit down with the g7 countries to make sure that package can be rolled out globally. as an antwerp resident, i am particularly proud of the rich history of diamonds in my city and i want them to play a role in the future. but it's a clean diamond, so it's not a blood diamond from russia.
madam president, dnipro, at least 40 dead, all civilians, including at least five children. it's a war crime. one more? this is not the first time that russia has deliberately targeted civilians in ukraine. irpin, butcha, kramatorsk and so many other horrors that have been going on for almost a year leave no doubt: russia wants to terrorize the population, to make them flee or to discourage them. this is no surprise to those who saw vladimir putin's russia razing grozny or massacring civilians in aleppo. and let's face it, if russia is fully to blame, we have not responded enough, year after year, to russia's war crimes. this time, this war crime must be the crime of excess. there must be a before and after dnipro. we must immediately step up our military aid to ukraine, provide it with more air defence, more tanks, without delay, without absurd arguments. we must also increase the pressure on russia. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to take action in this area. is it true that russian gas is renamed azeri gas and imported into europe? how is it that rt france has started broadcasting from the suburbs of paris again and that elected representatives of this assembly are giving interviews there? and those responsible for these atrocities will have to be tried, from the bottom to the top of the russian chain of command. we owe it to the memory of the victims of dnipro.
madam president, dear commissioner, russia’s brutal actions since 2014 are an absolute violation of international law. mr putin’s inhuman disrespect for human lives requires more than strong declarations condemning his attacks in ukraine. the eu and its member states must coordinate faster and better on the objectives that we, as a union, want to achieve: that is, free ukraine from the russian oppressor and support our ally with all the necessary means at our disposal. how many more attacks must ukraine endure to allow some member states to update their obsolete defence doctrines? central and eastern europe, together with a few other member states, the uk and the us, cannot support alone the heroic ukrainian people and army against the russian threat on behalf of our common values. we need a coordinated answer to put an end to russia’s aggression. and this is why i call for the urgent delivery of the promised heavy weaponry, including armoured vehicles to ukraine.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, maria lebed was 15 years old and had her whole life ahead of her. she lived in a quiet part of dnipro with no military objectives nearby. she died this saturday in the infamous dnipro bombing. why would you do that? because putin and his cronies are terrorists and they're making their war a war of terror. civilians, for them, are targets, in ukraine as yesterday in chechnya or syria. my dear colleagues, for almost a year now, the ukrainian people have been resisting fascism and we support them in this struggle, which is also our own. because yes, the european union is the target of the russian regime. but is our support worth the risk and the stakes? why do you hesitate at every step? why have you been hesitant for so long to provide the much-needed air defense that kiev has been demanding since february 24, 2022? why are you so hesitant today about sending tanks? there are hundreds of leopard 2 tanks in europe that could change the game on the ground: 376 in germany, 353 in greece, 327 in spain, 247 in poland, 200 in finland. you know as well as i do that we'll deliver eventually. so why wait? every day lost counts in human lives in ukraine. we said that defeating putin was our strategic objective, that it was in our vital interest. so it's time to finally act on it.
madam president, why is he hanging so many young people? to scare people, of course. to dissuade men and women, parents and children from taking to the streets to shout their rejection of his regime. but that's not all. if he needs terror so badly, it's because that old man, cornered, with his back to the wall, has no other cards to play. the farthest provinces are as mobilized as the largest cities. the younger ones are just as excited as the older ones. white collar workers are just as much as blue collar workers and, of course, men and women alike. iran wants to live free, in peace and in this century. iran, all of iran has revolted. iran no longer wants you, your regime, your revolutionary guards, your bullshit, your murders. the longer you hang, the shorter your days. because they are numbered, mr khamenei, mr executioner, mr assassin.
on behalf of the renew group. thank you, madam president, and happy birthday! mr president, madam president of the commission, i might perhaps echo the words of the president of the european council, it is common sense to have an action plan for our european industry and, in short, we must work out our response to the new american policy. europe cannot lag behind and the risk is real, the risk is that of relocations and job losses. this was stated, including in this house, at the last plenary session. on the one hand, we have sectors in which we have invested heavily to bring them back to production in europe and to enable us to concentrate our production in europe. on the other hand, industries which are currently relocating to our continent could change their plans. so, cheap energy, a competitive environment, a high level of skills and support for innovation are the foundations of our european industrial success. we must act on all these fronts to avoid, of course, the drop-out. to achieve this objective, which must be the top priority of our action, each measure and each action plan must be carefully calibrated. our group has been making three major proposals for some weeks now and i am pleased, madam president, mr president, that since we have already discussed our proposals, your action plan includes a number of proposals made by the renew europe group. first, we had drafted a law for clean technologies, for competitiveness and for innovation in europe. the law on zero-emission industries is actually a form of implementation of these proposals. we hope that this legislation will, among other things, mark the end of the endless procedures and bureaucracy for our contractors and engineers. three years for a hydrogen project is really not possible anymore. we need to speed up the issuing of permits for renewable energy and production sites. and this competitiveness shock must not only affect projects financed by the european union: it must apply to everyone and in particular - my group is sensitive to this - to smes. another request from the renew europe group, for the last year, was for a european sovereignty fund. we also discussed this with the other groups in the european parliament at the mid-term and we put it in a text. the european financial response must of course be on a par with the measures taken by the americans. it is essential that we do not fragment our single market and we must allow our member states, in particular, to invest in their industries, both large and small, if they so wish. finally, the question of the new global partnerships, which you also raised, madam president. i believe that we must give priority to trade with democracies and arm europe in the event of disputes, especially with china. the key to the success of our european response will be a comprehensive view and i welcome in any case that there is a package of responses. this package of responses, ladies and gentlemen, is of particular importance to my group, because, in order to protect our industry, competition policies, investment, public and private financing and international trade are inseparable from each other. and too often in this house we hear this or that proposal which is the panacea and the miracle cure for all our ills. we believe that action must be taken on all competitiveness indicators and not just on one form of response. and this answer package is a good solution. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we must therefore learn from the past few years. we must succeed in the ecological transition, but how can we do that if we do not produce more on our own soil? 98%, and this is quite a remarkable figure, 98%, of photovoltaic panels cannot be produced in china today, in line with our european environmental policy. the inflation reduction act (ira) therefore presents us with a major challenge. having good ideas is not enough. we must deploy quickly and at the same time a number of policies which you have developed. and i think it is good that the political groups, including those in this house, can commit themselves to adopting these texts before the summer. i also propose that the commission send us these texts as soon as possible, since if there is an emergency, the european union must respond to it with the necessary time. the time needed is to have european public policies as quickly as possible, in response to the ira in particular. we at renew europe will therefore commit ourselves to adopting these texts as soon as possible, for the sake of our international competitiveness policy.
madam president, mr president-in-office, his name is olivier, a baker from the marne, and he has not been paid for months. her name is estelle, a restaurateur in the vaucluse, and she has taken the radical decision to close her establishment. these are the stories of thousands of businessmen all over europe, bakers, butchers, artisans, restaurateurs, traders, who are overwhelmed by the explosion in energy bills: costs multiplied by two, three, four, five, sometimes ten and even putting the key under the door. they do not demand to be kept alive by public aid, but to be able to live from their work with the dignity of those who have dared, risked, undertaken to build a sustainable activity. they demand that they pay for their energy at a fair, regulated price, guaranteed by a strategic state that protects its economic interests. to them, your last-minute grants will be their debt and their taxes tomorrow. for several months now, your refusal to challenge the rules of the european energy market and in particular the artificial price fixing for electricity over gas prices has left our companies open to speculation by global predators. spain and portugal have proved that it is possible to break free. what is at stake here is nothing more or less than the very existence of this france of initiative and effort, of these places of sociality, sharing, conviviality, production which are our bistros, our breweries, our small shops and our workshops, of our know-how and our living heritage, of this art of living which characterizes the european soul. this wall of bankruptcy, we can avoid it. have the courage to break with the europeanist ready-to-think when it is a failure for these thousands of business leaders. their company is their life's work, so let them live.
madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, in 2023 our industries will have an appointment with europe. and in the face of inflation and the energy crisis, europe must be on the move, otherwise our car manufacturers will be moving across the atlantic. it is in asia that our batteries, our photovoltaic panels will continue to be built. the situation, ladies and gentlemen, is brutal but it is very real. the health crisis and the war in ukraine have reminded us all too strongly of how dependent we europeans are on other states in the world. and one thing is certain, none of them are waiting for europe. china has for years been playing its part on the world stage by subsidising its exports. the united states has just launched a vast plan to support the economy to relocate. it is the made in america first, a very attractive plan for american companies, but also for european ones. some european companies have already announced that they are abandoning their projects in france, spain and germany to benefit from this us plan. who could blame them? inflation is weighing on our economy and our companies are making choices that are in their own interests. so how do we give them the means to continue investing in europe? how can we enable them to continue to create jobs in europe? by acting together, fast and strong. an extraordinary impulse is being given today, ladies and gentlemen, by the president of the commission, the commissioner, the states: all are joining the call of the european parliament to strengthen our industries. this call must include more flexibility in state aid so that the rules for regular times do not prevent us from meeting the challenges of extraordinary times. but 30 years after the creation of the single market, which has brought us prosperity and opportunities, we must avoid fragmenting it. in this context, the european sovereignty fund, which we have been calling for for almost a year here in the european parliament, is an absolute necessity to maintain the competitiveness of europe as a whole, but also to establish our strategic autonomy. our ambition must therefore be global, as you said, commissioner, to invest vigorously and without taboos in our own industries, in our health, in our defence, in rare materials, in industrial components, in ecology, in the made in europe. let's not waste that momentum. (speaker agrees to reply to a blue card)
the answer is 'blue card'. if you had listened to me, you would have remembered that i mentioned the question of state aid, but not only that. i firmly believe, and i have been saying this with my group for over a year, that we must speed up the work on the sovereignty fund, which we called for last spring, in order to have coordinated action at the level of the european union, in order to effectively avoid the fragmentation of the internal market. as for the action of the united states and china, we must act, not wait for the decision of the americans. i said, china, the united states don't care what we do. so let us act to protect our jobs and our industries throughout europe.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! poland remains the absolute leader among the member states of the union in terms of the number of irregularities reported. as a country, we reported 1,020 cases in the year we're talking about, 2021. that's fourth in the european union. i cite these figures to show the full effectiveness of the polish system for implementing and monitoring eu funds, and the full cooperation of polish financial institutions with law enforcement authorities, as well as the proper fulfilment of the reporting obligation towards the european commission. although we do not participate in enhanced cooperation within the european public prosecutor's office, many countries that cooperate with the eppo have much worse results in detecting and prosecuting crimes against the eu's finances, and yet the media often portray the situation differently. it shows our country, and it doesn't show the countries that have much worse, concrete results when it comes to financial irregularities against eu funds. i'm not going to point out those countries here. each country knows these results on corruption of eu funds, which are published every year by eurostat or other eu agencies. thank you very much to all those who have contributed to this report.
madam president, dear colleagues, the report that we have at hand here is really a very important one. it’s a yearly exercise, of course, but guides our work in our fight against fraud and corruption as well, to some extent. it’s a huge task because as we know, the member states manage more than 85% of eu expenditure and collect the eu’s traditional own resources. therefore, it’s worth mentioning a couple of things. first of all, the number of cases of fraud and irregularities remained stable in 2021, compared to 2020. however, the total sum involving fraud increased to eur 3.24 billion. this was mostly because there was a limited number of very large cases in some member states. then, of course, it’s good to bear in mind that the scrutiny over spending under the nextgenerationeu recovery package and rrf started at the same time, and that the regulation was adopted in february 2021. therefore, this parliament, and especially the budgetary control committee, should also have a very strong role in the rrf’s governance, including through regular structured dialogues where the commission is invited to discuss the implementation of the rrf, with the commission being required to take into account the views arising therefrom. so, in conclusion, i would say that it is exactly the detailed nature of this report, the protection of the european union’s financial interests and combating fraud, that makes it such a valuable asset. i highly welcome the work of everyone involved in this report.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against fraud and the protection of public money must be a constant concern of both the european union and the member states. unfortunately, if we look at the numbers, we're kind of stalling, because if we look at the causes of fraud in 2021 compared to 2020, they're the same. although we have added an institution with oversight functions, such as the european public prosecutor's office, and it is good that we have added it, the problem is one of efficiency. i think very much that we need to go to prevention and i think the focus needs to be on how to focus manipulation in certain situations where money can be misused, for example, public procurement. it's the same people who win the public procurement. we still don't know where it is, who the final beneficiary is, and we're still debating this in the budget control committee. of course, we have to resolve conflicts of interest and it is good that you have proposed to review, because you, commissioner, said that we have regulations, we have directives, we have procedures, but the results are very important. and i also told the court of auditors when i presented the report, it's not only important for the accountant to be able to justify the money, but we have to see the efficiency of the money invested. finally, i draw particular attention to the major threats posed by crossborder crime and here a solution must be found with the institutions that have responsibility.
madam president, the risks to the financial interests of the european union today are immense, and they are on a par with the colossal sums that are being committed to national recovery plans. in recent years, the union has been strongly committed to consolidating its anti-fraud architecture with the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office. the report we are voting on tomorrow clearly illustrates this positive dynamic. we must continue our efforts to enable this anti-fraud architecture to function fully by means of increased human, financial and technological resources for olaf and the european public prosecutor's office, but also by tackling organised crime and corruption at all levels from all possible angles. work is under way to develop effective rules and tools to combat tax evasion and tax avoidance. in this way we will strengthen confidence in the europe we want, because the financial interests of the union are, let us not forget, above all the interests of european taxpayers and citizens.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, i am going to remind you of a reality which will not please the national assembly here. the reality is that the far right, alongside the jihadists, remains the biggest threat associated with potential terrorist and extremist attacks in europe. i'm not saying that, it's a europol report. in other words, the far right is no less violent than jihadism. and who could argue with that? for more than a decade, our democracies have been facing this threat that was thought to belong to the last century. charleston, charlottesville, christchurch. i'm not sure what you mean. but also in our house. we all remember with horror the massacre committed by anders breivik in norway just over ten years ago - 77 people were killed. in france, with claude sinké, a former candidate of the national front who attempted to burn down the mosque of bayonne in 2019 before shooting at two worshippers. in paris last month, where a man shot members of the turkish community. just two months after lgbti people were shot dead in bratislava at the exit of a bar. ladies and gentlemen, the far right has been carrying out disgusting ideas for decades. these ideas incite hatred and lead to tragedy - or even death. so i say to the epp: stop courting the far right. where you could gain an ally, you would lose your integrity.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, commissioner, last wednesday a libyan man who was illegally on french soil carried out extremely violent knife attacks at gare du nord, injuring several people. during the attack, the attacker shouted "allah akbar", giving his infamous gesture an islamist connotation. for years, terrorism has been proliferating in europe, often financed directly or indirectly by foreign states linked to islamism. the european union is obsessed with far-right terrorism, which is in fact a minority when compared with far-left and islamist terrorism. the reality of the situation is that of the undeniable link between islamist terrorism and the mass immigration we are experiencing. it is this scourge of terrorism that has shaken european democracies, as recalled in the europol report on the situation and trends of terrorism of july 2022. who in this house can seriously suggest that the democratic constitutional order in europe is being endangered by the far right? a term that is also vague, which encompasses everything and anything. perhaps our parliament was wrong in the title of this debate: it wanted to point out the threats posed by islamism and the far left in europe. the latter, the far left, regularly commits violence in demonstrations, especially in france. antifa activists and black blocs are spreading chaos with impunity, attacking the police forces abandoned by their minister. that's the reality that's being denied here. if democracy is faltering in our countries, it is because its representatives are disconnected from the expectations of the citizens. and indeed, the reality experienced by europeans differs from the priorities you have set for yourselves. as islamist terrorism strikes our continent, we are discussing a threat that exists mostly in your imagination. it is time to take off the blinders and open up to the world. the safety of our fellow citizens depends on it.
madam speaker, ladies and gentlemen, january 6, 2021: assault on capitol hill with the blessing of donald trump. october 9, 2021: attack on the headquarters of the cgl, the main italian trade union in rome, architected together with the italian neo-fascist extreme right. 7 december 2022: an attempted coup in germany, engineered by german neo-nazi militants, including some former afd mps, was foiled. january 8, 2023: assault on the brazilian presidential palace and other institutions by bolsonaro's followers. these are not episodes of a dystopian tv series, but dramatic real-world events, linked by a definite thread, a dark thread marked by contempt for democratic rules and the rule of law. the transnational black wire of the far-right networks, which threaten the constitutional order of our institutions, from outside as well as from within the palaces, using fake news and conspiracy theories. the fears of the rise of a certain reactionary right wing and coup d'état were mocked, sometimes even in this house. well, these events that i have mentioned, as well as others, tell us that there is nothing to joke about. we must invest in a culture which rejects any kind of concession to this message, and which is instead an anti-racist, anti-nazi culture for young europeans. we have always been told that as long as they are not committing illegal acts, they cannot be prevented from playing the democratic game. well, i think that threshold has been largely exceeded in too many cases. it is necessary to ban neo-fascist and neo-nazi organisations in europe, not only because they are incompatible with the values of our democracy, but because they are acting to subvert them. i shall fight to ensure that the fundamental anti-fascism of the union is included in the future revision of the treaties. i think that european democracy is not something that is taken for granted or that falls from the sky, but that it must be defended, as other events in recent weeks have shown.
madam president, enough of the underestimation of the danger of the far right. enough of the violence and terrorism of the far right. they're not lone wolves or crazy radicals. they are necessary actors in the reactionary international that is sweeping the world. and these are not isolated cases. the far right is the greatest danger to democracy in europe today. let's get to the causes of this violence. let us point the finger at the accomplices who, with their policies, normalize hate speech, the fuel for far-right terrorism. but let us not forget that authoritarian neoliberalism is the political economy of exclusion, scarcity and hatred: that 'there is not enough for everyone', that 'overpopulation', which fuels the rise of the far right and its violence. the far right is fighting it by rebuilding the bonds of class and community. today more than ever, they won't. (the speaker agrees to reply to an intervention under the 'blue card' procedure)
the answer is 'blue card'. it is a great example of the hate speech that fuels right-wing terrorism. thank you, partner, for demonstrating it in public in front of the rest of the team. by the way, look at your phone and the stickers you have on your phone and then put in the offices of the deputies who do not vote as you like.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, last month we saw the largest anti-terrorist operation in german history. more than 50 suspects were questioned in connection with the planned armed attack on the reichstag, the heart of german parliamentary democracy. it reminds us of what we have read and read in our history books about 1933, when the reichstag also burned and the nazis took power. it also evokes memories of the storming of the capitol and the parallels with the storming of government buildings in brazil in recent weeks are not far off. they have one thing in common. it shows how much our democracy is under pressure. in recent years, the shadowy far-right reichsbürger organization has proliferated enormously. but also the political volatility, the malign foreign interference and the rising online disinformation around us have proliferated. it makes the world we live in one of uncertainty, vulnerability and unpredictability, and it makes us remember more often than we want to be reminded that democracy is not something that is acquired, that for some, political violence is a real option. a worrying development, indeed. any form of extremism across the political spectrum is equally bad. left and right, offline and online. the protection of our constitutional democracies is paramount, as is our support for closer and better cooperation between intelligence services, police and judiciary, both at national and european level, to prevent europe from being threatened from within and from without by destabilisation.
madam president, madam commissioner, trump and bolsonaro have inspired attacks on brazilian and american institutions. the far right is taking root in israel, hungary and sweden, and small groups are planning attacks in france and germany. france accounts for 45% of all arrests for far-right terrorism. the far right is advancing unabated. we are many to denounce it, but too few to fight it. our silence is guilty, our complacency is guilty. we, the parliamentarians, should be the first guarantors of democracy. but what about when the french national assembly elects a far-right politician to head its anti-semitism committee? what can we say today, right here, when the majority political groups give more votes to the far-right candidate than to an environmentalist candidate for vice-president? ladies and gentlemen, each of your compromises represents a great risk for the rule of law in europe. in the face of the terrorist threat, soft defence will never win. we must fight the dangers of the far right. we must act as quickly as possible.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the fascist international is gaining ground everywhere. the latest example is the failed coup attempt in brazil, where thousands of far-right coup plotters stormed the brazilian presidential palace because they refused the election results. closer to home, in germany, the far right is trying to storm the bundestag. in france, far-right terrorists are killing kurds in the heart of paris. the similarities with europe between the two world wars are disturbing. everywhere the extreme right expresses the same hatred of democracy, the same hatred of the constitutional order, the same xenophobic violence. and i am very, very worried when i see the shift from the traditional right, the republican right to the extreme right, whether in sweden, italy, france, with the victory of eric ciotti in the republicans. to defeat the far right, declarations of intent are no longer enough, moralizing postures are no longer enough. what is needed is to build an alternative political project through action, break resignation and change everyday life.
on behalf of the band the left. mr. speaker, in july, when the uber files were released, the immediate reaction from uber spokesmen was to say: circle around, there's nothing to see. all this is ancient history. yet these revelations confirm what we have seen in this european parliament for the past three years, namely the way uber and the platforms are trying to influence the decisions of legislators in order to write the law themselves. so yes, i say it, because yes, i have seen it, the lobbying of uber and platforms is still relevant. and why is it still relevant? because, it must be said, he has the complicity of meps, meps who are strangely absent today from this debate and who spend their time parroting the platforms' arguments, who are putting pressure on the negotiating teams for the directive on the rights of workers on the platforms. members of this parliament who are prepared to lock themselves in the halls of this european parliament, to be stuffed with platforms, refusing the presence of workers, or even insulting them when they dare to invite themselves. ladies and gentlemen, parliament must confirm its position on this directive. this vote will unmask the masks and answer an important question: for whom are we driving? who is this parliament for? for the platforms or for the workers? i am counting on you, colleagues. i'm counting on us. let us show that this european parliament is for the citizens and the workers and that no, we will not give in to the lobbying of uber and the platforms.
mr president, commissioner and colleagues, one of the central arguments, i think, that’s been ventilated by the ecr and id is that search and rescue carried out by ngos is a pull factor for irregular population movement, and this is sadly also repeated by frontex, who say that this has been done unintentionally. however, research has been done which demonstrates this is not true, based on data going back to 2014, carried out in the european university institute. the research found, and i quote, ‘no relationship between the presence of ngos at sea and the number of migrants leaving libyan shores’. the same holds true in the eastern mediterranean, in spain and in morocco, where there was a 50% increase in population movement despite the absence of ngo boats. in fact, the only thing that changed when ngos were not present was that the fatality rate increased. i think what we should do in this parliament is revisit the resolution of mr lopez aquila, and to wipe from the record of this parliament and this mandate that shameful vote in 2019.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must never again allow atrocities to be committed in europe. i'll never do that again. this has never been embodied in the construction of europe, where we have raised to the highest level the values of human dignity, freedom, equality, fraternity and solidarity. it is a shame to see how much these founding values and european law are being flouted today. women, children and men are dying at our borders every day, and european leaders do not seem to care a bit. no one can say he doesn't know. as in the darkest periods of our history, we seek to intimidate and harass unselfish and courageous citizens. yet humanitarian aid is only filling in the gaps left by member states. they're just people, human traffickers, certainly not criminals. instead of honoring these humanitarians who defend our values, we criminalize them. commissioner, it is time to combat this climate of impunity and the sickening rhetoric and fantasies of the far right. it is time we stopped letting our policies and values be dictated by racists and xenophobes. will we finally take concrete action instead of talking about it to prevent these tragedies from happening again? we urgently need a humanitarian and political upsurge.
author. mr president, i have 38. it has been 38 days since 120,000 armenians in nagorno-karabakh were cut off from the world, food and medicine were running out, families were separated. 38 days, but in truth, so much more, that words no longer make sense. russia claims to be keeping the peace in the latchino corridor. in reality, its soldiers are inert and for years the only thing russia has maintained is a poisoned conflict. azerbaijan insists that there is no blockade, just the spontaneous presence of environmental activists. is that why the army came to their aid? president aliyev claims to treat the people of nagorno-karabakh as he treats all the people of azerbaijan. but what part of his territory does he blockade his people from? he just said: those who do not want to live in nagorno-karabakh as citizens of azerbaijan can leave. so it is more than a blockade that he imposes, more than a blackmail that he engages in, it is an ethnic cleansing that he aspires to. and what are we europeans doing? i didn't say anything. worse than nothing, actually. a pitiful statement by the european union's special envoy reassuring baku that our observers have nothing to do with what is happening in the latchino corridor. i'm ashamed of you. i am ashamed that the president of the commission has described as a reliable partner a country which is knowingly organising a humanitarian catastrophe. i watch the leaders of the european union imitating the three chinese monkeys, eager to see nothing, hear nothing and say nothing. let us not be mistaken, ladies and gentlemen, these are not symbols of our wisdom, but only of our cowardice.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, we were all shocked by the violent attacks against the heart of brazil’s democracy on 8 january. european and world leaders were quick to condemn this unacceptable act of political violence. in a statement on behalf of the 27 member states, we expressed our solidarity with president lula and our full support for the democratic institutions of brazil. last tuesday, high representative borrell also had the opportunity to speak with foreign minister vieira and to express our support. the eu has reiterated its trust in brazil’s democracy and in the strengths of its institutions. our conviction is that they will prevail over violence and extremism. the attack on brazil’s core institutions did not start last sunday. regrettably, it is the outcome of years of political polarisation, attacks against the judiciary, against the free press and against civil society, further amplified by social media. this is by no means limited to brazil. this is a problem for all our democracies and beyond. we are committed to stepping up our strategic partnership with brazil and to joining forces in the defence and promotion of democracy, rule of law and human rights. we are ready to deepen our cooperation on digital development, including in the field of regulating social media and the fight against disinformation. these efforts will not be sufficient on their own and need to go hand in hand with addressing lasting inequalities, which are one of the root causes of polarisation. government, parliament, civil society and businesses each have a role to play in this. while we applaud the efforts to build unity across the political spectrum, it would be a mistake to assume that we can now go back to business as usual in brazil and elsewhere. uniting around democracy requires more than simply condemning violence and extremism. our political forces carry the responsibility to prevent radicalisation and defend democratic processes on a daily basis, fostering a culture of dialogue and compromise. protecting democracy will clearly be a long—term challenge that will call for continuous cooperation with brazilian democratic institutions and civil society. all of europe’s institutions need to stand together. we highly value the role of the european parliament in defending democratic values both in the eu and abroad, including through your parliamentary diplomacy. we want to thank you for organising this debate and we look forward to working with you in reactivating our strategic partnership with brazil.
president. - mr president, today we are making a little bit of history. for the first time in decades, the european parliament is debating morocco's human rights violations. the list of human rights violations has become long, especially since morocco cracked down on the peaceful hirak protests in the northern rif region. and it's not going to stop. omar radi, a brilliant journalist who exposed the corruption of the moroccan government, has been jailed for six years, including for his reporting on the hirak rif. and he's not the only one. nasser zefzafi, the leader of the hirak, and other political prisoners have even been tortured in prison. their crime? stand up for more jobs, better schools, and good health care. and it doesn't stop at the border. morocco is persecuting and intimidating courageous activists right into our european union. even here in this parliament, representatives of the moroccan authorities have shamelessly walked out of the door in recent days. and that's in the middle of a corruption scandal. it's too bizarre for words! the demands in our resolution are very tough. now stop this intimidation and slander against journalists, human rights activists and the diaspora. release political prisoners immediately. freedom for nasser zefzafi, freedom for omar radi. this is the end of the road. the european union - and my country, the netherlands - must understand very clearly that it is not migration agreements, not the blackmail by rabat, but human rights that are the basis for relations with morocco. today marks a new chapter for morocco and for europe. the days of rabat getting away with anything are over.
author. – madam president, we call upon the authorities of morocco to free the independent investigative journalist omar radi and stop restricting media freedom. according to the annual report of reporters without borders, the moroccan authorities control most media outlets and suppress freedom of opinion and independent reporting. morocco is ranked 135th out of a total of 180 countries, according to the world press freedom index. the methodology followed by moroccan authorities against its critics is completely unacceptable. morocco’s intelligence services use pegasus to wiretap investigative reporters and then launch legal proceedings against them using or even perverting private data. it is no coincidence that most critics of the moroccan regime have been condemned for alleged sexual crimes after carefully staged trials that characterise authoritarian regimes. moroccan authorities have also acquired the habit of trying to influence members of the european parliament and our decision-making process by means that refer to qatargate. in the interests of cooperation between eu and morocco, we call upon the moroccan authorities to immediately release from prison omar radi, other journalists, as well as all prisoners of conscience.
author. madam president, more than twenty years and a corruption scandal like moroccogate have had to pass before we can talk about human rights in this house. until now, morocco has been the spoiled child of european foreign policy. only in this way can europe turn a blind eye to the repression of protests in the rif, in which hundreds of people like nasser zefzafi were arrested and tortured for demanding the most basic rights, and to the criminalization of journalists who denounce this situation or the corruption of the moroccan regime, such as the case of journalist omar radi, which is a great example of how the moroccan regime imprisons and spies on independent or critical journalists with programs like pegasus. europe cannot continue to be an accomplice to the violation of human rights and freedom of information or to the occupation of the sahara. we must therefore demand the release of omar radi and the other imprisoned journalists, the cessation of the judicial harassment of the spanish journalist ignacio cembrero and the release of political and prisoners of conscience, especially saharawis and riffians. special mention should be made of the sakharov prize finalist nasser zefzafi. we must demand that freedom of expression and of the press be respected scrupulously and that european funds be made conditional on respect for human rights and not on immigration control. and to take the same precautionary measures with morocco as with qatar until the alleged plot to interfere in this parliament is judicially clarified. today we can send a message to the moroccan people: that beyond economic or geostrategic calculations, human rights, freedom of the press and democracy in morocco matter and that those who struggle for this in morocco will never be alone.
on behalf of the s&d group, president of the european parliament and let me say, the s&d group in particular will continue to denounce human rights violations within europe, worldwide and thus also in morocco. the conviction and imprisonment of omar radi is not an isolated case. he fits in a string of politically motivated convictions targeting human rights activists, journalists and leaders of the hirak rif. finalist for the sakharov prize nasser zefzafi and i had a small part, along with many colleagues, in getting him nominated is still locked up in a moroccan prison as a political prisoner today after so many years. he was also responsible for the deaths of at least two people in the rif region. that is unacceptable. i call on my colleagues in the commission to bring up the human rights situation and the unconditional release of all political prisoners, including nasser zefzafi and omar radi, in every conversation with the moroccan authorities. respect for human rights is a cornerstone of eu-morocco relations.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, omar radi, hajar and soulaimane raissouni, taoufik bouachrine, these are just some of the names of those whose rights to fair justice are violated in morocco for their work as journalists. allegations of espionage, money laundering, rape and adultery reserved for women: human rights watch has shown that this is a veritable arsenal of repressive techniques that is systematically used by the moroccan authorities to silence any dissenting voices. the moroccan state has tried to refute the arguments in our resolution. what's the matter? should we believe them and throw away the 150-page report by human rights watch, reporters without borders, the committee to protect journalists, the moroccan association for human rights, the moroccan feminist association khmissa and amnesty international? i repeat, guaranteeing freedom and pluralism of the press is vital to our democracy. moroccan people, journalists, human rights defenders, i am with you in this fight for freedom and, as soolking sings: "freedom, we are not afraid of it".
on behalf of the id group. (start of the intervention off the mic) ... this speech saying that we are gathering to condemn the practices of a country that violates human rights, oppresses protest voices and participates in the destabilization of africa. but then that would mean that we are talking about algeria here. the european left never condemns algeria and the european union passes it by hoping for its gas. instead, we are debating morocco, which is one of the pivots of our strategic partnership in africa. what's in that resolution? the claim that mr. radi is not a rapist. like all of you, i don't know. however, unlike the majority of this house, i do not consider that the decisions of the moroccan judiciary, or the accusations of the rape victim, are worth less than the statements of amnesty international or human rights watch. the recent example of the practices of the ngo fight impunity should have alerted each of us to the credit we systematically give to ngos. like states, they have their interests and their limitations. if mr radi is the victim of a plot, it is up to his lawyers and the moroccan people to prove it, and it is not up to the european parliament to wipe its feet on the moroccan justice system.
madam president, morocco is experiencing an unprecedented decline. i denounce the violation of freedom of the press in morocco and we call for the release of mr omar radi, the moroccan journalists, nasser zefzafi, the political prisoners of the rif and the political prisoners of western sahara. we denounce the constitution of intimidating speech, torture and lack of guarantees for prisoners. freedom of the press in morocco does not exist. in recent months, morocco's secret services have arrested journalists, bloggers, rappers and social media users who were reacting to the crackdown on dissent and free press. i express my full solidarity and support to the support committee and the associations defending human rights in morocco, as well as to the spanish journalist ignacio cembrero. the style of morocco's dictatorial regime is corruption, espionage, interference and intimidation of free voices, tactics that touch europe at its heart. freedom for the petitioners, freedom for the journalists. end of impunity in morocco.
member of the commission. – madam president, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms underpins the strong and strategic partnership the eu has built with morocco over time and which we are committed to developing even further. the eu and morocco have put in place a trustworthy and open dialogue. human rights features regularly on the agenda of our discussions, and we do not shy to express our concerns to the moroccan partners. in particular, freedom of expression, media freedom and the protection of journalists and human rights defenders are an area where we express concern to our moroccan partners whenever appropriate. this was also the case most recently during the visit of high representative borrell to rabat on 5 and 6 january, where the point was raised with the minister for foreign affairs, mr bourita. as the high representative stressed in his press conference, the eu morocco partnership is based on values. we attach great importance to the protection of fundamental rights, human rights defenders, fundamental rights such as freedom of the press and freedom of expression and we work together with morocco on this subject. the work of national and international non—governmental organisations remains therefore of critical importance to assess the situation on the ground in these areas. the eu takes good note of the fact that some ngos continue to report that more needs to be done to create an enabling environment for the full exercise of freedom of expression. we also pay special attention to the need to ensure full respect for due process guaranteed for all. specific institutional fora are the most appropriate framework to raise in a spirit of constructive criticism and further improvement the situation of human rights in morocco. we have created, under the framework of the eu morocco association agreement, a subcommittee on democracy and human rights, which meets regularly. we discuss the principles, but when relevant and useful, we do not refrain from referring to individual cases. this structure complements our continuous engagement, both in brussels and in rabat, through our delegation, with civil society organisations, human rights defenders and relevant international actors to promote and consolidate respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. morocco’s membership of the united nations human rights council in january this year will provide additional opportunities to explore areas of joint cooperation in this field. let me conclude by reiterating the eu’s commitment, in morocco as everywhere in the world, to media freedom and the protection of journalists in compliance with international human rights obligations. we will continue our efforts to ensure that all citizens can benefit from the rights guaranteed by their constitution and the full respect and implementation of the laws.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european fisheries fund is a good one, but it is not enough to have a european fisheries fund. the options for centralising the common fisheries policy, the architecture of successive fisheries funds and other regulations, which are not adapted to the needs and reality of the sector, have constituted an increasingly tight curtain, which is slowly suffocating small-scale fishing. while the european union's policy has for decades been in favour of large-scale fishing, of concentration in the sector, even opening the door to the privatisation of resources, which we categorically reject, the sector is facing increasing difficulties. limited access to funds: over the years, only 7% of the funds for the sector have reached small-scale fisheries. if we look strictly at operations relating to vessels, 25%, a quarter of the funds for three quarters of the fleet at the same time, the least capitalised. high bureaucratic burden, low rates of co-financing, need for advance payments, limited range of eligible operations: problems to which the emff does not respond, which are highlighted and which require change. ageing of the fleet and crews: the commission has not been able to finance the renewal of the fleet for more than 20 years, and with an average age of over 32 years, the fleet is in many cases obsolete, increasing the risks and costs of the operation. we need money for the renewal and modernisation of the fleet in this segment, without any pruritus or false concessions that block this support. low incomes: the sector, and in particular its professionals, is faced with low incomes from fishing, which is largely due to low production prices. the intermediaries win, the producer and the consumer lose. the fair and adequate distribution of value added across the value chain of the sector is needed by reducing intermediation margins, improving the first sale price and containing prices paid at final consumption. increased production costs: as in other sectors, the segment was confronted with substantial increases in production costs, particularly in fuels, with negative impacts on revenues. fuel support for this segment, including through the emff, is urgently needed. to reject them, particularly in the present context, is to contribute even more to calling into question this segment - already potentially more sustainable, not only from a social but also from an environmental point of view. steps are also needed to counteract the centralization of local management, which takes account of the reality and the complexity and enormous diversity of small-scale coastal artisanal fishing between states, and even at national level, in their fleets, target species, fishing gear, consumption preferences and fish consumed per inhabitant. a management of proximity, which gives greater prominence to states, within the framework of their sovereignty, runs counter to the logic of increasing subordination to the market and concentration in the sector, by setting objectives for a fisheries policy which must include management of resources based on adequate scientific knowledge, ensuring the public supply of fish to the population, in the context of food security and sovereignty, and the development of coastal communities, the enhancement and social and labour recognition of professions linked to fishing, promoting employment and improving the living conditions of fishermen and the socioeconomic viability of the sector. these, among others, are some of the ways and measures that the sector is calling for and that are needed, and that the report seeks to point out. while noting the absence of the responsible commissioner from this discussion, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for the good cooperation which has enabled us, even if on some subjects we have not gone as far as we should, to incorporate in this text a set of important recommendations on small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing. it is now important to put them into practice.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta lopes, and the shadow rapporteurs for this report. the commission welcomes the european parliament’s contribution on the important topic of small—scale fisheries in the eu and future perspectives. as you rightly recall in your report, the small—scale and coastal fishing fleet represents nearly 75% of all fishing vessels registered in the eu and nearly half of the employment in the fishing sector. this clearly shows the important socio—economic role of this sector in european coastal communities and the outermost regions. your report calls for a broader definition of small—scale and coastal fisheries in a horizontal piece of legislation, like the common fisheries policy. due to the size of the sector, the geographic differences across europe and differences in the type of fishing conducted, this would be a difficult task. the existing specific references in the european maritime fisheries and aquaculture fund already facilitate access to eu funding for small—scale fisheries, while the references in the control regulation are specific to control needs. i agree with your draft report that small scale unfortunately often also means small voice in the value chain and in relation to other stakeholders. i also agree that a large part of the solution lies in a better collective organisation of small—scale operators to have a more collective weight and a louder voice. this is why the commission adopted the rules for the advisory councils in 2022 to ensure more participation of small—scale and coastal fisheries. this is also the reason why the commission strongly encourages member states under the european maritime and fisheries fund, as well as the new european maritime fisheries and aquaculture fund, to support collective organisation of producers, organisations and fisheries local action groups. i want to underline in this context that member states have the possibility to provide preferential rates of support under the new emfaf, and they should use this possibility. support can also be applied for the installation of storage, freezing and refrigeration infrastructure on small—scale vessels as long as they comply with the conditions for vessel modifications, as defined in the regulation on the european maritime fisheries and aquaculture fund. however, and here i need to be clear, the commission cannot agree with establishing new criteria in relation to the fishing capacity. in most member states, there is available capacity within the capacity ceilings set by the common fisheries policy, and this could very well be used to increase the capacity of vessels in order to improve safety, living and working conditions on board or for more energy efficient propulsion systems. again, our fund foresees financial support here. so, the commission could not agree more with your report that young fishers need to be attracted to this important economic sector and that upgrading skills and training play a crucial role here. in this context, the financial support available must be pointed out again, and i would like to encourage member states to use it. we have taken careful note also of the other proposals contained in your report to improve the situation of small—scale and coastal fishers who are indeed part of europe’s fishing and maritime heritage. the commission will carefully examine them. but my main message today is that the commission fully supports all initiatives to strengthen the role of small—scale and coastal fishers in parallel to our continuous and joint efforts to further reduce the environmental impact of those fisheries. i thank you for your attention. i look forward to hearing your views. i gave you the message of my colleague commissioner sinkevičius, of course, but everything you will say will be duly noted, and i will pass your message to him.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, madam commissioner, i am very pleased that we are having this debate, even at this hour and it is the last item on the agenda. and you know why? because many people talk about small-scale fishing, but when it comes to the real thing, when measures and decisions have to be taken to help this fleet, which is so important for many coastal areas, the facts are empty words. i have always defended the obvious: that small-scale fishing has specific characteristics and unique needs. and that is why we have asked the member states, without needing to come into conflict with any other fisheries, to take account of the needs of small-scale fisheries. we also envisage special support for this fishery in the new european maritime, fisheries and aquaculture fund, for which i was rapporteur. there are arguments, legal provisions too. it just takes the will to make it effective. why is it that fishermen are still denied the opportunity to fish better, not more? why can't we finance the modernisation of an outdated and unsafe fleet, especially in the outermost regions, with a view to improving safety, living conditions on board and energy efficiency? why is this fleet, which is also the most sustainable fleet in existence, not taken into account when allocating quotas, such as for bluefin tuna or tuna? commissioner, the fishermen are waiting for answers. the fishermen's associations, which play a key role and are hoping to receive some form of financial support, as are the producer organisations, are also waiting for them. i welcome this report, which not only contains a sound diagnosis of the problems facing the small-scale fishing fleet, but also proposes immediate, significant and effective measures which will also allow fishermen to earn more. commissioner, you have a new opportunity on the table. do not let the fishermen down, who need our full support now more than ever.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i would first of all like to welcome the work of the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on this report, which is important. we know that, because of the nature of man, work at sea has always been more difficult than work on land. it is no coincidence that fishing is considered a high-risk activity. high risk activity, especially for these small scale coastal vessels, as their size makes them particularly vulnerable, especially when the activity takes place under adverse weather conditions. in this context, the coordinated development of policies and measures aimed at mitigating the risks of the activity, increasing the safety and comfort of fishermen on board, while seeking to develop technological solutions that allow small vessels to adapt to the requirements of reducing the carbon footprint, is essential. this is the ideal scenario, but the reality is that because of their size and the rules of rough-hewn buoyancy, small-scale vessels today can hardly provide safe and comfortable spaces on board. and that translates into obvious risks for your fishermen. the limitation of gross tonnage for these vessels therefore needs to be rethought and adapted to the reality of the sector, the need to improve safety and working conditions for fishermen, the need to accommodate technical changes more compatible with the environmental sustainability of the vessels, and the very need of the small-scale fishing industry to attract something so difficult but so important, namely the new generations of male and female fishermen.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this report contains solutions or possibilities for solutions - and thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for having set them out - to the various aspects of small-scale coastal fishing and the challenges it faces. but, in all honesty, this report should be a self-criticism of what is happening, of what we have been doing for years on small-scale coastal fishing. besides, you communists know what self-criticism is. so we should have gone further. in fact, it is a pale self-criticism of reality. the reality is that we have made the lives of small-scale coastal fishermen absolutely impossible. we have accumulated regulations. when you look at the tons of paperwork they have to fill out, the tons of regulations they have to read, well, you have to be a senior to understand things. quotas, licenses, zero waste, no waste. that's what we're going to do. you have mentioned, madam commissioner, access to the fund. but it's a joke. this is a joke. i want to know and i will ask the european commission to tell us what proportion of the emff, the previous fund, was allocated to small-scale coastal fishing. the reality is that it's inaccessible. the guys, they're all alone on their boat. what are they gonna spend their time filing files that go on for pages and pages? i am very angry because i was given the management of these european funds for fisheries in my region. it was impossible to do. our colleague bijoux will speak about what is happening overseas. what do we do overseas? i went to guadeloupe. i went to reunion. i saw those fishermen who didn't understand why they were putting their heads under the water so much. you're talking about freezing the products of coastal fishing. but then again, commissioner, i'm sorry. tell your colleague that, too. these products, which have a high added value, are not frozen. it doesn't make sense. i'm sorry to say. the commission is wrong. it's time to wake up and get out of the dogma we've had for years. because small-scale coastal fishing is what keeps our coastlines alive and there is no question of us taxing it.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened to you. we all agree here that small-scale artisanal fishing is essential for the life of our coastal areas and for the food security of our continent. we agree that small-scale fishermen must be defended, that they should receive a larger share of fishing quotas and that they should be more involved in decision-making processes. but when i scratch a little bit under the veneer, when i read the report in its details, i begin to seriously doubt your intentions. how can we claim to defend small-scale fishermen and at the same time ask for the definition of small-scale fishing to be extended to include vessels over 12 metres? if we do that, the funding from feampa which is currently reserved for small-scale coastal fishing would be totally diluted and there would be only crumbs for small-scale fishing. how can we claim to defend small-scale fisheries without tackling the first threat to them: industrial fishing? when an industrial vessel passes by and ravages an entire fishing area, the small fishermen, who can no longer go fishing elsewhere, are the first victims. so today i am thinking of those fishermen who set up short-circuits to sell their products at a fair price. those who attacked the french state to obtain a fair distribution of the bluefin tuna quotas, the anglers of the pointe de bretagne who demand a period of biological rest for the bar and those who fought to ban electric fishing and who are now fighting for a moratorium on demersal fishing.
madam president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, as a fisherman, i am particularly sensitive to the problem of small-scale, artisanal, traditional and sustainable fishing, as it is practised in the five overseas departments. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur for her very useful report. i would like to recall that on 21 april 2017, the european parliament adopted an own-initiative report calling on the commission to put in place measures for the renewal of the traditional fishing fleet in the outermost regions. on 28 february 2022, the commission finally authorises france to set up a state aid scheme to finance this renewal. in this five-year period, martinique has gone from 1,100 to 450 traditional fishermen. this downward trend is also seen in the other overseas departments. the truth is that our traditional fishing, celebrated for its virtues on the fishery resource or its limited environmental impact, is agonizing. of course, the failure to renew the fleet is not the only factor: the difficulty of the trade and its low attractiveness, the lack of training and the ageing of fishermen, the weakness of self-financing and access to credit, illegal fishing, pollution of coastal waters with chlordecone, sargassum that destroys engines in the west indies and the poor organization of the sector in some territories also contribute to the disappearance of this activity. it's important for me to say that today. i would also like to point out another problem, which is fundamental. the same european policies are applied in the ors as elsewhere, particularly with regard to overfishing, whereas in traditional fishing, everyone knows that there are none. so in conclusion, two minutes, five seconds, i want to say that given its weight in local economies and in food habits, traditional overseas fishing must be given special attention, madam rapporteur, it is important to me. it should be seen for what it is: a structuring activity in these territories. so let us help our overseas fishermen, let us allow them to live with dignity and their trade. (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, we have just finished the year 2022, which the united nations general assembly declared as the international year of artis­tisanal fisheries and aquaculture. but i'm afraid small-scale fishing has little to celebrate. the brexit and covid crises have been joined by the war against ukraine, with its impact on inflation and fuel prices. i think that the report we are discussing today provides a fair diagnosis of the problems facing europe's large and numerous artisanal fisheries. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr pimenta lopes, for tackling issues such as the safety and habitability of ships, the necessary revision of the definition of the small-scale coastal fleet and the unfair abolition of subsidised diesel. i am also pleased that the report insists - again thanks to an amendment tabled by the popular group - that fishermen's associations, which are so important in spain, should be given legal recognition and financial support on an equal footing with producer organisations. i hope that the european commission will incorporate our proposals into its evaluation report on the common fisheries policy. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to conclude with a reference to ribeira, an important fishing village in my autonomous community of galicia. i visited her recently with counselor do mar. there we were able to see again the strength of their market and the importance of the fishing sector for the whole region. the mayor of ribeira, manuel ruiz, often says that without fishing we are nothing. and the european union and other public administrations must make a determined commitment to small-scale fishing as a substantial backbone of the coastal communities dependent on fishing.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to welcome this new report on small-scale fisheries. they play an enormous role in our local communities: they employ local crews; they multiply what they bring into the economy through selling seafood in the local restaurants; they enhance tourism and preserve a culture and a tradition that is very important. they’ve faced many challenges in recent years through covid, brexit and the energy crisis – no different than any other business. but this cfp review offers an opportunity for small fisheries, particularly under article 17, where we can ensure that small fisheries get resources and indeed quotas specifically allocated toward them. in relation to ireland, the abundance of bluefin tuna that’s in irish waters and virtually the minimum amount of it that is collected by irish fisheries – we need to ensure that international trawlers aren’t reaping the benefit of that, that it comes to the local, indigenous community that has been hit so hard by the impact of brexit. if you look also in relation to the norwegian situation, where norwegian fisheries are looking to access irish waters – 400 000 tonnes of fisheries – we need to address this. irish fisheries have a tiny percentage compared to that, and this needs to be addressed. small-scale fisheries represent 76% of the fleet. they represent 50% of the jobs. and yet they only catch 5.8% percent of the fish. they are the least damaging environmentally and they need to be regarded and supported, as do fisheries in general in ireland, which have been so badly impacted by brexit.
madam president, madam commissioner, once again i am here to denounce the appalling working conditions of fishermen in the overseas territories. we cannot talk about fishing in europe without saying that our fishermen are europeans. they are not big industrialists with big boats, they are artisans with small boats, with equipment that is out of date. they have nothing to do with the pirates who ravage our oceans. our collective responsibility is to protect them, to accompany them. so we must put an end to this unbearable game of ping-pong between brussels and paris, where everyone is shooting at each other. it is intolerable that a lack of administrative control puts the lives of our seamen at risk, discourages our young people who would like to take over and weakens an artisanal sector that is essential to our food autonomy. so we must immediately authorize, launch and implement the renewal of the fleets of small fishing vessels in our overseas countries. this is an absolute emergency.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much for your intervention and comments. it was very interesting for me to listen to you all. i took very good note on everything you said. let me say first a few words on the future perspectives for our small-scale and coastal fishers. ensuring generational renewal of well-trained fishers is essential and will be one of the key tasks we will need to address jointly in the coming years, and will only succeed if the sector and in particular the general working environment is perceived as attractive, and if hard working conditions and especially safety are improved. through the european maritime and fisheries fund and the new european maritime fisheries and aquaculture fund we are offering support to improve the working conditions on board, while of course respecting the capacity limits of the vessels and we encourage member states to use this support. there is also a wide offer available to promote training and skills to enable fishers to fish in a safer environment. this is a very important aspect, especially at the beginning of our european year of skills, and can be supported in a very broad context beyond the fisheries funds – i’m thinking in particular of the european social fund+, erasmus+, the recovery and resilience facility and the just transition fund. honourable members, small-scale coastal fisheries are part of the backbone of our european fisheries and our coastal communities, and they are a strong part of our cultural identity. indeed, it is our joint responsibility to make them fit for the future and our common fisheries policies, along with the eu funds available, will continue to support them. thank you once again for this debate and for your important contribution to our common task.
the rapporteur. madam president, at the end of the debate, which i appreciate, let me highlight some more elements and recommendations of the report. the defence or creation of markets of origin by promoting short marketing circuits, enhancing fish and thus fishermen's incomes. in the face of loss of income, the creation of mechanisms for compensating wages, counting them as actual working time for the purposes of retirement and other social security rights. the reintroduction of the fisheries component of posei and the creation of a posei-transport to support the outermost regions in the face of the increased costs of insularity. the simplification of emff procedures, reducing the bureaucratic burden and changing the financing process to a system of pre-financing, ensuring the use of the funding ceilings for eligible measures which should, in any case, be extended to this segment. support for the replacement of engines, including power increase where duly justified, as a means of improving the safety and operation of vessels. the reintroduction of storage, freezing and refrigeration support possibilities with a view to the full exploitation of all fish, ensuring public supply and supplying the food processing industry. let me end by making a few suggestions to the commissioner: it is essential to get rid of dogmas and simplifications such as an inadequate concept of small-scale fishing or correlations between fishing power and capacity, which cannot be directly verified nor applied equally to each vessel. the commissioner must break out of inertia, redefine priorities, go to the ground not to take photographs, but to get to know the reality of the sector's problems, to hear why the funds are not reaching those who need them most. we can say to exhaustion that there is money in the emff which can be used by small-scale fisheries, but if small-scale fisheries cannot access it, it is useless. you have to face reality. the reduction of the environmental impact can also be achieved, and must be achieved, at the expense of fleet renewal, which this commission rejects. the report makes many recommendations that small-scale fisheries are calling for. what is important now is that the commission and the member states take steps to implement them. that's what it takes.
in writing. in my committee on development, i have repeatedly spoken in favour of small-scale fishing. in third countries, food security and the sustainability of coastal communities depend on it. ineffective european fisheries agreements, and especially illegal fishing by third-country vessels (especially chinese), are contributing to the depletion of fisheries resources in some african countries and to a wave of migration, which is currently reaching peaks. and the knowledge of the sea routes makes it all the more tempting for fishermen to go out to sea. it is also natural for me to promote small-scale fishing within the european union. i therefore welcome a text which is clearly socially sensitive and which rightly denounces the harmful impact of offshore wind. in france, offshore wind has unfortunately taken off, as the launch of the saint-nazaire wind farm at the end of last year demonstrated. the promotion of short-circuits and a more favourable definition of small-scale fishing are perfectly consistent with this vision. thank you.
madam president, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. i am convinced that 30 years of the european single market shows its necessity and also its meaning for citizens. for 30 years we will enjoy not only concrete economic benefits but also other synergistic benefits from this single internal market. it's not just jobs, it's better access to markets, better competitiveness in world markets. let's be honest, made in europe is a very good brand, it has a good sound in the world. i think that citizens are also more aware of the concrete benefits of the european union, of our common union, and of their own lives, thanks to the single internal market. what is threatening this union the single internal market ? that it's enough on its own, that we don't need to go deeper into the rules? that's nonsense, of course. we also need to deepen the enforceability of the rule of law and the rule of law.
madam president, i also supported this draft report on my own initiative. online games are a very important part of the creative industry. the czech republic is one of the world's leading countries. it is also important to appreciate the work of all those involved in this part of the creative industry. it's important to protect their rights, that is, both the rights of the individual rights holders, i.e. the companies, and the individual creators. i think this report illustrates that very well. it is also important to protect consumers, which is the focus of this report. i was very happy to support it because it also protects consumers against unfair competition practices. of course, on-demand services also very often check the enforceability of european law. how the consumer can exercise his rights, for example, to get a refund if he is dissatisfied with the service he has received. it is also important to protect against addiction. and i think that the report covers it all. that's why i supported her.
madam president, allow me to explain why i supported the european parliament's report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy today. these are, of course, very important, crucial areas for the european union to tackle. and the report contains a number of findings and tasks that the european union is fulfilling. the european parliament reaffirmed the european union's determination to respond swiftly and decisively to russia's aggressive war against ukraine and called on the member states to maintain the level of support. parliament supports the council's decision to increase the budget of the european peace facility by eur 2 billion and proposes the creation of a separate envelope for ukraine to guarantee adequate support. parliament stressed the need to make full use of the eu's available resources and called on the member states to make full use of the permanent structured cooperation (pesco). these are all important reasons that led me to support it.
madam president, during today’s vote, i supported the annual report on the common foreign and security policy. however, i believe that because we are today facing serious geopolitical threats, we can no longer afford to be spending time discussing empty concepts or engage in unnecessary turf battles between the eu and nato. instead, we must put all efforts into concrete action, and to do this in lockstep with our transatlantic allies, and ensure that eu and nato work together to address the pressing challenges in accordance with their respective competences.
madam president, the past year has brought with it clearly significant political and security challenges. we are witnessing a regular war on the european continent caused by russian aggression. i think it's important to say that there is a paralysis of international law and we are in this report unequivocally supporting ukraine and i think we are also supporting our security policy, our defence budget policy and also our security alliances. in the past, i have supported changes in european politics, in defence policy, i was even in favour of the establishment of a regular european army. i must confess that after the accession of sweden and finland, i am wondering whether this is really the right way forward, whether it is not better to deepen the alliance within nato, i.e. the berlin treaty, which we have already concluded, and therefore to work together on what is already working. it seems to me that cooperation between nato and the eu can be deeper and better.
madam president, i also supported this report for the period 2022 on the implementation of the security and defence policy, because it speaks very clearly about what steps have been taken over the past year and what needs to be done. he calls the aggression against ukraine a brutal aggression by russia against ukraine and clearly describes the genocide committed against ukrainians. parliament called on the european union to step up its efforts to assist ukraine, including financial, humanitarian and military assistance. in this context, it is important that the report calls on the german chancellor scholz to initiate a european consortium of relevant european countries to supply ukraine with leopard 2 main battle tanks. at the same time, we also call on eu member states to fulfil their nato commitments and increase their defence budgets to at least 2% of gdp.
madam president, the annual report 2022 on human rights and democracy in the world should objectively assess the human rights situation and the european union's activities in this area. unfortunately, the report we voted on today does not contain the vital information it should, and that includes the fact that christians are still the most persecuted religious group in the world. we voted on an amendment to incorporate this fact in the report, but unfortunately it was not adopted. this means that the report makes no mention of christians as a persecuted religious group. on the contrary, the report maintains the requirement to include the right to safe, legal abortion in the eu charter of fundamental rights, which i consider to be an unacceptable requirement that is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. that is why i could not vote for this report.
i'm not going to tell you. protecting the dignity and rights of every person in the world is one of my top priorities, and i devote myself to it every day. it forms the basis of my political work. unfortunately, i was unable to support the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world. it calls for the right to abortion to be included in the eu charter of fundamental rights, which i consider unacceptable. this step puts the very principle of human rights in complete contradiction with its very essence, because it threatens the protection of human life and the fundamental human right, which is the right to life. such erosion of the universal human rights system threatens the main instrument by which we protect human rights.
mr marc tarabella is no longer a member of the political group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats (s&d) and is included in the non-attached members as of 19 january 2023.
the id political group informed the president of a decision on changes in committee appointments. this decision will be noted in the minutes of today's meeting and will take effect from the date of this communication.
the next item is the report by mr dennis radtke, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the revision of the directive on european works councils (2019/2183 ((inl)) (a9-0295/2022).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in recent years, discussions on a possible amendment to the directive on the establishment of a european works council and on the work of european works councils in general have often focused on the question: how do we get more bodies, more european works councils? i think this debate is wrong because it is narrow. that is why this report, which is now being presented here and which will unfortunately not be voted on until 2 february 2023, focuses on another aspect: the question of the quality of participation is at the centre and not the question of the quantity. this report answers the question: what needs to be done to take participation at european level to another level? what must be done to enable european works councils to keep pace with management decisions that are becoming more and more international, more and more european? i do not think that this requires revolutions, but we need to make some adjustments, make some changes, and then we can make sure of that. the central issue is certainly the question of sanctions. i think it is important that when we talk about the rights of european works councils we also talk about the means and opportunities we are giving them to enforce their rights. my proposal is to align the framework of fines on the sanctions we have already established in the basic regulation on data protection, because i cannot understand and do not want to understand why a breach of data protection should be punished more harshly in europe than a breach of the fundamental rights of european works councils to participate in decision-making. my proposal is also to introduce an instrument which has become well established in germany, that when rights are violated, when management is not willing to release certain information, we introduce an instrument of injunction. this has become very firmly established in germany over the last 70 years. i also think that it is necessary to clarify a few things, first of all the question: what is confidential information? here we have the opportunity to refer to the legal definition in europe of what is a trade secret, for example, to provide more clarity. we also need more clarity on the question of what constitutes a transnational action. the question of access to justice is also an important one for me. we cannot point the finger at poland and hungary and always cry 'rule of law, rule of law!' but on the other hand we turn a blind eye when european works councils have been here for over two years in search of legal representation and access to justice. this is unacceptable, and these are things, and my expectations are very clear: this has to change. i am also very clear about my expectations of the european commission. we've done our homework here now. we are presenting a report that really gives answers, that opens up the opportunity to take participation in the eu to a new level. i therefore ask the commission to work on a proposal this year. i would like to conclude without thanking the shadow rapporteurs for their work of trust, and the large majority we had in the committee certainly speaks for the good atmosphere we had in the negotiations.
member of the commission. – mr president, dear members of the parliament, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur mr radtke, the shadows and the employment committee for allowing this important debate, and especially for their excellent report. in your report, you call on the commission to put forward a legislative proposal to revise directive 2009/38/ec on european works councils, and you propose a number of concrete legislative suggestions to strengthen ewcs and their ability to exercise their information and consultation rights, as well as to increase the number of ewcs while taking into account the different industrial relations systems in the member states. this comes at a critical juncture when we need to find policy responses to stimulate social dialogue, one of the essential features of the eu social market economy, while also protecting and enhancing the competitiveness of our single market. we know that we see eye to eye with this parliament on the importance of social dialogue, and the upcoming commission initiative to strengthen social dialogue at eu and national levels is a living proof of that. among the building blocks of our long standing tradition of social dialogue in europe are tools and processes for ensuring effective information and consultation of workers at company level. at eu level, an extensive legal framework, including european works councils, is in place to give workers the right to be informed and consulted by company management when, against the background of the internal market and globalisation, they take strategic decisions, undergo restructuring or contemplate collective redundancies. well-functioning european works councils have an important role to play today. we are still dealing with the aftermath of the covid—19 pandemic. digitalisation and the greening of the economy are also deep transformations we need to face. they are a must and an urgency, and these cannot be successful, fair and sustainable without an effective dialogue between workers and employers. social dialogue is all the more important to cope with the current challenges of high energy prices and their impact on business costs and wage adequacy. in this context, anticipating and managing change is fundamental to a balanced approach between the interests of employees and employers and a sound understanding of their common grounds. we need strong industrial relations between workers and employers at transnational level, which make our internal market stronger and fairer. obviously we must safeguard and promote employment and industrial activities based in europe, in particular at a time when europe’s competitiveness is at stake. but i think that social dialogue is not an enemy of competitiveness. it can be a very important instrument to strengthen and foster competitiveness. moreover, in a context of rapid change, ensuring legal certainty, both for workers and for employers, is also of the essence. it provides more confidence and trust in the system they are operating in. the commission reviewed the implementation of the 2009 european works council directive in 2018. at the time, the commission found that the best course of action was to focus its efforts on supporting the implementation of the existing rules and pursuing compliance of national legislation with eu law on a case—by—case basis. rest assured that the commission regularly monitors the transposition of the directive by the member states. it monitors enforcement mechanisms and assesses each and every complaint or incorrect transposition of the directive. we are also committed to provide financial support in this area and the commission provides funds for projects carried out by national and european social partners which promote information and consultation in companies, including in relation to european works councils. your resolution refers to essential areas of social dialogue and proposes to revise core concepts of the directive. these include broadening the definition of transnational matters, reinforcing consultation obligations and limiting the use of confidentiality exceptions. you also propose to significantly reinforce enforcement and sanctions for businesses that do not consult workers and to extend the directive to undertakings with pre-existing information and consultation of european works councils agreements. the commission will need to make an assessment of your final proposals, taking into account the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and better lawmaking. this will also include a legal assessment of the proposals, namely by the extension of the directive to undertakings with pre-existing information and consultation of european work councils agreements. in line with established practice under the current mandate and the commitment which has been taken by the president, the commission is committed to duly follow up on parliament’s resolution adopted under article 225 of the treaty, and this means also a legislative proposal. as you know, before presenting any legislative proposal for union action in the social policy field following article 154, the commission must consult eu social partners. and during this consultation, the social partners may decide to act by means of agreements between them. we take note of the parliament’s request to present a legislative proposal by 24 january. let me remind you, however, that should the commission decide to propose legislative action, the timing of any such proposal would depend on the outcome of those procedures. social dialogue is close to our hearts, and we must use the full potential of transnational industrial relations to help deliver in a fair and sustainable manner the changes that our economies urgently need, while enhancing the competitiveness and the good functioning of the european economy and specifically of the internal market.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr commissioner, it has been more than 10 years since the last revision of this directive, and a lot has changed since 2009. different labour market trends, digitalisation and the green transition are naturally affecting workers in unprecedented ways. a review, then, is very necessary. we can no longer accept that consultations take place after decisions have been taken. we cannot, for example, accept any more that information is held on false claims. we cannot continue to ignore the fragmentation of access to legal systems and courts. and so, this report identifies these issues and sets the path forward. i would like to thank dennis radtke and the shadow rapporteurs for the work they have done and i believe that we will of course have, i think, a good report with which to pave the way forward. these are proposals which will benefit both workers and, i would say, employers. proposals that will also add value. through this report we will see how we can ensure, for example, the worker's right to be informed, that workers are involved in decisions that directly affect them and that we facilitate access to justice systems. the best policy is facilitating a constructive dialogue. and the benefits seem to be now available to everyone.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and his shadow rapporteurs on the excellent work they have done together over the past few months on this package of legislative initiatives for the reform of the european works council directive. the text which comes before the house leaves no room for interpretation. after almost 30 years since the first directive, a complete revision of the directive is urgently needed so that information and consultation rights are no longer seen as optional by multinational companies operating in europe. the rights of workers to be informed in good time by companies and to be involved in their strategic choices have been trampled on too often in recent years, choices which in many cases have had a dramatic impact on the jobs and working conditions of millions of european workers, such as in the case of decisions to close a plant in a member state or in the face of company restructuring. to prevent this from happening again, we need a european directive introducing a better definition of the transnational character of a decision, a new system of sanctions that effectively discourages any attempt to circumvent these obligations, new rules to improve access to justice for works councils and finally the possibility of requesting a competent national court to suspend a company decision when the rights to information and consultation have been violated. the report which is now before the house contains important innovations on all these points and i hope that the house will reject any attempt to weaken the text by voting against it. the european commission is now called upon to do a very delicate but extremely important job. as a parliament we expect a broad and general proposal for the revision of the directive which is truly one of the pillars of the european social model. the world has changed. our companies operate in a global context. the single market, which celebrated its 30th anniversary just a few days ago, is a reality of the european union and the choices made by companies cross national borders, but they must never - and i say never - cross the fundamental and social rights of workers.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, this report is not just an invitation to the commission to strengthen the 1994 directive. it's actually a signature. it is the signature of this mandate that says that for us social europe is important and social dialogue with the differences of the member states is something important. and so this signature is important. i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr dennis, for ensuring that this signature was clear and effective in the interests of social dialogue within european works councils. and these works councils, when they work, are an undeniable asset for the well-being of employees, but also for the ecological transition and the economic results of companies. they are essential to the democracy at work which contributes to the vitality of european enterprises. strengthening them by enabling them to exercise their prerogatives effectively should be a matter of course. this is at least the spirit of the proposals we are making to the commission. we are calling for the european works councils created by the 1994 directive to finally have the means to exercise their rights. nothing very original, really, just the rule of law. it is high time that employers could no longer delay or simply block the creation of such works councils. these works councils should be informed before any decision is taken. that a gender balance be ensured in the composition of these works councils. that confidentiality clauses are no longer misused and that these works councils have the legal capacity and financial means to bring legal proceedings in all member states. by seeking to weaken the enforceability of the rights of these european works councils, the renew group's amendments hinder employees in the exercise of their rights and deprive companies of an important asset for their success. i would urge you, ladies and gentlemen, not to go down that road and i would ask the commission to take up this excellent draft report to consolidate social rights throughout europe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mr rapporteur, a frenchman named jean jaurès said of democracy: the great revolution made the french kings in the city and left them as slaves in the business world. unfortunately, the dennis radtke report does not propose to make a revolution in the company. however, it is very important because it proposes to instill democracy in the enterprise by strengthening the power of european works councils. political democracy is a matter of course for all of us. social democracy in the workplace must become a reality. there is no reason why we should put our citizenship in our pockets when we come to work in the morning. there are therefore works councils, european works councils, which are essential to consult workers when important decisions are taken within the company. but you can't fool yourself. at work, workers are subject to a bond of subordination and will never have total power. democracy will never be totally perfect in business. and let us be aware that often the european works councils and the social democratic bodies in the company in general are used as a democratic veneer on decisions taken unilaterally by the management. let us not forget that the ultimate objective of a company is not to allow the workers' sovereignty to be realized, but to make profits. who makes these profits? who creates wealth? without workers, the enterprise is nothing, creates nothing. so why should investors be consulted in general meetings to validate the strategic decisions of the companies and why should employees, who create wealth, not be consulted? the enterprises - and this is in my view the main interest of the works councils - are now organising themselves at european level, to go where the legislation suits them best. and the european works councils are essential in the sense that they are counter-powers. because often the credo of companies, and i think particularly of amazon, is to divide to rule better, to play on the atomization of employees, their dispersion, their compartmentalization. everywhere, wherever the workers of the multinationals have set up spaces for discussion, for exchange, they have succeeded in overturning the balance of power. this is, in my view, the main interest of the european works councils as a tool for transnational action in the service of worker mobilisation.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. global gateway is a huge opportunity. it is our chance, the chance of the european union, to put relations with the global south - and it is high time - on a new foundation, a partnership foundation that creates the basis for us to shape our future together. but the political orientation must be right. it's about 300 billion euros by 2027 for education, for health, for infrastructure. what do you mean, the political line has to be right? our partner countries must be empowered to walk their own path to a sustainable future, with clean energy and a good economy, with a perspective for the millions of boys and girls who want to go to school, who want to learn something to lead their lives - a good life in their respective countries - and to contribute to their own personal success. that means we need to develop sustainability strategies, and we need to fight the glaring inequalities with this instrument - inequalities that are growing. and this is a key reason why our partner countries are not getting on their feet. that's the compass we're talking about. we are not going to discuss this, and i say this quite frankly, we are not. we are missing concepts that we can say are already valid today. yes, we miss the dialogue with the european parliament. the european parliament is the legislator and the budgetary authority. and yes, i think it is becoming more difficult to get member states on board and to attract private investors. but that's my message from the debate this morning: there is no way around a constructive dialogue with the european parliament, and it is high time that it was established.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, more than a year has passed since its announcement, and no one is really sure what the real purpose of global gateway is. is it an attempt to rival belt and road? is it a development cooperation initiative, as many insist it is, or is it simply an investment strategy for european business? perhaps it’s none of those things. perhaps it’s all of those things. we should be brave enough to go beyond traditional policies and methods when necessary, but to what end? at its most basic, a policy is a statement of intent, but instead of intentions or indeed an overarching goal, global gateway has five key areas of partnership based on six principles as outlined earlier. other than the goal of mobilising eur 300 billion, there are no clear targets, no indicators: global gateway simply has no clear purpose. and in our efforts to be more geopolitical and competitive, i think we have lost sight of one of the most fundamental principles – the reason we have article 208 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union in the first place. i’m referring to the eradication of poverty, the very purpose of development cooperation, and indeed the first of the sustainable development goals. i do not see this – the sdg 1 or article 208 – articulated anywhere in this project, which i believe is a tragic oversight. at best, it is a lost opportunity to give the global gateway a clear and strategic purpose, which would surely dovetail with other objectives, such as creating jobs, boosting education, connectivity and creating investments. but global gateway has a potentially more sinister problem, which is summarised in one word, namely the lack of accountability. ironically, given that democratic partnership is among the six principles of global gateway, there is no dedicated mechanism to scrutinise the implementation or indeed the articulation of projects. yes, there is a business advisory group, but there’s no cso advisory group quite ironically. my intention is not to criticise just for the sake of it. it is in the interest of all of us that global gateway is a success. so let us make this something we are proud to defend.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, when president von der leyen, almost a year and a half ago, announced the global gateway initiative, it was welcomed by this house. because she proposed a plan to revive, to reorient and to enlarge in scope an initiative that had originally been promoted by her predecessor, juncker, in the waning days of his own presidency. the principles of global gateway are good. global gateway is designed to combine three major thrusts: to invest into international infrastructure development; to promote the green and digital transformation; and to combine that with the geopolitical goals of the european union. but a year and a half later, i’m sometimes tempted to say global gateway would be a good idea. indeed, i agree with the colleagues who have said that it is now time to deliver. when dg intpa, for instance, last year organised its traditional development days and put the label global gateway everywhere but didn’t change a thing on substance, that was not what we expect. that was old wine in new wineskins. instead of creative geopolitical action, bureaucratic laziness. when one commissioner says he has 84 lighthouse projects under the label of global gateway, he hasn’t understood the idea, obviously. the world is waiting for us to put our money where our mouth has been. and udo bullmann is right that this is a great opportunity. but mr tobé is also right when he says this has to be developed in a mutually beneficial way and we have to develop a real partnership. but that is not going to be successful if we pursue global gateway as a kind of christmas tree project. we have to have clear priorities and we have to have the governance right. and what we are still missing is this. we are still missing the business advisory council. we are still missing the civil society dialogue as a permanent exercise. we are still missing the global gateway forum that was proposed in the strategy and that should be organised this autumn. and we will also need – and i think mrs von der leyen would be well advised to do that – the nomination of a high-level special envoy to represent global gateway for the european union.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have long been saying that the european union should concentrate on certain policies of strategic interest which can really add value for its member states and its citizens, and that it should put aside the bureaucracy and over-regulation which have too often characterised its evolution. this was finally achieved, albeit with a guilty delay, a little over a year ago, with the launch of the global gateway initiative, an ambitious project to develop infrastructure and connectivity in the digital, energy and mobility sectors. but above all, it can be an initiative that is ultimately geopolitically ambitious, as it is conceived as a concrete alternative to the chinese new silk road to be offered to third countries to escape from beijing's sphere of influence, which has come close to and even within the borders of the european union. yet, to tackle a penetration plan as aggressive as the belt and road initiative, which today comes to involve more than 65 nations, more than half the world's population and three-quarters of the world's energy reserves and one-third of global gross domestic product, we need clarity of intent, speed of execution, adequate budgets and effective financial levers. this mobilization of common resources must lead to tangible results, defend our strategic infrastructures, grow our economies, guarantee security of supply, promote our interests in the world, guarantee stability in crisis areas and establish a new mode of cooperation that offers third countries development in exchange for concrete commitments, starting with the prevention of all illegal flows and illegal migratory flows.
mr president the european union's proposal to build a global gateway to the world is an important turning point in the eu's external relations. for hungary, the opening of the gateway to the western balkans is of paramount importance, as it strengthens cooperation in the energy sector. for example, the trans-balkan electricity corridor, which links the transmission systems of serbia, montenegro and bosnia and herzegovina with us, including hungary. the initiative also covers the digital sector, transport, health and research and development. i want to emphasize the importance of access. when we invest in these sectors, we should make sure that they are accessible to everyone, including people with disabilities.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, more than one year has passed since the commission put forward the global gateway – let me thank president ursula von der leyen for her leadership. in that one year, geopolitics have changed significantly, as many speakers have pointed out. it is now more important than ever to ensure that the european union provides an instrument and an investment alternative to partner countries, including those receptive to chinese and russian influence. the global gateway initiative offers long—term sustainable solutions to address joint priorities together with our partners. this is good for their development and it is also necessary to strengthen our own strategic sovereignty and competitiveness. yes, the global initiative is an important geopolitical tool with large potential, but in order to make it effective, it is key to be geopolitically smart and strategic in our action and communication. the choice of projects should be driven by two guiding questions: first, where does our offer to countries entail both a qualitative high positive offer to the partner country? and second, when does it help prevent malign influence by authoritarian countries? i welcome the groundwork that has been done over the past year, but now it is important to deliver as team europe, the eu institutions, the member states, the eib, the ebrd and the private sector need to come on board with their financing and with their expertise. the european parliament should continue to stand ready to help make global gateway a success.
mr president, commissioner, globalisation is not over, it is undergoing a profound transformation. in this transformation, it is essential to strengthen the european union as a relevant global actor, upholding our priorities and values in equal, open and transparent partnerships. the global gateway initiative, with its €300 billion budget and its focus areas, in particular digital, energy, transport, health and research, is a key instrument for cooperation, diplomacy and economic affirmation of the union, and for affirming a multilateral and sustainable vision of development. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the union's policies on the environment, including on the impact of the union's policies on the environment, on the impact of the union's policies on the environment and on the impact of the union's policies on the environment. as a co-legislator, but also as the house of democracy and the agent of the union's parliamentary diplomacy, the european parliament must be more involved in promoting and scrutinizing this agenda. i therefore welcome the opportunity of this debate. it should be the first of many others throughout the implementation of the initiative, complementing the necessary creation of other scrutiny and monitoring mechanisms involving the various parliamentary committees. we must ensure that the concept of partnership between equals is affirmed as a hallmark of the european union's way of acting in the world. to this end, the entry into force of the post-cotonou agreement will be a decisive signal which we cannot postpone any longer. the global gateway initiative cannot only be a huge opportunity, and it is, for the union's economic and political community, but it must also be a transformative mechanism, in line with a global multilateral agenda, which respects common values and contributes to bringing people together in the pursuit of a more prosperous, dignified and fairer future.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, while the european union and its member states are key players in international development aid, and we work hand in hand with our partners, our action is under attack, competed with by other allies, but above all called into question by states such as china and its hegemonic project of the new silk roads, which are trying to weaken us and the states they claim to help. these attacks on who we are, our ambitions, those of our partners, are what is at the heart of the european union's new approach to the global gateway: to remind that our values and those of our partners are at the heart of our action, to encourage investment in quality infrastructure, but above all to work for a safer, fairer, greener world for all. but the results are not there yet. while we are talking about substantial sums, €300 billion, which are also insufficient, we must ensure that the necessary investments give substance to more concrete projects, such as the strengthening of production and manufacturing capacities for vaccines, optical fibres linking north africa to europe, a trans-baltic electricity corridor... much is being done, but it is not enough. it's not visible. commissioner, we must not stop halfway. let's look beyond that and really address the shared needs of our partners.
mr president, commissioner, we are facing the same thing. in its strategy for international cooperation, europe is today at a fundamental crossroads. what do we have to do to ensure that europe has a real place on the world stage, a real place, not a mere pawn? we must firmly oppose the new chinese silk roads, which are a poison to the global balance. all the billions that beijing gives from one hand, the chinese regime violently takes back from the other, strangling the developing countries that have been seduced by this kind of siren song. on the contrary, we europeans respect our partners. our collaboration tool, the global gateway, is a partnership tool based on respect. it's not just about the money. these 300 billion should be used to implement projects to combat climate change, for energy transitions, for collective intelligence, for local initiatives. the money is there, but now we must speed up the construction of projects, of construction sites. we're not going fast enough. we know there's a danger. so it is imperative to go faster, go further. we are still far from having succeeded in our goal, and i want to raise a point of alarm here today, particularly on the indo-pacific axis.
madam president, thank you. what a sense of democracy, ladies and gentlemen! i have not even spoken the words you have already said! i see, dear colleagues of the epp, the intransigence you have towards ngos, which i share, but i would urge you to show the same intransigence towards corruption in our european parliament and to ensure that all the political lessons are drawn from this 'qatargate'. i can see your group's attempt to bury the resolution adopted in december, which includes the obligation to have a transparency register, a commission of inquiry into the 'qatargate' affair and the creation of an independent ethics authority. you continue to reject all these proposals here in the european parliament. so stop mocking the world when you point the finger at ngos, but don't learn any lessons in politics to impose the transparency that is needed.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, prices are exploding, wages are stagnating, life is getting harder and harder, europe is facing an unprecedented social crisis, and austerity is making its big comeback at the worst possible time, with brutal attacks on our social protection system, as in my country, france, where almost three million citizens demonstrated yesterday against the breaking of pensions. but we will not talk about all this today, because when things go wrong, the scapegoat is always the same: the foreigner. the extreme right is once again imposing its xenophobic agenda on us, in the face of a migration invasion that does not exist. just look at the delighted face of marco zanni, who comes here with the red carpet rolled up, saying: "shut up, a new debate on immigration!" while we are experiencing the most serious inflation crisis in our history, and people are racing to finish their months. i am not surprised by the horrors proposed by the far right - this is not new - but i am concerned that they are now being taken up by the right, by you, mr weber, but also by more and more liberals. i remember a few years ago we were all here denouncing mr trump's dangerous delusions. but now a majority of this house is following in his footsteps, including mrs von der leyen, who is no longer reluctant to support these walls of shame in europe. then no, sorry: not the walls, but everything around slight shade, you will understand. the fortress, however, already exists: 1,000 kilometres of walls currently, and thousands more in the pipeline, migrant cages in bulgaria, ngos that are criminalised, frontex that violates human rights and those of exiles on a daily basis. this is the reality that the european commission, as well as a section of this house, wants to hide, these human lives of which mrs von der leyen has not said a word. so i would like to read you some testimonies of abused exiles from this "black book", which is part of the "black book of repatriation", which our group has published in conjunction with ngos. i read: after beating us violently for thirty minutes with a metal baton, they paused to smoke. an officer smashed his cigarette on my friend's head. he pulled my scarf off, beat and yelled at me, tore my dress and kept searching me, touching my body in front of my child. what more do you want? live gunfire on those who try to cross? shipwrecked people who are left to drown? refugees fleeing war and denied asylum? all this has already been done, and you want to generalize it. so, in conclusion, europe can still come to its senses, respect its so-called values. but here we will not stop saying: let us finally arrange a dignified welcome for the exiles as it should and as it is possible to do.
mr president, the years are passing and the pressure of migration continues to suffocate europe. in 2022, the frontex agency recorded 330 000 irregular crossings of the external borders of the european union. these alarming figures should be a wake-up call to the european union and make it aware of the seriousness of the current situation. while we are experiencing a real flood of migrants, which would require strong measures, commissioner johansson still refuses to finance walls and barriers at europe's borders, on the pretext that the european union would not have the funds to spend on this. the commission is, however, much less concerned with financial means when it comes to subsidising certain associations and campaigns promoting the future of europe with the islamic veil. what credibility should be given to the measures announced by mrs von der leyen to deal with the migration crisis, while at the same time maintaining a pro-immigration position? in order to intensify the so-called 'humanitarian' corridors to encourage mass immigration and to attract more supposedly skilled workers, brussels continues to create air appeals, vacuum pumps, which many migration candidates will follow. the european union must control its borders, stop funding ngo's that provide migrant taxis, stop legalising illegal immigration, send back to their countries of origin all those who have to leave and stop giving a single euro to states that do not take back their nationals. this is a vital issue for the future of europe. it is high time to show common sense and firmness, because if europe cannot be left to fend for itself, it must protect its citizens, its businesses and its identity. europe will only be strong if the member states are strong. it's exactly the opposite that's happening. we are firmly opposed to this.
mr president, the council will also be looking at the issue of migration, which is critical for the future of europe, all the more so in the coming months. at least 330 000 illegal arrivals in 2022: a record since 2016! the explosion in the number of asylum applications compared with the previous year is also reflected in the fact that almost one million applications were received in our countries, including 150 000 in france alone. let us be clear: none of us here will probably live directly the consequences of these massive, long-lasting and growing migratory flows. and when i hear our dear colleague manon aubry ironically suggest that this migration debate will serve to hide the deep social unrest in our countries, i am always equally surprised that the left does not make the connection and does not take the case for the most modest social circles, those who, unlike the rich, do not have the means to isolate themselves from the consequences of this great upheaval in their world. the commission says it wants to take the scale of this challenge seriously, but to achieve results after such a long delay, it is necessary to get out of the ambiguity. we supported the massive increase in frontex's budget, but commissioner johansson got her director fired on the grounds that her border guards were stopping migrants from illegally entering europe. europe says it wants to organise a real partnership with the countries of emigration, but member states such as france and germany persist in bringing home workers who make up for the shortcomings of their economies and demographics. we want to speed up returns, but the european asylum case law is contributing every day to the misuse of this right. the president of the commission says she supports the neighbouring countries, but she still refuses them any support for building the walls that would protect their borders. what a contradiction! ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve results on this vital subject, we must finally get out of the ambiguity.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after billions in health and arms, brussels is venturing into the regulation of the 2024 european elections, even in our villages. you are all terrified of democracy, terrified of the trump wave coming back, terrified of brexit, terrified of free speech. your sponsors subsidise and control the press, the tv channels air your propaganda 24 hours a day, but the flame of freedom has taken refuge in social networks and alternative media. we are obviously in favour of transparency in political advertising, such as the transparency of the text messages between bourla and ursula, the transparency of pfizer vaccine contracts, the transparency of ngo lobbying. yes, let the commission clarify whether the orgenesis laboratory, where ursula's husband is medical director, receives european funds, and why the commission is still buying half a billion doses of pfizer until 2024 at hidden prices! no one is fooled. it is not the transparency of political party advertisements that is targeted, but your fear of democracy, of the election results.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, gibraltar: do not worry, i am not going to talk to you about sovereignty, because if president sánchez does not care about that, i do not see why you should care. i'm going to talk to you about money and dark money. gibraltar has 6.7 square kilometres, 34,000 residents, no natural resources, 30,000 companies and the third highest per capita income in the world. almost five times as much as el tesorillo, a neighboring town. the gibraltarians are ingenious, but there's probably more to it. for example, the tax authorities. indirect taxes are low there. corporate tax is not levied on profits made outside the rock, that is, all of them. pedro sánchez signed in 2019 an agreement that consolidates this privileged regime and, in addition, allows residents there free access to the european internal market. who's going to invest in algeciras instead of the rock? we now know that there are doubts about your money laundering and terrorist financing legislation. the agreement between the european union and the united kingdom on gibraltar is now being negotiated. pay close attention to what you're doing, don't look to faraway paradises and consecrate a cayman islands on our southern border.
madam president, sex traffickers, corrupt officials, fraudulent businessmen – the common denominator: they own property in the united arab emirates. not only does the uae host criminal eu citizens, they also host sanctioned russians. in dubai, russians are among the largest group of foreign real estate investors or barefaced money launderers – it’s ‘moscow on the gulf’. the emirates do not comply with international agreements. they rank eighth in a financial secrecy index. so it’s no surprise that, in early 2022, the international fatf grey-listed the emirates. ever since, the s&d group has been calling on the commission to mirror this and we were happy to see that the commission did, rightfully proposing the list to include the emirates. but the council delays; it’s more than a year gone. trying to avoid a confrontation? i hope not. but this is undermining the sanctions against russia. this gives exactly the wrong signal. we cannot be complacent in the fight against dirty money – not then and certainly not now.
madam president, commissioner, minister, criminals are playing by the rules of the game to finance terrorist attacks here or launder money there. they're unscrupulous, exploiting our weaknesses. the commission and the council cannot remain silent when a third country poses a specific and serious threat to the financial system of the european union. the latest example is the united arab emirates. we know that this country is a haven for oligarchs and criminals who want to escape our rules of the game and sanctions. the financial action task force, the fatf, the international benchmark in this field, has identified this country as a serious threat to the financial system as of march 2022 this has been said several times. however, it took nine months for the commission to update our blacklist. nine months to which the council has added an extra period, making us more vulnerable to external threats and pressure. our european list should be aligned with the fatf list as soon as possible. the revision of our blacklist is too politicized, opaque and slow. as co-rapporteur with eero on the anti-money laundering regulation, i am in favour of a thorough reform of this procedure. the future european authority must also play a key role. we need to move faster. we need to hit harder. every week of council inaction exposes our financial systems and our societies to the attacks of the worst criminals.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, the european union is quite paradoxical about afghanistan. we knew full well that the taliban would not respect anything that the western powers wanted. these men live, fight and die to challenge our countries, which they deem barbaric and decadent. the place of women, religious freedom, shiite or ethnic minorities in afghanistan will never be stable under their yoke. it took the utmost naivety on the part of our institutions to believe that their retrograde ideology would be appeased by contact with the envoys from brussels. in 2009-2010, i had the honour of being the special representative of france to afghanistan. i met afghan women who were much more than our institutional apparatus. educated, free, brave, they were not fighting against windmills, but for their dignity and their future. they have been the great forgotten ones of our institutions. because to actually help afghan women, we needed to secure a geopolitical compromise in kabul. we had to stop pampering pakistan. we had to work with all the components of afghan political life, not just a puppet government that fled the country after ruining the army and robbing the people. in short, standing up for women in afghanistan required being realistic - something we often failed to do.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the ukrainians are carrying the security of the european union on their shoulders. however, the ukrainians are not yet members of our union and therefore do not participate in our decisions. that is why our parliament has always been the voice of the ukrainian people in this war. we've always been on the cutting edge. the european parliament has obtained unprecedented sanctions: an embargo on russian fossil fuels, the granting of candidate status to ukraine, financial and military aid packages. today we continue to play this role. ukrainians have been fighting for a year. experts tell us that this spring could be a turning point. a new russian offensive, of unprecedented violence, is foreseeable. my group welcomes with relief and gratitude the decisions of the member states and the united states to supply tanks to ukraine. it was a right decision, it was a necessary decision. my group, however, calls for continued efforts by expanding the sanctions list considerably to include 6,000 individuals at the heart of the putin regime. the gradual integration of ukraine into our bloc is also a top priority: the common market, structural programmes and european funds must be gradually opened up to our ukrainian friends. at every stage of sanctions and integration, we know that the kremlin will threaten us. however, i would like to warn european decision-makers, and ourselves here in the european parliament, that it is not russia's job to set the red lines. russia has crossed the only red line by violating international law, which is the foundation of our collective security. russia has crossed the moral red line in committing war crimes and crimes against humanity. let us not fall into the trap of their propaganda here or in other european institutions. the blackmail, the apocalyptic predictions, we've been hearing about them for a year. where would ukraine be today if we had not listened to the ukrainian people, if we had listened to the kremlin and its european spokespeople? so now, imagine what would happen to ukraine if we stopped listening to it, if we stopped supporting it? let us not be afraid, let us continue the fight, let us continue to support ukraine.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, a political leader should always strive for two fundamental objectives: peace within and peace without; peace within the nation and peace between nations. in the absence of either, freedom disappears or is only a fragile asset, which can be broken at any time. for almost a year russia has invaded ukraine, violated its borders, committed acts of war against civilian populations and illegally occupied a significant part of its territory. in doing so, moscow gave the ukrainians a common enemy and the ukrainian nation, which it claimed was illusory, a spirit of resistance and a more intense and concrete existence than ever before. we must reaffirm here that, like all the peoples of the world, ukrainians have the right to self-determination and to reject the shadow of empire. and, like all nations in the world, ukraine has the legitimate right, and perhaps even the duty, to defend its territory, its integrity and its borders. we, on the other hand, because history teaches us and we are watching, because peace is a fragile balance that resonates more strongly on our continent than elsewhere, we have a duty to ensure that the rest of europe does not rush into war and that it does not become an irreversible gearing. we have a duty to help and assist our neighbours who are under attack, starting with the reception of their war refugees or the provision of defence equipment. on the other hand, the mobilization of combat aircraft or tanks, which, i would remind you, france no longer has even for itself in its own capacities, would place our states and the european union in a new dimension and escalation, that of co-belligerence. let us remember that yesterday we were talking only about personal equipment and defensive weapons. today we are told that it is only a handful of tanks and we are already talking about warplanes. why not nuclear warheads the day after tomorrow? the war is already here, raging between the russians and the ukrainians, destroying cities, families and landscapes. but tomorrow it could spread to others and set the whole continent on fire if we completely erase the possibility of peace from our horizon. to say that war is now impossible is to make war more likely than ever. it is worrying that the desire to seek peace terms is being presented by some warmongers as the wish for a russian victory. only a major continental peace treaty will be able to provide the stability that europe as a whole needs in a world already marked by geopolitical insecurity. to speak of peace, to wish for it and to actively pursue it is not to sacrifice ukrainian freedom and independence, but on the contrary to make it possible. if we want peace, we must now, more than ever, prepare for it in our speech and actions.
madam president, ukraine needs our help more than ever. i hear strange noises here and there in europe. would we not have done enough in terms of military aid? those who say we are co-belligerents are blatantly lying and are only those who are linked to russia. no european has troops in ukraine. we are simply giving ukraine the means to defend itself and we must stop procrastinating: every day of delay in our military aid is a loss of life in ukraine. i also hear that ukraine is in a great hurry to join the european union, that its enthusiasm should be tempered. but ukraine is still pursuing its reforms in the midst of war. in the midst of the war, president zelensky is waging a fight against corruption on an unprecedented scale, and let us say, without parallel in some of our member states. i finally hear that we would have difficulty in adopting new sanctions against russia. yet our economies are holding up better than we thought. however, russia has not yet given up its military aggression, and it is testing our resolve. we would be wrong to agree with him.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is two months since the worst corruption scandal in the history of the european parliament broke, with four members and former members being prosecuted for corruption by morocco and qatar. for two months now, european citizens have been learning about the culture of opacity and impunity that reigns in our institutions, the hundreds of undeclared gifts, the all-expenses paid trips by lobbyists, the negotiations behind closed doors... two months ago almost all the members of the european parliament promised, here in this chamber, with their hands on their hearts, to restore the integrity of parliament by voting a resolution with 15 proposals for reform. but two months later, this roadmap was buried and with it eleven of these proposals: the obligation of a transparency register, the compulsory declaration of heritage or the publication of the origin of the amendments. that is why we are calling for this debate and this resolution today to ensure that the commitments are followed up. because, let me tell you, colleagues, the time has come to give public account. not to morocco, not to qatar, but to the european citizens to whom you have so much promised reforms.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, last week the european council met, where many member states demanded that brussels finance the construction of walls at the external borders to protect their territory from mass immigration, which was refused by the president of the commission. at the same time, german socialist chancellor scholz is preparing to pass a "liberal" law to facilitate the arrival of 400,000 immigrants a year to meet, according to him, the demographic problems germany is facing. more than 5 million people are expected to come by 2035. once they reach the rhine, these immigrants will be free to move throughout europe. the choice germany is about to make concerns us all and will have an impact on all the policies in our territories. it is therefore essential that we debate it, which is why we are asking for it to be added to the agenda. it is inconceivable that at a time when there is an urgent need to strengthen our external borders, an eu member state unilaterally decides to open the floodgates to immigration. a debate is needed here. i therefore urge you to vote in favour of our request.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, since the tragic night of 6 february, all europeans have expressed their solidarity with the turkish and syrian peoples, who are both going through a terrible ordeal. immediately, the european chancelleries and the european union announced their support for turkey through various mechanisms, which is our honour. on the other hand, our apprehensions about the fate of the people of northern syria are paltry. yes, we must lift the sanctions against the syrian people. yes, in the name of european humanism, we must not shy away from any partnership to save human lives. 90% of syrians were living below the poverty line before the earthquake. european and american sanctions keep them in a perpetual economic crisis which increases their migration and costs human lives. these conditions were already revolting, but today they are politically disastrous and morally intolerable. even the united states is now announcing a relaxation of its coercive measures. what is europe waiting for? the european union cannot continue to make the syrian people pay for the victory of bashar al-assad over the islamist rebellion and thus continue to keep the syrian people in misery, even after this disaster. today, aleppo residents are still on the streets, fearing that their buildings will collapse. humanitarian organisations are taking immense legal risks to get the aid that the european people are so generously willing to give to the victims. and we turn a blind eye to it, pretending that sanctions won't affect humanitarian aid. but you know that's not true, because all the banks refuse to make any money transfers. so all the actors in the emergency aid sector are saying the opposite and are asking for this change in policy, the victims of the earthquake are asking us to lift the sanctions against syria.
madam president, when an earthquake kills more than 30 000 people, there should be no turks, syrians, shiites, sunnis, salafis, christians or kurds to be rescued, but only men, women and children. when an earthquake kills more than 30 000 people, we are moved by the gestures of solidarity that transcend conflict: turkey has received the support of armenia and greece, despite the weight of history and the tensions of the present. unfortunately, in syria, the earthquake is just another tragedy. only one crossing point is open to the northwest for emergency aid, on the grounds that the area is not under damascus control. fighting continues, including in the areas affected by the earthquake. the regime of bashar al-assad blames international sanctions for the slow pace of aid, although they have never included humanitarian assistance. in the face of the scale of the damage and the number of civilians at risk, it is time for the security council to demand a complete ceasefire and unhindered flow of emergency aid, and for the un to establish an airlift to syria. one child's life is worth another's life, in syria or turkey. it's time to remember.
madam president, commissioner, repowereu: behind this new symbol is the end of europe's energy dependence. this is a new milestone: we are adopting and adapting the stimulus funds to respond to the current crisis. the european union is finally showing pragmatism, responsiveness and solidarity in giving the member states the tools to overcome this winter. the war in europe is forcing us to accelerate our action to reduce our dependence on russian fuels, but not at any price. the end of this dependence must be achieved in the interests of the green transition and in line with the objectives we have set ourselves to make our continent more sustainable. we owe it to future generations. through the inclusion of repowereu chapters in national recovery and resilience plans, we are empowering national governments with additional investments to improve energy efficiency, develop renewable energy and tackle energy poverty. we are creating the conditions for no family, no business to be without energy on european soil, for this winter and beyond.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 12 million europeans live in a country of the european union that is not their own. these europeans have the right to work, live and study in another member state and they know it. these mobile citizens also have the right to vote in the european elections in their host country, but often they do not know it. and so, in practice, they don't vote at all: not in their home country, because they don't live there, and not in their host country, because they don't know they have the right to vote. this report aims to make this right effective, first and foremost by promoting access to information, which will be given to mobile citizens as soon as they register in their new country of residence. this will enable them to make an informed choice, as soon as they arrive, whether to vote in their member state of origin or from their member state of residence. in a context where there is massive abstention at every european election - i am not saying that the revision of this directive is a magic solution - we cannot afford to be complacent about more citizens being able to go to the polls at european elections and this report is helping to do that.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, colleagues, we are all still shocked to learn that corruption has allegedly found its way into the hands of some of our colleagues. we are all determined to make sure that this is no longer possible. that's good! but then, ladies and gentlemen, i would urge us to be consistent. we know that countries in the near and middle east, qatar in the lead, are willing to pay large sums of money to influence us. so let's not let them do it, no matter what method they use. it is time to ask ourselves about certain islamist associations which not only have a stall in the streets of brussels, but which our institutions welcome with open arms, legitimately and sometimes even finance. not a week goes by without femyso sending us an e-mail, not a year without the european commission granting it. why would you do that? why choose a federation whose links to the muslim brotherhood are not in doubt for anyone? why fund a religious association to address young people when we are a secular european institution? another example: why does erasmus+ let a fraternal association al sharq coordinate four, four of its projects? all these associations have links with the middle east or with turkey, or with both. they all challenge our european way of life. how long will the european union roll out the red carpet for them? the qatargate should also open our eyes to this.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, when the wise man points to the moon, the fool looks at the finger. in the wake of the worst corruption scandal in the history of the european parliament, i have to say that the right wing is living up to the saying by blaming all the ills on the ngos. police confiscate suitcases of bills from the mps? it's the fault of the ngos! morocco and qatar are sending their ambassadors to corrupt our institutions? of course it is the fault of the ngos! parliament's rules on transparency are not respected and sanctions are non-existent? it's always the ngos' fault! but rest assured, dear colleagues of the epp - you who are not very many here tonight - i know you are not stupid. you know very well that amnesty international, the red cross and greenpeace have nothing to do with it. but making them scapegoats allows you to kill two birds with one stone. first, you take revenge on those associations that defend the environment and human rights rather than the profits of big business. then, better to divert attention from your opposition to any ethical reform project and your own trickery. but to be honest, it is a great bargain to ignore the 20 000 euro salary offered to the president of your group, in addition to his allowance as an mep. or is it the fault of the ngos?
member of the commission. – madam president, i hope we are not exhausted yet on this issue, because i think some further discussions are needed. today i have the opportunity to set out the rigorous legal framework in place under the financial regulation that ensures the protection of union financial interests, including as regards the eu funding allocated to ngos. the commission has highlighted the thorough ex-ante selection processes in place for applicants for eu funding, the contractual obligations in place safeguarding respect of union values and the ex—post mechanism to take action upon violation of such values. this framework continues to ensure that projects and entities that are incompatible with european values or pursuing an irreconcilable agenda do not receive eu funding. in application of this framework, the commission has taken concrete actions against the ngo ‘no peace without justice’. the commission will present an anti-corruption package in april, including a proposal to update the eu rules on fighting corruption by criminal law. before the summer 2023, the commission will also present the defence of democracy package that will deepen the action under the european democracy action plan to promote free and fair elections, including by developing civic space and citizens’ participation to bolster democratic resilience from within. in particular, it will include proposals to protect our democracies and strengthen trust by defending our democratic system from outside interests. let me finish by emphasising the continuous commitment of the commission to work together with the european parliament in ensuring adequate protection of the union’s financial interests and union values.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the follow-up to the measures requested by parliament to strengthen the integrity of the institutions, bodies and agencies of the union (2023/2571 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the european institutions have a mission to serve the general interest of the european union. all european institutions need to ensure the highest standards of integrity and independence for themselves and for their members. this is essential to maintain public trust in the european union and to preserve the integrity of the decision—making process in each institution. the institutions and we, as members of these institutions, must work to deserve the trust of european citizens. citizens can only keep faith in the eu if the principles of ethics, integrity and transparency are upheld by the european institutions and by their members. this is why the commission has been uncompromising in delivering the highest standards of transparency and ethics. the treaties and the code of conduct for the members of the european commission, which the commission adopted in 2018, require them to observe the highest standards of integrity and ethical conduct during but also after their mandate. most institutions of the eu have a framework which regulates the individual ethical obligations applicable to their members. they are based on general institutional principles and on provisions of the treaties, and they are set out in more detail either in the rules of procedure or in codes of conduct of the institutions. it is, of course, part of the institutional autonomy of each institution to decide for itself on the rules applicable to its members. but it is of the collective interests of all institutions that each of them has a strong ethical framework in place for its members. the president mentioned already in her political guidelines in 2019 that the commission is also supporting the creation of an independent ethics body common to all institutions. this work has entailed contacts and discussions with the other institutions, and i look forward to our debate on this topic tomorrow afternoon. the commission follows with great interest the developments on the new measures which are being discussed within the european parliament. in the field of transparency, the european parliament, the council and the commission reached a major milestone with the adoption of the interinstitutional agreement on the transparency register in 2021. the register is the recognition of the importance of a common framework to coordinate the approach to transparency amongst the participating institutions. the reputation of the european union as a whole depends on the reputation of each institution and on the ethical conduct of each member. this is a common responsibility for all of us.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. the title of our debate today refers to all the european institutions, but we know, of course, that the pretext for these actions and discussions is the corruption scandal in the european parliament. we ask ourselves, is the fact that this kind of crime happens the result of a weakness in human nature, that is, a vulnerability to crime, or is it a weakness in the system, the organizational system? the european parliament has reacted very quickly to this type of action and we all know that the 14-point proposal proposed by the president has come forward and that proposal has been carefully analysed and is now being implemented. i would therefore like to say that this is why the european people's party, our group, was against this debate, because last week the conference of presidents decided to launch the process of implementing the points which are intended to improve the situation in the european parliament. there are some very important elements concerning transparency, the powers of members and former members, and there are also elements concerning the functioning of the register of all lobbyists and how this register, which is common to all the european institutions, is to be organised. i understand that the commissioner has mentioned this and that all the institutions should consider together whether this registration system needs to be improved. we as parliamentarians are currently in the process of considering the implementation of certain changes and the reform of the european parliament. no law will give the criminals a break. instead, we need to consider whether there are gaps in our system that need to be filled. we should of course start by ensuring that all members of the european parliament have the necessary information on the existing rules, regulations and institutions. because the conversations i've had indicate that the news about the existing regulatory system is not widely known. we have a lot of work to do. i hope that this work will be done together with the european commission.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, dear vice-president of the commission, dear colleagues, the scandal of corruption put all of us in a state of shock. this is now not the moment to defend the status quo that allowed the poison of corruption to fester. we have to act quickly and forcefully to protect the integrity and increase transparency of the parliament and the european union as a whole. that is why my political group has been so proactive when dealing with the case and supporting the judicial investigation. that is why we welcome president metsola’s commitment and her proposals on strengthening integrity, independence and accountability as a good first step. and that is why we, the s&d group, have set up an internal inquiry and put forward a 15-point plan to prevent and combat corruption and corruptive political interference to complement president metsola’s proposals. and that is why we as the s&d group will unilaterally start to implement our plan where possible to lead by example. we hope that our proposal can also be the basis for stronger rules for the parliament as a whole, and we are looking forward to having that discussion with the other political groups. my political group strongly supports the revision of the parliament’s rules of procedure to align them with the eu whistleblower directive. we will also continue to advocate for an ethics body overseeing eu institutions and agencies to be set up before the end of this legislature. we therefore call on the commission to urgently come up with a proposal in this regard. it is indispensable that we tighten the screws when it comes to the implementation of the current provisions of the interinstitutional agreement on the transparency register. and we must also increase the information for the public, for example, by making it compulsory to publish all scheduled meetings with lobbies and interest representatives. we equally welcome the proposed strengthening of the special committee on foreign interference in all democratic processes in the european union, including disinformation, allowing it henceforth to identify measures to remedy shortcomings in the european parliament’s rules on transparency, integrity, accountability and anti-corruption. madam president, a high level of transparency can minimise the possibility for corruption and restore the trust that was lost by the criminal acts of a few. let us all work together to restore that trust.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, when the qatargate broke, we were all shocked and we all said we were going to clean up the stables at augia. but soon, the natural took over. the only words on the far right and far left of this house are 'qatar' and 'morocco'. i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations with the united states and that it has been able to reach a consensus on the matter. how do they travel? how do they finance themselves? we don't hear from him. nor is there anything about those members who refuse to call the holodomor a genocide committed against ukraine by russia or who refuse to support aid to ukraine. at the epp, we were first told that the best way to fight against foreign interference was to stop denouncing the human rights violations of foreign countries. that's a good idea. we have almost lost our emergency resolutions. the epp, for its part, was content to say that this was basically a problem of corruption among the socialists. oh, is that so? are we absolutely certain that no one else in this house has ever done anything wrong? i don't know. but what i am asking us to do is to sweep each other's front door, to clean up our own backyard, to finally be worthy of the trust that the voters have given us, of the mandate we carry, before these same voters finally say to themselves that with our little quarrels, we are all rotten at heart.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! it is very good that mrs loiseau has spoken about crimea, because indeed this destination has been mentioned, and it is very bad that some meps, and therefore the defence, were there, and i think that this matter should not be forgotten even in the flood of information about qatar. i think it's important to remember that we have regulations that are already in place to ensure transparency. i get the feeling that not everyone knows about it. i agree with chairman angel. also, be careful not to throw the baby out with the bath. because, for example, friendship groups are different. we have, for example, a group of friends from belarus, but not lukashenka, but 30 meps who are working with civil society, with independent journalists there, with social organizations that are persecuted. it's hard to imagine that a group like friends of a free iran, which fights for women's rights in iran, would cease to exist. so i think we need to approach this with a certain surgical precision. but i'm sure you'll agree that this is the biggest scandal in the history of the european parliament. although not the largest in the european union, because i remind you that 20 years ago the european commission was completely dismantled. it's good that there's a will to change, and that will needs to be supported.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, corrupt people are like vampires: they hate the light. so what i propose to you, ladies and gentlemen, is to shine a spotlight on the culture of generalized opacity which is doing so much harm to the european parliament and which has led to this corruption scandal that we all know. if, in fact, it is only in the last two months, since this scandal broke, that we can see how some political groups are quietly trying to quickly put the dust under the carpet and continue business as usual. it is practical, you will tell me, opacity: it allows us to be accountable to no one, especially not to the voters who elected us, but much more to private lobby groups or third states. so let me tell you a few selected excerpts from the closed-door conference of presidents which buried the very reforms which our parliament voted for last december. you have the epp absent, here, now , who bury the regulation of lobbies but launch a witch hunt against ngos. you have renew, who talks a lot about reform in public, but uses the secrecy of the conference of presidents to slow down any progress. and then the far right, true to itself, still absent elsewhere tonight, which is literally hiding from the ethical issues. the result is that 11 of the 15 proposals which parliament voted on have been buried. last december, we all said together here, hand on heart: our democracy is in danger. and the first thing our parliament does is to literally sit on a democratic vote. so i say to you, dear colleagues and sorry for this blow , how many times will we argue, scandal after scandal, pretend to be moved, while these practices continue? we have a resolution for december and we must implement it. otherwise, it is no wonder that voters will tell us that we are all a bunch of corrupt people, if we are not able to act after the biggest corruption scandal in the history of this parliament.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am from the epp, and i am still here; the epp is not a vacuum. mr olbrycht was there, but he has to go to another meeting. so you're gonna have to deal with me now, even if it doesn't suit you. the measures to be taken are often suggested by an ethics committee. first of all, i would like to repeat what was said very clearly earlier: there were criminal energies at work here, including a social democrat colleague and some other people who received funds and used them illegally or illegally. so it is not that we can solve the problem with an ethics committee. what an ethics committee can do, however, is what it already does in many other countries: give advice, make recommendations. what it cannot do, however - as some greens have suggested here - is to abolish the separation of powers. we want a clear separation of powers. that means that we do not want to have a disciplinary body or anything that involves prosecutorial rights, judicial rights and perhaps also those of parliament and the commission at the same time. we have a separation of powers here. an ethics committee can only make recommendations. secondly, there must be a blacklist of organisations which have been identified, prosecuted and convicted for certain activities such as hate speech, incitement to terrorism, religious fundamentalism or extremism, and which have misused and embezzled eu funds. in many cases, after a while, these organizations are no longer known, and neither are the individuals. it would be helpful for everyone if there were such a blacklist. it would also make it easier for us to deal with the transparency register, who we take in and who we do not take in.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the time has come for the european parliament to act. we must take the proposals on the table and demand that they be finally put into effect. haste is not a bad counselor, though. we will be as demanding and ambitious as possible in making our institutions more transparent and impervious to corruption, with measures to be implemented immediately and monitored. we also want deep structural reforms, the results of which will only be visible in the medium term. i am thinking of the new independent ethics body, which we socialists and democrats have always called for together with other political groups, but which some other groups have always blocked. this is where the european commission needs to make a real effort. president metsola's proposals are a good step forward, but they are not yet sufficient, first of all to deal with the revolving door issue, which requires a cooling-off period of five years. the commission is proposing six months, which is too short, especially compared with the 24 months currently available to european commissioners. we must achieve a balanced result, not by undermining the freedom of the members to exercise their mandate, a fundamental principle of democracy, but by making sure that we avoid any attempt to pollute and manipulate our democratic institutions.
madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, the corruption scandals directly affect the image of the european union and the trust our citizens have in the european construction. the populist and anti-european movement use all of that to blame the eu, but they do not care about solutions, they are even absent here today. but europe did not steal. the european union is not corrupted. but you speak about people that abused citizens trust and their functions for their own interest. all the eu institutions have to show zero tolerance on corruption, and this is what our political group is saying. it is not complicated and we should not hide behind bureaucratic arguments. i come from a country, romania, that did important reforms with the support of the european union, and we did it. all the romanian meps have to present annually integrity and wealth reports that are heavily checked. so we can do that at european level. so the european union has to show coherence and apply, of course, strict rules on all integrated issues at european level.
madam president, in december, in the face of the current money-laundering scandals, parliament decided to set up a committee of inquiry into cases of corruption by third countries and meps, and also a committee on transparency, to prevent representatives of qatari interests from entering parliament and to call for an eu-wide ban on donations from third countries to meps and political parties. in mid-january we had another debate, but no firm action was taken. at the end of january, thirty meps wrote to president metsola asking for swift action by the european parliament and pointing out that this corruption scandal was not limited to qatar. there are increasing indications that morocco would have acted in the same way, interfering in the democratic process of the european parliament, after paying meps, which shows that morocco is also involved with meps in a network of corruption organized for years to influence european decisions. several members of parliament are being attacked on the net for denouncing this. last thursday, the moroccan house of representatives even held a session with names and surnames, pointing the finger at several meps who denounced this interference and questioning the european parliament. integrity is a value that has been lacking here and it is time to recover it with firm and forceful measures that put an end to corrupt practices, both internal and external.
madam president, i am here on behalf of all the citizens of the european union, we are here on behalf of all the citizens of the european union. and so every meeting we have is not on our own behalf, but on behalf of european citizens in order to understand exactly what the needs and requirements of all citizens of the european union are. and so, as my colleagues from all the political parties have said, here in this parliament today that roberta metsola's proposals were good but very weak. they are the first step forward but there is still a long way to go. today i wanted to focus only on the meetings we have with those who have an interest, with those who come to represent different interests and we meet them because that is our duty. because in the proposals that president metsola has put before us he is not telling us that we should have a register, he is not telling us that we should register all of them, that they should be public, but we should only do those which are legislative. this is also contrary to what the european commission, in 2016, had proposed as the mandatory transparency register. i strongly believe that any meeting we have, with whomsoever it is, about whatever it is, should be a public meeting. some say this is impossible i encourage everyone, go to my website, still meet us even though we publish the minutes of every meeting we have with the interest representatives. (the speaker agreed to reply to a 'blue paper' speech)
blue-card reply. – i think that we could go back to the original proposal of the commission, when it proposed in 2016 the interinstitutional agreement for a mandatory transparency register. already there it was stated that while members of the european parliament should be transparent and register all their meetings, the same should be done for staff of the european parliament, for the council, as well as for the commission. i think that everyone who is going for meetings on behalf of citizens should be transparent and have all those meetings public.
madam president, first, our spouses, our parents, our children, and we ourselves are politically exposed persons and banks already apply enhanced due diligence on every single one of us. they check sources of our financial wealth for illicit activities. 17 years after we have obliged banks to do this, we still don't do it ourselves. now, the good thing is, of course, that in a december resolution parliament calls for mandatory declarations of meps assets at the start and at the end of the mandate. it's time to introduce this. just like in romania. second, we need to be alert for shady, dubious lobby methods. the launch of lobby leaks hotline by several cross-party meps and ngos aims to get early signals of these opaque methods. it's just two examples. just two examples where others do what the european parliament fails to do. that is frustrating. yes, it's time for action. time for transparency and public oversight. time to restore trust. it's time to step up to the plate, hit the ball and very hard.
madam chairman, i was a little bit challenged by my colleague aubry about whether there's ppe. so here we are, speaking in this debate, and my colleague hohlmeier, of course jan olbrycht and others have also spoken. on the merits of the matter, we support most of the proposals put forward by mrs metsol. i think more transparency about the meetings is entirely possible. i have no objection to it, and the blacklist certainly does not, which means that all those who break the rules must be placed on such a list, restricting access to the european parliament and so on. i'm just asking if mr panzeri, who is involved in this scandal and is no longer an mep, will keep a record of his meetings. we have to think of every detail. unfortunately, the debate has a little bit of a hold on me, too, where one person is making excuses for the other. please, let's stop making excuses for each other and try to do something about this mechanism. i think that we cannot rush this, i do not agree with my green colleague, but we must have a real result as soon as possible.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank you very much for today’s debate. i heard from many of you that you were speaking about trust, because this is the core thing in our debate, i guess. what we see in many different researches and data and different own observations is that the source of the decline or lack of trust from the sight of the citizens is always either abuse of power and/or corruption and/or a lack of communication or direct lying to people. i regret to say that we must be doing something wrong because the trust of the citizens is declining in almost all the member states. in some member states around or up to 40 % of people are giving us the report that they think that the democracy does not work for them. when we should have stronger democracy and stronger trust of the people in the institutions than now in the time of deep crisis. we already saw it in the pandemic time that we needed the trust of people. and now in the time of war, there is even a stronger demand for the trust of people. that’s why i myself was very shocked when the scandal appeared last year. because what we all know, the people do not differentiate as to whether it is the european parliament, the commission or the council. they just think there is something rotten in brussels or the eu as such is wrong. and it’s very dangerous. and it’s unfair because the reputation of the eu institutions, which was built over many years, can be very much devastated by only one scandal. i said many times in public speeches or to media that i believe that this very scandal is the failure of several individual people. but this is not enough to say that. we have to look into the system, whether it works. and i don’t believe that we can introduce a system which will discourage those who will want to steal from doing that. sorry for being that blunt. but i believe we have loopholes in the system. we can increase transparency. we can increase the anti-corruption measures. we can increase many different measures – some of them are also presented by president metsola – to make the system more robust and more trustworthy. that’s why we are discussing today, and i heard from many of you, that you also feel that it’s our obligation to look into the system and to improve it. the commission is now working on four things, which will come soon. and i think that we will be discussing the systemic changes which the commission will propose over the rest of this year at least. one of them is the work on the creation of the inter-institutional ethics body. i believe that we need the body, which will be pragmatic and meaningful, which will create the layer on which we need something, something which will connect the eu institutions by working on the common standards and many other things. i will be more detailed in explaining that tomorrow because we have a special plenary debate about that. we will be discussing the format and the scope of the ethics body with, i think, seven eu institutions, so it should not be only the commission, parliament and the council. more about it tomorrow. we will also propose the revision of the transparency rules. some of you spoke about it here. i think you remember the heavy debate we had 2020 and 2021 about how to increase transparency in the work of the commission, parliament and the council. i heard a lot about the freedom of the mandate of the members of the european parliament. indeed, we have to recognise fully the autonomy and specificity of each institution but, at the same time, i think that there is quite a bit of room for improvement of the transparency and to do it without damaging the efficiency of our work. the last two things we are working on are the anti-corruption strategy, where we should cover the eu institutions, and the defence of democracy package, which will focus on foreign interference – it will be connected with the topic which commissioner hahn before me covered here and where you had the discussion about the need to increase the transparency of foreign financing. so i wanted to complement what i said at the beginning to be now more concrete on ethics body, more tomorrow and on all the other things. i am very much looking forward to cooperation with parliament because what i felt here in this room today is that there is a very strong political will to improve the system.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 16 february 2023. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
in writing. the european parliament may create new registers, databases or declarations, but only if it also follows the 'once-only' principle, which is already in force in most eu member states. this means that the same information can only be requested once by a state or an institution. the information provided must be remembered and the citizen must be allowed to use it again. unfortunately, in the european parliament, one service does not know what the other has decided. information doesn't move between units. the assistant's assignment to south korea was approved, the embassy bought the tickets, and two days later, the ethics department said the trip was unacceptable. or 20 pages of documents, including the visit programme, were submitted to compensate for the air tickets, but no such information is entered in the relevant declaration register. the situation where a member or an assistant has to address his problem to different parliamentary units is not appropriate in the digital age.
the next item is the report by mr christophe grudler, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the union programme for secure connectivity for the period 2023-2027 (com (2022) 0057 c9-0045/2022 2022/0039 cod)) (a9-0249/2022).
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is a historic moment. we will vote for new european satellites, which will make the european union more autonomous in space. satellites that will be used to communicate in a highly secure way, that will be designed to be durable and that will be owned by the european union, to communicate both throughout europe and around the world. satellites that can also help europe's allies and friends. in fact, imagine you're a ukrainian soldier right now, on the ground in the cold of winter, and then all of a sudden your internet connection goes down. no way to communicate with your comrades or your command to share the information you've gathered: someone cut your connection. that someone today is elon musk, because the internet connection was provided by the satellites of his private company starlink. this is the scenario that is happening right now in ukraine, and it is totally unacceptable. we don't have to depend on the moods of one man. this is one of the reasons why it is essential that the european union acquire these new european iris satellites. so what are they gonna be? a few hundred satellites, which will be used to improve communication. first of all, for governmental purposes, whether it be our embassies, our fire departments, our emergency services, our military: all of them need secure communications to carry out their tasks, including through quantum and post-quantum cryptography, and this all over the world, from the baltic sea to the west indies. secondly, these satellites will serve directly the european citizens. commercial services will be offered to connect our citizens in remote and isolated areas to the internet. as rapporteur for the european parliament, i am proud of the progress we have made. i would like to thank my colleagues in the european parliament for this intelligent, cross-party work. under our leadership, these european iris satellites will be a global example of space and environmental sustainability. in practical terms, these satellites will have to be designed to emit as little co2 as possible during their manufacture and launch. they will have to provide systems to avoid the generation of debris and thus avoid turning the space into a giant landfill. finally, the fact that these satellites are spread over several orbits at different altitudes will reduce their number. here, the iris satellites will be a counter-model to the mega-constellations, which are made up of thousands of satellites. it is possible to do things differently without encroaching on space, and europe will prove it. now is the time to implement this programme quickly. to this end, i expect healthy and reasoned competition between european industrial players. it is their responsibility to work with intelligence to propose a rapid and innovative deployment of these satellites. in conclusion, i am pleased that these new european iris satellites significantly strengthen the strategic autonomy of the european union, with a real boost for our european space industrial base and strict eligibility criteria to ensure the security of this programme. after galileo, the european gps, copernicus, our eyes on the earth, we need the iris satellites to enable europe to communicate securely anywhere on the globe.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the secure connectivity programme is designed to launch a constellation of satellites. the iris infrastructure will allow to enhance european cybersecurity by integrating emerging technologies such as quantum technologies, enhancing the traditional satellite communications offering, stimulating innovation and opening up new markets. by increasing our fleet of satellites, we will be more competitive and have access to more stable and faster links. low and medium orbits are a sector with a great deal of room for development. in this respect, the azores archipelago has major space projects, including a new spaceport, which is precisely intended to serve as a base for launching small satellites. the azores islands have a unique set of characteristics with enormous potential for the space sector. they deserve our support and a greater commitment from the european union.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the speeches this evening, including the last ones, have really shown the interest that parliament has in space in general and in this programme in particular. i would like to assure you that the commission will do everything possible to ensure that the implementation phase of this programme also takes place in record time. i would like, if i may, to confirm three or four points that have been raised tonight. firstly, the primary use of iris, i repeat, i believe it is very important, will be governmental, and this therefore requires restricting participation to european actors as defined in the space programme. we know how to do it. we know how to do it with galileo, for example, so we obviously know how to do it. secondly, it will of course be necessary to attract one or more private partners. but let us not be mistaken, and i repeat, iris is first and foremost a government infrastructure, to which additional services will be added and potentially complementary infrastructure or commercial services. we will ensure, without compromising the security of the system, that the business partner or partners benefit from synergies with the government infrastructure as well as the opportunity, of course, of business, if i may put it that way. i would also like to remind you that the satcom market is growing by 5%, with non-geostationary satellites playing an increasingly important role. iris can be an opportunity for a private actor to serve segments like broadband, narrowband, or of course the internet of things. finally, the 30% target for start-ups and smes is clearly achievable. it will, however, be necessary for our innovative players to mobilise in order to be able to really seize these opportunities that are given to them. i'm confident, of course. we will do everything to attract them, including through flexible contracts and a so-called customer anchor strategy. we are therefore ready to develop iris rapidly and in an innovative way, while of course respecting the requirements of sovereignty objectives, as i mentioned earlier. finally, i take this opportunity to inform you that together with the high representative, josep borrell, we will present our space and defence strategy at the beginning of march, as a direct follow-up to the strategic compass. it will be the first text of its kind to integrate the whole spatial dimension into our new approach to defence and to propose a doctrine of space and defence, as we have been asked to do. this is an important strategy, a paradigm shift in which iris, of course, on its government side, will play its full role. i therefore count on parliament to support an ambitious approach to this.
the rapporteur. madam president, i thank my colleagues for their thanks, for their excellent work and for their constructive proposals. so, to answer a little bit to the 'catch-the-eye' questions and to the interventions, i am also in favour of affordable prices for this access to the internet that we will have tomorrow, without forgetting, however, that we are in a free market and that it is not possible to impose fixed prices. i am glad to see that the iris system will make it possible to provide universal service in the most remote, hardest-to-reach places, thus contributing to the democratisation of the system for the greatest number. so, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to conclude this debate with a wish: that the iris programme will be a turning point for a more ambitious, more united and more coherent european space policy. so, for me, a more ambitious space policy means more european space budget. europe's space budget is five times smaller than that of our american friends. the next revision of the multiannual financial framework must therefore be an opportunity to put more resources into our european space policy. secondly, a more united european space policy, which means less sterile competition between european countries and more collaboration, because we will succeed only together. finally, a more coherent european space policy means having a more identified european strategy and perhaps less fragmented competences between the different actors: euspa, esa, the commission, the national agencies. space is a strategic area which we probably do not talk about enough in this house. it's time that changed. i would like to conclude by replying to the colleague who made a 'catch-the-eye' speech on the affirmed will. i will quote a french author who said: "i tried but i never did anything, i wish i had done great things, and i will have done miracles". well, we want iris to be a great success in europe.
madam president, the biggest failure of the european union is that it has missed the digital revolution. you didn't see the arrival of data, mobile phones, tablets and ai. europe has neither gafam nor batx, and in terms of technology, you only have to present the pitiful and endless galileo dossier. your answer, which is strictly normative, does not make up for the shortfall in numbers. the breakthrough of chatgpt technology provides the answer. chatgpt is this conversational intelligence that processes data into text. it threatens google directly. the entry ticket for this technology was affordable: one billion, knowing that the price is rising fast. the moral of this story is that we can get back in the digital race if we can take advantage of the technological interstices and find breakthrough innovations that bypass the digital giants. we have intelligence in europe. we need political will and the mobilisation of resources. this is the approach that must mobilise europe.
madam president, relations between the european union and morocco are at their worst. the vote on the european parliament resolution calling into question the moroccan court's decision on omar radi was the trigger for a crisis that had been brewing for a long time. the kingdom of morocco is a pillar of our policy in africa and the mediterranean, and this situation is particularly worrying. while all meetings are being analysed to determine whether or not they are foreign interference, i also note that the western sahara study group continues to regularly promote the polisario front's theses and relay those of algeria in this part of the world. after the court events of this weekend, the eu-morocco joint committee is no longer in a position to continue its work. it is absolutely essential that parliament appoint a new co-chairman as soon as possible. the last meeting of this committee was in may 2022 and it would be particularly useful today for parliamentary diplomacy to play its role in the midst of tensions. our relationship with morocco is essential in terms of migration, economic, security and geopolitics. we must preserve it and resume the dialogue.
madam president, commissioner, this report, which marks the end of the combustion engine in 2035, is the most striking example of the total disconnect between the european elites and our citizens. it also cuts off any initiative by car manufacturers, locking them into an 'all-electric' logic that will not benefit consumers or the environment. these new standards, which are particularly burdensome for our industries, will not change the climate, and you know that very well. your doctrine, which is to measure pollution only at the exit of the exhaust pipes, is an ecological fraud. this helps to hide under the carpet all the pollution from the extraction of rare metals, which are necessary for the design of batteries, but, obviously, it suits you well. worse still, in countries like congo, this extraction is made possible by the massive use of child labour, many of whom die from landslides or poor sanitation. this lack of humanity, sir, is sickening. so your selfish project is to shift pollution from inner cities to the third world. so reject this text, relaunch innovation on hydrogen and synthetic fuel, and stop making the car manufacturer the scapegoat for the ecological transition.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the field of punitive ecology, the european union is characterised by the 'ever more'. the ecological transition cannot be like the chinese cultural revolution. this is all the less justified in the case of motorists, since it is known that cars are not the main cause of pollution. by going after them, you're in the scapegoat's mind. you cannot act against reality, against people, often modest, for whom the car is not a luxury but a necessity. you cannot go on with the 'all electric' when we have neither the production capacity nor the control of the components essential to the industry. your approach once again shows a decidedly ideological background, the same one that led you to excommunicate nuclear energy, which is decarbonised. this excommunication has sealed europe's energy dependence and this blindness is now leading our countries into a crisis whose price we have not yet paid.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, the istanbul convention is an important text in the fight against violence against women and we are of course supporting its cause. throughout its recent history, europe has been the civilization which has enabled women to take their full place in society, by sanctifying their rights, by sacralizing their freedoms, by striving to offer women and men the same opportunities to rise in society. we must always remember that our values, the values of our history, of europe, which place men and women on an equal footing, will always be vastly superior to those of cultures which enslave women, imprison them behind a veil, subject them to genital mutilation, prohibit them from going to school, having a job, driving or going out on the streets alone. this is the position of the ngo yavuz sultan selim, a turkish islamic nationalist fraternity funded by the european commission to the tune of eur 31 000 and thus by taxpayers' money. how could these obscurantists, for whom women's freedom is synonymous with offense, who are accustomed to violently anti-semitic and homophobic remarks, who justified yesterday's attacks on the bataclan, have received a single cent of public money? how can you talk about protecting women's rights, but at the same time support with taxpayers' money the enemies of women and the enemies of europe? how can you tolerate those who want to destroy us today? by setting europe on the islamic hour, you are preparing our nations for an inevitable retreat in women's rights and freedoms. if you want to foil this project, you'll always find us in your path.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, some of us have been calling for years for the ratification of the istanbul convention. after the court of justice gave the green light, there is no longer any excuse for not proceeding to immediate ratification by the council. the criticisms of this convention are ridiculous, as is the request by the polish prime minister for a constitutional review. the convention simply sets minimum standards for governments to prevent, protect and punish violence against women and domestic violence. all things i consider more than normal. the failure of some countries to ratify is a slap in the face to all abused women, to this european union and to the values we stand for. not intervening is complicity. gender-based violence is a scourge that, if left untreated, will continue to plague our societies. as the european union today we have two choices: we have to decide whether we will ratify the istanbul convention and have all the tools to fight violence against women, saving thousands of lives, or whether we will turn around and hide behind a little red tape. i can't turn around.
madam president, madam commissioner, do you remember that famous phrase of hillary clinton at the united nations: 'women's rights are human rights'? well, six member states have still not ratified the istanbul convention, including latvia, whose president we were hosting earlier, who stressed the importance of the rule of law. women's rights are part of the rule of law. so, as we are actively working on the directive to combat violence against women, particularly in the world of work - madam commissioner, you mentioned this - we have gone from 11 to 31% of violence at work. as we reaffirm the importance of sexual and reproductive rights, which we particularly in the renew europe group attach great importance to, we are counting on the swedish presidency to have the courage to finally propose the ratification of the istanbul convention by the european union.
mr president, madam commissioner, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, equality between women and men is a human right and a prerequisite for social justice. these are the words of the first paragraph of the beijing declaration. yet, by 2023, we are far from having achieved the objectives of this declaration. the resolution we are voting on tomorrow is therefore particularly important in order to address to the council our recommendations for the annual session of the united nations commission on the status of women. our demands are ambitious - on women's empowerment, on the fight against violence, on the right to control one's body - and they should be unanimous in our parliament. however, this is not the case. i regret that one political group has missed the umpteenth opportunity to defend women's rights in practice and has presented a rather medieval alternative text. i therefore urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote massively for the text we have negotiated in the femm committee. not a single voice must be missing to defend our right to abortion, our bodies, our choices, our rights.
mr president, i am sorry to see that in this resolution you have omitted certain priorities for women. the text we are about to vote on is partly disconnected from the daily lives of women and girls. indeed, not a word about the growing insecurity in europe, street harassment or radical islam, factors exacerbated by mass and uncontrolled immigration. nor does the resolution address the difficult working conditions of professions with a high proportion of women in certain sectors, such as care or education, the precariousness of some mothers or the complex balance between work and family life. in france, while emmanuel macron, under pressure from the european union, is trying to reform the pension system, no solution is being proposed to revive the birth rate of european women. together with the id group, we tabled an alternative resolution which takes up the major issues for women. but, as every year, this one will certainly not be put to the vote. it is clear that you are perhaps often more concerned with integrating the gender perspective into all eu policies than with tackling some crucial issues.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, my group, renew europe, together with other political groups, wanted this debate and this resolution because we felt it was urgent to start negotiations on the interinstitutional ethics committee. my group has been carrying the issue since 2019, and qatargate has proved us right: self-control is not enough and its politicization discredits us collectively. only the independence of the control can dispel doubts once and for all. only by making controls more professional will our institutions be able to live in peace. i'd like to share with you some of the beliefs that we have collectively at renew. first, the ethics body is the best way to restore trust and integrity in the european institutions. it is the best way to prevent and remedy conflicts of interest. there are many of them, and we analyse them in the course of various processes: at the level of the juri committee, when nominating the candidate commissioners, and, in particular, when leaving parliament, when they are going to do something else with their lives. the ethics committee is also the best way to check all financial statements, including those on wealth. it is the best way for europe to catch up on transparency and ethics. i therefore hope that the commission will make some progress on this matter. in 2019, ursula von der leyen was committed to it, in 2021, this parliament voted, in 2022, we confirmed that vote. that authority is, to me, really the cornerstone of our transparency and our collective ethics in these institutions. my group wants a solution by the summer. my socialist colleague was asking you, madam vice-president, when will the commission be able to make a proposal to us? i think that all this must happen as soon as possible because the populist, anti-parliament and anti-european forces will play a big part in the mistrust that this case has aroused in parliament for our fellow citizens, especially with regard to the 2024 elections. it's a common sense reform. this body is the guarantee of the effectiveness of our internal reform. it is time to create the european ethics body.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, the european parliament, caught up in the so-called 'qatargate' scandal, revealed by an investigation into criminal gangs, corruption and money laundering involving former or current members of the european parliament, mainly socialists, is now trying to divert attention. it calls for the creation of an independent ethics body covering all the eu institutions, agencies and bodies, with investigative or advisory powers. however, contrary to what is announced, its implementation would be complex at first. how could the european union create a structure independent of itself? it is also a negation of existing structures, particularly in the commission and parliament. for example, in addition to its code of conduct on financial interests and conflicts of interest, the latter has set up a committee on external interference. ironically, the chairman of this committee, a french socialist, spent his time blaming the national rally for all the ills, while his own socialist friends were taking part in the biggest scandal the european parliament has ever known. all these structures have seen nothing or wanted to see nothing of the "qatargate" and the other suspicions that it brings up. there is no need for a more generalist structure, which would surely lead to the same lack of results. this request for a new ethics body is above all a pretext to oppose the creation of an immediate parliamentary committee of inquiry, which i have been insisting on since the beginning of this case. by trying to drown the fish and make it appear that 'qatargate' is only about a few corrupt people, the european parliament wants to avoid questioning itself. the major problem is structural. it is the system put in place by the europeans that is at issue, and it is this system that must be transformed. but a majority of meps will do everything to avoid this necessary change, which is why they voted against our request for a committee of inquiry and tried to light up forged ones. this ethics body is the latest. we denounce this new scheme and we are resolutely opposed to its creation.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, it took the worst corruption scandal in the history of the european parliament for this house to remember the urgent need to set up an independent ethics authority. we have nevertheless raised the alarm since the beginning of this mandate, three years ago, by denouncing the multiple conflicts of interest of several european commissioner candidates and by getting several of them turned away. the president of the european commission had put it on her agenda then, but it has since disappeared into oblivion. so we wait again, and again, and again. in france, the fraud case of the budget minister cahuzac helped to unblock things with the creation of the high authority for the transparency of public life. the devastating symbol of 'qatargate' and its disastrous images of suitcases of money that look like they came out of a gangster movie must lead to the same political response. if we do not do it now, colleagues, when will we do it? we know that the current ethical standards are inadequate. it's almost a joke between us, but the framework for their implementation is even more absurd. how can we hope to put an end to meps' conflicts of interest if meps themselves are supposed to be self-regulating? at this point, we might as well ask monsanto to regulate and end gmos. the result is that the case is buried, and it is clear that our only objective here must be to set up this independent body. everyone knows it and no one dares to dispute it in public. but the commission has been leading us astray for four years by postponing ad vitam aeternam the introduction of the ethical authority. and you know what? it's not surprising. the former european commissioner avramopoulos received €60,000 from the fake ngo fight impunity, at the heart of qatargate, but commission president von der leyen finds nothing wrong with it. commissioner schinas has made no less than 3 trips, 26 tweets, 9 interviews, 3 complacent speeches to the qatari authorities, but mrs von der leyen finds nothing wrong with that. the moment we are living in is a disgrace, it is reaching the very credibility of the institutions. the minimum we owe to the citizens who elected us... (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr president, an independent ethics body in response to corruption scandals in parliament, elected officials of integrity, free to serve the common good of the people who elected them: who could object to that? i welcome this initiative. our institution can only gain from this. ethics, synonymous with integrity and freedom, requires strict respect for the law, and what applies to parliamentarians also applies to our institutions. neither the commission nor the elected representatives can ignore the law derived from the texts governing its organization. by shamelessly departing from the spirit and the letter of the treaties to criticise the free and democratic choice of certain nations, by arrogating to itself powers outside the sphere of those entrusted to it - health yesterday, defence tomorrow - the commission is profoundly corrupting its legitimacy. it is this deep corruption of our institutions that led to brexit. if nothing is done, this systemic corruption will lead to the demise of the european union. the europe of nations cooperating freely deserves that we should take up this great task. i hope - but i don't believe for a moment - that this desire for ethics is sincere and that it improves our institutions. i believe, unfortunately, that corruption runs deep.
mr president, commissioner, the confidence of the european citizens in us has been seriously damaged by the recent revelations of corruption in our parliament. then, of course, no procedure can prevent the corrupt few from being. but we must recognize that our system has shown its limits: it is based solely on a self-regulatory approach which is not sufficient. our institutions need more independent, effective and fair assessment of conflicts of interest and ethical rules. we brought this idea to france during the 2019 european campaign, the european commission took it up in its political guidelines at the beginning of its mandate, and our parliament voted in favour of this idea as early as september 2021. all the conditions are therefore in place for progress. so, outsourcing control of our institution is not a matter to be taken lightly. all the parliaments in the world are asking this question. we have done so in france: it is an example from which we can draw inspiration, with the good practices and possible improvements that a few years of operation reveal. it is not a question of banning lobbying, or of exhibiting, or of calling into question, or of hindering the freedom of mandate of members, or of attempting to separate powers, but of having a clear appreciation of what is forbidden, what is allowed and what must be declared. it is also, and above all, about spreading a culture of integrity, control and transparency. the challenge for us is a great one: to put our european institutions back among the most advanced in terms of preventing conflicts of interest and to restore citizens' trust. the ball is now in the commission's court, and the proposal voted by our parliament 18 months ago could provide a useful basis for discussion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, some members are selling europe with bags of money, others with overpaid lectures: it is as old as time. how can we explain that mr barroso and mr monti, two former members of the european commission, sell conferences for more than 100 000 euros? the qatar case is the tree that hides the forest of scandals from mckinsey to pfizer, and you know it. so, to make matters worse, you are announcing today the creation of an independent ethics body. who are we kidding? the von der leyen commission should clean up its act and set an example. madam, the sms are official documents of the european union. i'm a member of the special committee on the covid-19 pandemic, and we're not even damned good at getting albert bourla, ceo of pfizer, to speak to us ten minutes away. we want to know why he's texting mrs. von der leyen and why he's got a contract for 2.4 billion doses. my colleagues and i have learned from the press that pfizer-biontech is renegotiating a delivery of 500 million doses until 2024, with hidden prices and against the advice of member states who want to stop the charges. in total, the commission has concluded contracts for vaccines worth €71 billion that do not prevent the transmission or the capture of covid-19. with, as a bonus, a pro-pfizer thought police, enforced within the digital platforms through a code of conduct that excludes the differing opinions of doctors and scientists. and you're talking about ethics and independence? if you want the independence of this ethics committee, appoint a member of our political group, for example a member of the rn, as its chairman.
mr president, commissioner, how many suitcases of bills will it take, how many suitcases, before you finally decide to publish a legislative proposal? four years ago, ursula von der leyen announced the creation of a body to monitor conflicts of interest and corruption. a year and a half ago, a report from parliament asked you to set up this ethics body, and you did nothing. two months ago, the "qatargate" scandal put us all to shame! the biggest corruption scandal in the history of the european union: suitcases of money found under the beds of meps. we thought that only happened in the movies. we can imagine the reaction of the citizens when they received the notification on their phones, the same citizens who are so difficult to interest in europe. the european commission is going to wake up. two months later, still nothing. if parliament had the right of legislative initiative, this ethics body would already be in place. we are meeting with the representatives of the various political groups to agree on a joint emergency resolution. and we will insist, once again, and we can say it in all languages given that we are lucky here in the european parliament to have interpreters in 24 languages: please get involved! present your proposal for an independent ethics body! on this valentine's day, i remind you that there is no love without love, and there is no ethics without an ethical body.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps we should put all this in context. on the one hand, a professional code of ethics should have moral reflections and judgments. some, however, have sunk into a katargate affair which is not only a moral dilemma but a criminal act and we need to make a distinction. there is no question that we need to work to improve transparency and integrity in decision-making at the european union level. however, we also witnessed continuous attempts to interfere in the democratic process, which intensified the election cycle in particular. in order to ensure the consistency of the union's financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, the union should contribute to the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and sound budgetary discipline. parliament is not the police, however. parliament doesn't prosecute, and we need to be clear about whose jurisdiction it is. the establishment of an independent ethics body may be a step forward, but in what sense? it is important that we establish a system to ensure that the level of checks in our institutions is maintained, that the balance of powers is maintained. in the spirit of democracy and democratic debate, we must not close our doors, but we must set up filters to protect the interests of the european union and our citizens, because remember: there are vested interests, there are interests of democratic interference in our systems and often destabilising factors that interfere in different ways with our european values. ladies and gentlemen, we also need to set up clear rules, for example for lobbyists, but as i said, we should not close the door to anyone. our citizens have had their eyes wide open and have had faith in this institution. so let's give them that trust back and let's not have any more "katargate" but let's be careful about what, who and where they do.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it was 2019 when you, vice-president jourová, were given the responsibility of setting up an independent ethics body, common to all the institutions of the european union. we have always worked with other groups in this direction as socialists and democrats, while other political forces have maintained ambiguous positions or even openly opposed it. years have passed, and there is no sign of this organism. the time for postponements is now over. the full implementation of the current rules on transparency and ethics must be ensured, in particular by strengthening the code of conduct for meps. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european company. the body will have to assess any incompatibilities and make proposals to improve transparency and accountability in relation to secondment of members, in order to prevent any conflicts of interest. finally, we want to see clear penalties where there is evidence of inconsistencies or breaches. there must be no misunderstanding. this is not the time for disengagement, for delegating to third parties or for a catalogue of rules which could be seen as a sort of straitjacket to be evaded by someone. corruption is an internal enemy of the proper functioning of institutions. the resources to combat it can and must therefore come from within the institutions first and foremost, through action supported by responsible institutional ethics, aimed at mutual support of best practices to foster transparency, control and greater capacity for action, to avoid conflicts of interest also with those outside the institutions. the scandal that has undermined the foundations of our european home has shown us that we cannot wait any longer. let us act together now, because the future of europe is at stake.
mr president, i would like to thank you. corruption is a poison, a deadly poison, which threatens the credibility of our democratic institutions both nationally and in the european union. in many ways qatargate has revealed a frightening problem of corruption right here in this house, right here in the european parliament. these have been important revelations and they call for political action. we are faced with an urgent need to combat foreign influence through corruption. since 2020, i've been working on russian and chinese disinformation and cyberattacks. but it is quite clear that we have not paid enough attention to what could be called simple corruption. cash in a plastic bag, so to speak. we must of course change this, and that is why a new european body such as the one we are proposing, which will deal with corruption, among other things, is an important first step. that's far from all we have to do. we must also be careful that in our eagerness to do something we do not point our guns in the wrong direction, for example, with regard to lobbyists. we must of course allow lobbyists, we must allow people to have access to this house, but we must make sure that we do something and we must do something now.
mr president, transparency and accountability are easy and simple requirements to put in place and so it remains a mystery why it is taking us so much time to make it happen. we have been cowardly and weak, because at the same time we were very eager to ask for transparency and accountability from others – from businesses, corporations, lobbyists, democracies, countries, institutions and now ngos. of course, when you don’t want to take action and when you don’t want to be scrutinised, the best thing to do is to find a scapegoat. some now are using a narrative which criminalised ngos in the same way that liberal democracies do in order to avoid dealing with our own lack of rules and implementation. there is another argument preventing us from concrete measures – the famous ‘additional burden’. but it is not that complicated to give straightforward information about assets; how wealthy we were at the start of the political term, and how wealthy we are at the end – because no enrichment should be considered normal in our parliament duty. maybe, it is time to discuss what a public mandate is and what the general interest is. we have very good conditions of work. they make us efficient parliamentarians. we can commission studies, we can travel using our own expenses, we can meet different stakeholders, we can organise hearings. we should be informed members, but independent in the way we take our legislative decision. and such an independence, in such good conditions, demands high integrity. this level of integrity is possible if we have an ethics body, which monitors the three european institutions in a serious way. when such an authority was created in france, it dramatically increased awareness and morality in political life. it is an indispensable tool to fight corruption. let’s stop finding excuses, looking for the guilty party elsewhere. let’s stop these stories and scandals around commissioners and meps. let’s be a 21st century democracy, healthy and secure, one in which policies are made for the common good and not in the interest of a few people.
mr president, europe only advances in crises. how bitter that little phrase tastes when it comes to describing what we're going through. it took a corruption scandal in our own parliament for anyone to think of setting any sensible ethical rules. i welcome the proposals made by the president of our assembly and call for their immediate implementation. but i'm surprised, to say the least, that they don't go further. when will we finally launch the construction of an independent ethics authority for all european institutions, as we have been proposing since 2019? it seems that the largest group in this parliament - at least in number - is not in favour of this, on the pretext of preserving the freedom of mandate. but what freedom is there when it comes to fighting corruption? as a french elected official, i feel no less free in the exercise of my mandate because i declare my assets and income to an independent french authority, which verifies them. for years this parliament has lived in the shadow of the co-management imposed by two political groups, the epp and the s&d, on all their colleagues. appointments, regulations, good and bad practices - everything went through them! in view of the shipwreck of qatargate, it is time for our parliament to have a professional, non-political administration and for its functioning to be independently audited. that is how we will regain the trust of our electorate, which has been neglected for years.
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, it took suitcases of cash and bundles of bills hidden under diapers to get things moving. why did he wait so long? the creation of this independent body to monitor european public life was voted on right here in 2021. today is the time for action and it will be even more so when the media attention has moved on to something else. let us create, without further delay, this ethical authority capable of tackling conflicts of interest, the slippery slope, the colonization of the public space by private interests. let us extend the authority of this body to the commissioners, the members of the european parliament, all the staff working for the institutions, before, after and during their term of office or service. let us give it oversight and the right to investigate, and its decisions will be binding. and let's not be afraid, let's also trust him with the power to punish. the credibility of our institutions is at stake. the fight against corruption is not a matter of morality: it is a matter of survival for our democracies, a matter of sovereignty for the european union. today, how are we seen in doha, moscow, beijing? we're seen as people to be bought, to be bribed. we do not want this body simply because we want to moralize public life. it is because we want to defend the sovereignty of european citizens and to affirm that europe, in defending its principles, is also faithful to its vital interests. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question by mr glinne)
blue-card reply. – well actually that’s not the name i would have picked, because in france, if i’m quoting my country – sometimes it does things right – it’s called the high authority on the transparency of public life, which i think is better because we should not put it on the moral ground. it’s a question of the survival of democracy. it’s a political issue, and it’s a legal issue. it’s not a moral issue. i don’t care if you are not moral. what i care is that you respect the rules and you respect the trust of the people who voted for you and sent you in these institutions. so if i were to write it, i would call it the high authority on the transparency of public life.
president karas, commissioner jourová, president of the council, in september 2021, this european parliament adopted a resolution calling for an interinstitutional agreement to set up an ethics body that would make the declarations of economic interests and incompatibilities of members of the european parliament transparent and accessible. but now he's asking for more. it calls for a legislative act: a european law ensuring that consequences are drawn from the lack of veracity of such declarations of interests; establishing the protection of whistleblowers who report any irregular or corrupt act that may take place in a european institution; coordinating that body with olaf, the prosecutor's office, europol, the court of justice and the court of auditors, and above all reinforcing the principle of citizens' trust in the european parliament and stating very clearly that if there is anyone in the european institutions who assumes individual criminal responsibility for committing a crime, an act of corruption, in no case can it be pointed out that the mechanisms of transparency, authenticity checks and sanctions of an independent body are the ones that have failed, because this has now been the case.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for today’s debate and thank you all who stayed here because i have several papers of notes and only four minutes to speak – maybe i will be a little bit longer if the president will allow me. i wanted to react on the many different comments and proposals which i heard here. but to start, when mr lópez aguilar finished and many of you said it here today, we speak about a serious matter, something which is connected with the need to strengthen democracy and increase the trust of people, of the citizens. there are three main reasons why the trust of citizens is declining: abuse of power, corruption and lack of transparency and lack of honest communication. and we discussed here about how to increase the trust of the citizens, especially after the scandal which is now resonating in our member states and in the minds of the citizens. i will come with concrete comments on the ethics body in a minute. allow me just to say that we are working on the very concrete proposal which will also take lessons from indeed two years of consultations which we went through – because we were not passive, as some of you indicated, we were consulting, we were addressing the institutions under article 13. i will come back to that. the response was that there is no appetite to join the ethics body in case we establish it. at some moments it looked like a plan to establish the ethics body, which would be just a bilateral agreement between the parliament and the commission. and mr freund was speaking to me many times about that and i was really frustrated that we are not able to, sorry to say it, sell this idea to other institutions. now we will do again better because i think that what the institutions need to see is the concrete proposal, which the commission will come with the parameters, and i will speak about it. this ethics body and its establishment falls under the broader scope of a list of actions, which the commission is planning. one is the anti-corruption strategy and harmonisation of the sanctions for corruption. another one is the defence of democracy, which should deal with the transparency of financing from the third countries. the transparency register – i will ask the parliament to come back to the negotiating table and speak about how to upgrade the system which we achieved between 2020 and 2021. and indeed some of you spoke about the need to upgrade the rules for lobbying. i fully agree and this is what we will try to focus on. the commission will upgrade the rules for the access to documents, to reflect on the new communication ways – because on access to documents, i didn’t manage to convince the parliament to withdraw the directives. but coming back to the ethics body, i said clearly that we need the ethics body and the commission will propose the first draft during march and we will invite the institutions which in our view should participate. it’s the european parliament, it’s the european council, it’s the council, of course the commission, the european central bank, then the european court of auditors, the european court of justice, the committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee. these are the institutions listed under article 13. so we will consult in march for the first time on the basis of a very concrete proposal, which will contain the information or the idea of the commission regarding the scope, competences, composition of the body, the administrative matters – probably also finance, because we should be aware of how much the model will cost. we all know that we need the money for many, many things now we are in deep crisis. i want to propose something which will be politically feasible, but also meaningful, which will solve the issues which we discussed here. we heard from several members of the parliament that this model has to be well thought through because this might be about investigation and probably also sanctioning. well, we need to be aware of that, that to create the new body and give it the competences we have to have a sufficiently legally sound proposal. and we need to consult very intensively. so this will come in march – for you who asked about the time frame. but let me also react on what i heard here, because i think the expectations are very high and i believe that we should be aware of what the ethics body will not be, in my view. and again, i said clearly that we need it and i agree with all of you who said it. the impression from the debate was for me that we do not have sufficiently functioning structures and enforcement of the rules at the level of individual institutions and it’s not true. ms hautala said ‘let’s focus on our rules and let’s improve the rules and enforcement of the rules per institution’. and i very much appreciate what president metsola came with – those 12 points which are an important step forward. we are doing our homework in the commission. simply the rules of each institution will be as important as ever because the ethics body is not replacing them, cannot replace them. this is the extra layer. so please, let’s not say we don’t have rules, we don’t have structures. each institution is equipped and can and should do what’s necessary to be done. the second thing, sorry, those images of the members of the parliament or the commission just travelling with the suitcase full of cash. we have measures in case the cash is the proceeds of criminal activity. we have olaf, we have eppo, and we have national prosecution. so an ethics body will not replace the investigatory powers which we already have for the cases of criminal activities. and last but not least, i have to say i was shocked when – who was it? i want to be concrete – i think madame chaibi – she is not here anymore – said, ‘there is no ethics without an ethics body’. sorry, i am offended by that, because we all have our responsibility. we have high functions and we should have some moral compass without having the ethics body. sorry, an ethics body will not replace our individual responsibilities. so i just want us to be aware what the body will not be. i will propose what we think it should be and i believe that by creating the body, which will harmonise the standards so that there are common sets of rules for everybody who works in the institutions, it will be a very important step forward. and i will not go into details how we want to propose the composition, but i would really like to propose something which will be practically usable, which will deliver the results. some of you spoke about the investigatory powers. we have to think it over because just an illustration – in 2020 we had 4 500 disciplinary cases in the commission. and they were investigated by our structure, our internal body. that’s why i was referring to internal bodies of each of the institutions, which have to deal with the cases. so for the ethics body, definitely the setting of standards, declaration of assets, with this question mark of how to do it, conflicts of interest. let’s work together on something which will be, as i said, meaningful and legally sound. this is my dear wish that we together produce and bring to life something which will be well functioning already, hopefully this year. but referring to the debate about the transparency register, which was the interinstitutional negotiation of three institutions, i remember how difficult it was. so here the ambition is to have eight institutions and we will see how it works. i didn’t want to come with any excuses why the commission didn’t act. i just wanted to explain that this is a heavy task and that we were not passive but now i agree with all of you who said now is the momentum and the expectations are rightly very high.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, many thanks for this timely and topical debate and for the different views expressed on what an eu ethics body should look like. let me also say that the council shares the concern of all the other institutions, including parliament, about the rise of foreign interference and its impact on democratic processes in the eu and elsewhere. for a number of years, the council has been steadily working on strengthening our common instruments and addressing these threats. as i said in my first intervention, we stand ready to consider the work on the coming proposal, which the commission will submit for the set—up of an eu ethics body. as many of you have pointed out, we all need to live up to the high expectations and standards when it comes to ethics and transparency. otherwise, there is a risk that citizens will lose their belief in european institutions and democracy. once again, thank you very much for the debate and your attention.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 16 february 2023. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i have two announcements to make before we move on to the next item on the agenda. one is that mrs chiara gemma will leave the group of the party of the left (nifrakion) and will join the ecr group with effect from 15 february 2023.
the s&d group and the non-attached members have sent the president decisions on the change of appointments to committees and delegations. these decisions are entered in the minutes of today's meeting and will come into force on the day of this announcement.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the response to the situation in tunisia (2023/2556 (rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you for this exchange on a significant topic concerning our important partner and neighbour. the basic elements of the european union’s policy regarding tunisia remain the same following the tunisian constitutional referendum. the eu continues to support the tunisian people in times of major socio—economic challenges, aggravated by the impact of the russian aggression against ukraine. there is a need for urgent structural economic reforms. we believe it is essential to achieve a broad consensus among the various political forces in tunisia for a process to preserve the democratic acquis. following parliamentary elections, the country should return to the normal functioning of its institutions. there should be full respect for democratic principles, in particular the separation of powers, the rule of law, pluralism and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. the european union and tunisia have a shared interest in cooperation on a large number of issues, including security, trade and migration. we should make the best of our association agreement to make progress in these and other areas. finally, let me reassure you that the council will continue to closely monitor the situation on the ground and work with all the relevant stakeholders, including civil society. i am sure that this parliament shares our main objectives and will also contribute to the eu’s overall effort to support tunisian democratic process.
member of the commission. – mr president, minister, honourable members. i want to thank you for this exchange today. tunisia finds itself at a difficult juncture, both politically and economically. our partner, and neighbour, is undergoing a delicate transitional period. we witnessed many changes in the country in the past year and a half. the eu is worried about some of the measures adopted in tunisia in the past few months. what today adds to our concerns is indeed the worsening economic situation in tunisia. a country that was already suffering structural fragilities was then further hit by the consequences of the covid-19 pandemic and now by the damaging impact of the russian aggression against ukraine. since the 2011 revolution, the eu has provided more than eur 3 billion in support of the tunisian democratic transition. in addition, we supported the tunisian people during the pandemic, as team europe and via our contributions to the covax platform. we will keep standing by the tunisian people now that their situation is even more challenging. the eu is well aware of the complexities of the current socioeconomic context in tunisia. the important reforms it needs to accomplish in order to ensure long term prosperity can be painful. this is why the eu welcomes the agreement reached at technical level between the tunisian administration and the international monetary fund. it is now urgent that the agreement is signed. we need to see a clear commitment from the tunisian government to carry out the structural reforms that they have proposed to the fund. the eu remains committed to accompanying tunisia and the implementation of these important measures. under the current political circumstances in tunisia, an inclusive dialogue with all relevant political and civil society actors remains crucial. ensuring the largest consensus possible is fundamental to ensuring successful reforms and sustainable growth. this is a message we have been passing to our tunisian partners in the past months and we reconfirm today.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. what we have seen and heard here is a denial of reality on the part of the council and the commission. tunisia was once a beacon of hope after the arab spring, and we are back to square one in terms of the situation. we are much closer to ben ali than any other democratic politician since 2011. and we have witnessed a coup d'etat from above, from president saied. he has dismissed the government, dismissed the parliament and abolished the high judicial council and dismissed 57 judges. and we have a situation where we are witnessing the delegation by the tunisian people: 11 percent voter turnout in these elections. i was wondering why you started with the referendum. you'll have to start at the top with the coup. what the venice commission said about the behaviour of this president was a devastating verdict. and the african union court of justice also made a clear political statement last september. the elections were boycotted by all relevant parties, the trade union umbrella organisation, civil society and you ignore that here. it must make a difference in our politics whether we have someone here who is upholding the constitution or whether he is breaking it. it must make a difference whether he respects an elected parliament or abolishes it. the tunisians have given their answer. and i think that the european union cannot do business as usual here, otherwise we can actually abolish all our values, which we always maintain in our sunday speeches. i find it unheard of what i haven't heard here today. you're making a policy here that denies the reality of this country. it is likely that tens of thousands of tunisians will have to get on board before reality is recognized here. this president, what is happening in tunisia at the moment, must not receive our support. we must draw the consequences and change the course of events.
on behalf of the s&d group. - mr president! respectfully, good evening. as my predecessor has said, democracy in tunisia has been under great pressure for more than a decade. the recent elections have not only strengthened confidence in democracy and institutions, but have also shaken it further. we in the socialist and democratic group are very concerned about the extremely low voter turnout and also about the extremely low representation of women in elections. all of this reflects the extraordinary distrust of the people of this country in the president and his reforms. and this election, my friends, is a clear symptom of the dangerous slide of this country into a dark time. we are witnessing a regression of democracy. arresting judges, trade union leaders, opposition figures. this further builds the faith and trust of tunisians in the authorities and in politics. the people who are paying the highest price in this crisis are the people who are doing it. many, as mentioned earlier, are already leaving the country. without serious change, we will witness the loss of entire generations of humanity. without the necessary economic and political reforms, the country cannot access the necessary new loans from the international monetary fund. we therefore call on president said to change course and bring the country back to democracy, to ensure full representation of all citizens and to ensure the functioning of the institutions. we also call on the member states and the commission to monitor the situation in the southern mediterranean closely, so that the european union can engage in dialogue with the authorities and offer help to the people.
for the greens/efa group mr president, my colleagues have said that, but i will repeat that figure: 11%. only 11% of the tunisian population went to vote. what does this figure indicate? first, weariness in the face of an electoral law that is so uninclusive of women, youth and the diversity of society. the failure of kaïs saïed's hyper-presidential policy: 89% of the population therefore remained silent. and yet, it is not enough. sayed continues to create a vacuum to rule alone: constitutional revision, full powers, puppet parliament. the wave of arrests today was all that was needed to turn an authoritarian regime into a repressive one. how long will the european union continue to turn a blind eye to the state of democracy in tunisia? what are we waiting for to wake up, we who place so much hope in tunisian democracy, the tunisian exception in the heart of a disappointing arab spring? hope gives way to disillusionment and calls for action. it has been a year since tunisia has been sinking, democratically, politically, economically and socially. a year that we repeat, from meeting to meeting, that the situation is worrying, but that we do not move. we're displaying dismayful mines, but no political strategy. let us publicly condemn the regime of sayed, and support the national dialogue proposed by the civil society quartet. tunisians are demanding political stability to get their country's economy back on track. let us not abandon them, but let us give them our full support.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, the parties linked to the muslim brotherhood and which have participated in the institutional and economic sacking of their nation have for years been favoured by our institution. here it was believed that the arab spring would bring peace and prosperity - in short, new democracies to the west. what were the results of this policy? in egypt, we supported islamism, with mohamed morsi. in libya, we supported islamist-linked militias and threw all of west africa into chaos for a decade. in syria, our illusions and our fantasies turned 12 years of civil war into a springboard for a rebellion that soon became the banner of islamists. none of the countries where the european union and the us democrats have supported the muslim brotherhood lieutenants have been spared from chaos. our foreign policy and human rights resolutions had a compass: the interests of qatar. while our parliament still refuses to have an immediate committee of inquiry into its alignment with doha, we have therefore decided to return to the subject of tunisia. the efforts of president kaïs saïed to restore the authority of the state and to combat islamist deviations in part of the tunisian political field are to be welcomed. however, it is clear that it is facing a complex economic and political situation, which no one knows if it will be able to resolve, and which the tunisian people are now paying the price for. we are hearing the worst accusations against president saïd, as if it were the european parliament's job to appoint and remove the leaders of the mashreq countries. but it is up to the tunisian people to decide their future, without suffering from the interference and the european institutions. of course, no one can rejoice at the extremely low turnout in the last parliamentary elections in tunisia. it is, in my view, more a sign of despair than of disapproval, and it calls for solutions rather than condemnation.
mr president, tunisia is not a stranger to us: it is so closely linked to the history of france, italy and the whole of europe that we have the same duties towards it as towards a sister or brother. before it opened the way to the arab spring of 2011, tunisia had negotiated its independence without resentment or violence. habib bourguiba, its liberator, then obliged himself to give tunisian women the most liberal status in the arab world and to allow the establishment of a powerful trade union centre, which was always a factor of social and political balance. so close to our shores, so close to our hearts, tunisia could be one of ours, and that's why we need to speak loudly and truly to the man who made it so fast backwards. we must tell mr saïed that our assistance budget is not designed to break the independence of the judiciary, but, on the contrary, to strengthen it. we must tell him that there are too many dictatorships on earth for him to create a new one and that we love tunisia too much to resign ourselves to it. madam commissioner, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have to call a cat a cat, and mr saïd a man with whom we will not deal, because he is leading his people to misery and further destabilising both sides of the mare nostrum.
mr president, france and the european union have repeatedly given in to paul kagame's propaganda. it is no wonder that the latter now feel that everything is permissible. he has proved this by continuing to arm a militia that terrorises the kivu region: m23. everyone is now convinced of rwanda's military interference in the affairs of the democratic republic of congo. the european union, france and other powers have demanded that mr kagamé finally end his hostile policy. the terror of the m23 group is causing massive population displacement: 5 million congolese have already left the area in the last ten years. the m23 is thus involved in a new destabilization in the democratic republic of congo, a country that does not need any further difficulties. the united nations has been present in the country for decades; the war in the eastern democratic republic of congo never stopped. the words of pope francis, who visited the country a few days ago, have a special resonance. he said: "take your hands off the democratic republic of congo, take your hands off africa, stop suffocating africa, it is not a mine to be exploited nor a land to be plundered!" it is well known that rwanda is enriching itself, in particular, through the illegal trade in resources illegally exploited in the democratic republic of congo, and particularly in the kivu region. we can see that without strong international pressure on rwanda, it will certainly not stop participating in the destabilization of the west of the democratic republic of congo. as we rage, session after session, at foreign interference in africa, it is time to ask ourselves about our mistakes, which are hurling african states into the arms of other powers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, paris is banning diesel next year. rouen, lyon and strasbourg will follow. the purchase price of cars is exploding, but mr macron's allies also want to exclude the french who drive in gasoline cars. why this relentlessness when these same people are flying to bali for yoga or getting their asses kicked in davos on private jets? you want to punish a whole generation of drivers with false arguments and with a beating: radars every 20 meters, technical checks every two days, exclusion vignettes, a litre of gasoline at 3 euros. the french who get up early need their car to go to work, to pick up their children, to go shopping, to avoid unsafe and crowded public transport. this society of surveillance and obedience is not the europe i like. we must stop with the politics of fear, guilt and punishment imposed by your 2030 agenda. we don't want the whole thing to be electric. it's an excuse for colonial fools, because the electric car does not pollute here, but in africa, in the cobalt mines, far from your lofts and second homes. with you, for a section of the population, it's cold showers and candlelight eating pizza with domestic crickets.
mr president, madam president, mr high representative, a week ago president zelensky came to us asking for help. one year after the start of the russian aggression, europe must face the obvious: we have an interest in a victory for ukraine and we must do everything in our power to ensure that it wins. doing all we can means doing more and faster: more deliveries of arms and ammunition, the kind that will give ukraine a decisive advantage. no more procrastinating, delaying, hesitating when human lives are at stake. moreover, it means more sanctions against russia and a more determined fight against their circumvention. those in europe who violate sanctions must be prosecuted. those outside europe who help russia to circumvent them must fear secondary sanctions. some, even in this house - we have heard them - are calling for immediate negotiations, but the failure of the minsk agreements should have vaccinated us against the ill-advised odds and the temptation of frozen conflicts. those who preach appeasement towards russia should remember churchill's words: "he who practices the policy of appeasement feeds a crocodile in the hope of being eaten last".
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the risk of a sudden drop in our competitiveness is growing. we are acting with urgency at the moment and everyone welcomes the initial decisions of the council. but there is a real difference between the american ira law and our response, between chinese policy and ours: we are too scattered, we grope, where competitors are determined to organize and think five, ten or twenty years. our european economy needs clear direction and a clear response. our common market requires a common response. our economy really needs more europe. more europe in state aid means setting up joint projects, financed jointly by a sovereign fund. more europe in competition policy means the emergence of european champions, which is what the chinese and the americans are doing. more europe in public procurement means no more naivety: any competitor must respect our common environmental and social standards. more europe in international trade means a new trade policy geared towards democracy and the export of our values. our environmental and social standards must be the basis of our future trade agreements. more europe in our industrial strategy means voting quickly on the text on net-zero emission industry, but above all working on the reform of the energy market and i call on the groups to commit quickly to examining this text. our economy cannot wait, given the inflation rates and the problems of purchasing power in europe today. more europe means more cohesion and efficiency in our common market, and carbon neutrality. we have a temptation, between the groups, to unravel the green pact - we have seen it. i think that's absurd. the united states has now converted to our vision of the energy transition, and we must put all the means at our disposal. i understand that the epp group will not vote for this resolution of the european parliament, perhaps because of internal political calculations, perhaps to put the commission president in difficulty over deadlines which are internal to the epp, perhaps out of cynicism. but i want to believe that within the epp delegations there is some responsibility: responsibility for our industries, responsibility for our energy transition, responsibility for our jobs of tomorrow. and i hope, dear colleagues of the epp, that there will be responsible delegations. in any case, my group will call for a vote on the european parliament's resolution for a new model, for emergency measures. we can do so much more and so much better!
madam president, in the face of president biden's massive support for american business as well as china, you have finally decided to act. the introduction of a support plan, the european green industrial pact, is a matter of awareness: a lip-service to the protection of our economy, which we have so often defended, over time, in front of the singers of the global village. unfortunately, three major oversights weaken your ambitions, three major oversights that could doom you to impotence. the first is the absence of any plan to massively support nuclear power, which we know is one of the most effective ways of achieving energy independence and decarbonising our economy. the second is the reform of the european electricity market: the explosion in gas prices has major repercussions for our companies. if this price-setting mechanism is not seriously challenged, they will close down or move to the united states or china, where energy prices are cheap. finally, you are not proposing any measures to protect our public procurement and to give any advantage to european production. you continue to want to be the best students of free trade at the expense of our peoples, our industries and our interests. the nuclear master plan, the reform of the european energy market, the buy european act: these are the three main lines of an ambitious economic policy to reconnect with power, prosperity and sovereignty. for our companies and for our states, the crisis of globalisation, the rise of geopolitical dangers and economic rivalries make it necessary for europe to have strategic autonomy, which can no longer be a market open to all winds, to unfair international competition and to foreign predation.
the issues raised in these points of order are indeed serious. the president is aware of this episode, and she asked me to inform you that she is looking into it and she will take action.
we will now move on to the votes. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
mr president, no, i have no recall to the rules of procedure, i have a mechanical problem with my card, which is not working.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments.)
we now resume our debate on the council and commission statements on ‘a green deal industrial plan for the net-zero age’ (2023/2559(rsp)). i would also like to inform you, dear colleagues, that we will finish the list of registered speakers and, due to the time constraints, we will not have a catch-the-eye on this debate.
mr president, madam commissioner, there is something missing from this debate, and yet it is obvious: it is the question of geographical preference in our public procurement. we are making a text to react, among other things, to the 'buy american act' and we are not talking about the 'buy european act'. we promise businesses and jobs on european soil, but we do not have the means to give priority to european businesses over our strategic sectors of digital technology, medicine, agriculture and, in particular, renewable energy. it is a question of sovereignty, it is a question of fair competition. i even hear people in the commission and in this house say to us: 'but we are going to get into a trade war!' but since when do we get into a trade war when we use a tool that everyone else uses? let everyone else use it! we therefore need - and i hope, ladies and gentlemen, because we have tabled - an amendment to include a work on the buy european act. we need it for the energy transition. we need to show european citizens that we want businesses and jobs in europe to make this big economic transformation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. for years the framework conditions for industry in this european union have been being degraded and deliberately made worse. this is why, of course, the competitiveness of industry on the international market is declining. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is only logical to copy the united states and say: we will strengthen our industry, open up new debt. there are enough pots where there are still about 200 billion euros in the corona pot supporting our industry. we're all for that. we are, however, against a new debt. we must preserve this. and it is becoming clear once again that this green deal is becoming more and more of a green disaster for industry in europe. we are in favour of supporting domestic companies, strong domestic companies that are proving themselves on the world market, including financial support. in my home country - austria, styria - there are major automobile suppliers who produce the most efficient diesel engines and they must be supported on the world market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for years we have let the whole world benefit from our subsidies in the name of fighting global warming. foreign companies have made their fortunes off our money. today, the united states supports its electric car industry, subsidizing exclusively american companies and thus excluding ours. it's an act of trade war. and you discover, with astonishing candor, that all the countries of the world are defending their interests first! china has been massively subsidizing its economy and cheating, by the way, for decades. the united states is protective, has no complexes, and - it must be said - they are absolutely right. so let's stop asking joe biden for a few more gestures. we must respond and finally stop being the best students of globalised free trade. facilitating state aid by subsidising our economy is a first step, but we obviously need to go much further: let us establish, wherever possible, a genuine local, national and european preference in public procurement. let's promote tax relief to improve our competitiveness. let us stop signing free trade agreements with the whole world. it killed our industry yesterday, it will kill our agriculture tomorrow. it is time for the european union to protect us instead of organizing our collective impotence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of this debate i have heard some of my colleagues from the greens and renew mocking our concern for the future of our companies, our industries and our farmers. well, ladies and gentlemen, we are concerned because many of the texts voted on here will weaken our economy without saving the climate in any way. the european union wants to reach zero emissions by 2050. there is a very simple way to achieve this: zero production, zero creation, zero energy, zero prosperity, zero work, zero food, zero sovereignty also, zero freedom, zero life. and this is the scenario that often prevails here: maximum standards and minimum strategy. will we have to import everything we need tomorrow? we will not have saved the planet, but we will have offered our market to the production methods that are destroying it. there are as many planned coal plants in china as there are planned closures in the rest of the world. this is the model that those of us who voted yesterday to electrify, for example, all cars in europe, are addicted to. the same people who always vote against nuclear energy and make us buy gas by selling us wind turbines. it is time, ladies and gentlemen, to get rid of hypocrisy: less standards, more strategy. this is what is needed for the climate and for europe today.
so far i would like to thank colleagues for respecting the speaking time. this makes it very easy for me during my first chairing not to use the hammer. thank you very much, and i hope it will continue like this!
mr president, commissioner, finally, with our trading partners at our backs, we are mobilizing the necessary resources to strengthen the competitiveness of our industry! so first, let us respond urgently to the situation, with state aid, to facilitate investment and industrial projects for decarbonisation in europe. secondly, let us give ourselves sustainable means to invest, sustainably and together, in strategic priorities for europe. today, the urgent need is for a green transition, but digital, defence, health, agri-food are all challenges that await us. so let's use and simplify all the tools we have to make our businesses and our homes stronger and safer, especially. let us activate our new tool against foreign subsidies to end unfair competition in our domestic market. let us rethink public procurement to ensure our european sovereignty, and - as a matter of urgency - let us ensure a capital market to encourage savers, our savers, to invest in the real economy and in our european industries, which create the jobs of today and tomorrow.
madam president, i am from latvia, our president, when addressing this chamber yesterday, said that our values, our legal system, make the european way of life attractive for us and for others. today’s debate shows that these words are very far from reality, not only in greece, spain and poland but in my country, latvia, as well. life in latvian prison, where student tatiana andriets was thrown some days ago just for her beliefs, is it an attractive way of life, mr levits? we know that the parliamentary inquiry committee for pegasus has prepared a very good report and, well, thank you for this and we will vote, i am sure. but what about what about another permanent mechanism which is already in force? i am speaking about just the rule of law mechanism and country reports produced by the commission. madam mcguinness, i do not agree with you that these five recommendations given to greece you have cited will bring something fruitful. they are too general. in fact, these words are empty, for example, i repeat, ‘take into account european standards of judicial appointments’ or ‘improve the physical safety and working environment of journalists’, these recommendations too general to react.
madam president, this is not the first time we are having this debate and, to be quite frank, i was not convinced about its added value. unfortunately, so far nothing i’ve seen has changed my mind. this parliament has a dedicated committee with a specific assignment to look into the abuse of spyware in the whole of the european union, because this is not an issue of one individual member state, but it is a european issue, and the bigger committee is doing its job. we already spoke to almost 200 people, including a lot about greece, and we should also let it get on with its job. and as much as i understand the political appeal of bringing specific countries to this podium, especially with elections approaching, i really think the focus should be on our common work in the committee. now, we travelled to greece and we had many fruitful exchanges with government representatives, journalists, civil societies. we received a lot of useful information. what we did not find was evidence of corruption or the kind of authoritarian practices we witnessed in poland. but, of course, more can and should always be done to ensure transparency, and any allegations of abuse, of surveillance, have to be thoroughly investigated and necessary safeguards must be in place. i would like to point out, though, that unlike some other countries, the greek government actually makes an effort to actively cooperate with our committee. they received us. they share their proposals for reforms to improve transparency and judicial oversight. and i look forward to seeing the results of those reforms in practice. we need to investigate before we draw conclusions. there is plenty of work still to do, and we must continue that work in a thorough but also an objective manner.
madam president, the moment i criticized mitsotakis, i was banished from greek state television. when i objected to the restriction of media freedom i was expelled from the governing party. my phones have been wiretapped for 18 months by the national intelligence agency, after being designated a threat to national security. the president of the independent authority, which safeguards the privacy of telecommunications, documented the wiretapping of my phones and was criticised by the government and the chief public prosecutor for overstepping his authority. mitsotakis changed the law in order to take personal control over the national intelligence agency, developed a massive wiretapping system, along with his trusted nephew, mr dimitriadis. he also changed the law so that the victims of wiretapping, like myself and colleague androulakis, lost the right to know why we have been wiretapped and the actual result of their wiretappings for at least three years. i am saddened by the epp’s absence in the effort to defend the european rule of law. i was wiretapped by mitsotakis even during the period when i was an epp mep. this is not a personal issue. we have to defend european values and the rule of law before it is too late. otherwise, goodnight europe and good luck.
madam president, greece, state of play, 2023. eleni touloupaki, former head of the corruption prosecutor's office, has been attacked by her own government after an investigation about the scandal involving the novartis pharma company. and now she suspects that she was spied on as many others were in the greek political context. meanwhile, the wiretapping scandal, we know, is ongoing. giorgos karaivaz, a long-time crime reporter was assassinated in april 2021, and since then there's been no real follow-up to find out who killed him and what the motivation was. journalists are terrified, activists too. ngos working on migration issues are harassed. and even in this parliament, it took us months to have this small debate on the agenda, not one on the wiretapping, but one on the systemic degradation of the rule of law, corruption, democracy, judiciary, media pluralism. and it doesn't seem that the commission is sufficiently also challenging this. so i'm really wondering, have we not learned any lesson? will greece be the next sick man after hungary of this europe? and will we act once again when it's too late?
madam president, the special european council on migration has set out to protect our people by calling for the reinforcement of the union's external borders. the commission is prepared to finance infrastructure for this purpose; we take note of this and will ensure that these announcements are effective. it is certainly wrong to be right too soon, but it is quite extraordinary to see today the beginning of the implementation of what we have been calling for for years. nevertheless, much remains to be done. why does the commission always refuse requests from several states to participate in the financing of walls and fences? there are already thousands of kilometres of them in several states bordering the european union, some of which are governed by socialists. so why do the socialists here refuse what the socialists there are asking for? it is high time that you threw off your ideological blinders and responded to the legitimate aspirations of the peoples for protection. it is regrettable to build walls in a europe that wanted to be generous and open to the world, but all this is the result of your policy. moreover, if certain protective measures are announced, you are also rushing to negotiate the new pact on migration and asylum, which favours mass immigration, not to mention the future law of chancellor scholz. so much remains to be done to ensure that the european union puts europeans first. this will continue to be our priority.
madam president, madam commissioner, madam president of the ecb, i would like to join the thanks of my colleague sven simon and all my colleagues in saying that we are very grateful that you have stayed up so late - despite the difficulties of the day in the european parliament - for this important discussion. you quoted thomas jefferson, who said that "the price of freedom is eternal vigilance". vigilance must be maintained against the dangers which have not yet passed, but which are ahead of us. and one of them - i believe - is the one to which we are exposed by the long-term consequences of the carelessness of many member states of the european union, which have lived for a long time in an almost fictitious world. whatever it takes, whatever it takes. these well-known words of one of your predecessors represented a kind of authorisation to face all crises with the same maxim: "whatever it takes". yesterday it was covid-19, today it is the rise in energy prices that has caused public debts to continue to rise in many of our countries. as we can see, the inflation you mentioned is very heavy and is affecting many european households, forcing the european central bank to raise interest rates. for a country like mine, france - a country like ours, even, madam president - each point of increase in interest rates represents, in the medium term, additional expenditure of 20 billion over five years and 40 billion over ten years. every point of increase! and you said, unfortunately, that might not be enough to bring down inflation. we risk finding ourselves in a terrible situation: our states would no longer have the means to intervene on the social level, faced with the asphyxiation that a new debt crisis would create. so, madam president, i have only one question to ask you: are you also afraid of a new debt crisis? and don't you think it's time to go back to that other well-known maxim of thomas jefferson: "don't spend your money until you've earned it"?
madam president, commissioner, madam president lagarde, dear rapporteur, congratulations on the work you have done! ms schnabel, of the ecb's executive board, said in january 2023: 'we need a better understanding of how climate change will affect the financial sector, and vice versa; for this, the development of high-quality data will be key.' my question is simple: really? do we have time to wait? will we be able to have good quality data on events that we are not able to imagine today? and do we have to wait to act? as keynes said, "in the long run, we're all dead". aren't we all going to be dead by the time we get the right data to act on? why not act now, especially on the safe side? it is known that some banks are extremely exposed to fossil risk, fossil risk which can generate systemic risk, systemic risk which can be avoided by increasing capital requirements. so that is my question, madam president lagarde. that said, i think we can still be proud in europe of having a central bank, the central bank that is moving the fastest in the environmental field. some countries, notably the united states, do not have this opportunity.
madam president, madam commissioner, madam president of the ecb, your courtesy is commendable. we are very grateful that you have the patience to stay with us tonight, and i believe that all my colleagues join me in greeting you. the major political decision you have taken with the greening of the ecb's monetary policy raises two questions for me, particularly at a time of great concern about the maintenance of purchasing power. the first question concerns its legitimacy: should we not consider renegotiating and extending your mandate to legitimize this greening of monetary policy, with its consequences? because my second question relates to the concern of many economists, who believe that the irrational and exorbitant preference for renewable energy will have marked inflationary effects. is this the reason why there is more and more talk of an inflation target of 2 to 4 or 5 per cent? are you not afraid of the inflationary effects of your forced greening of monetary policy?
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the tensions with china have caused fear, and the russian aggression in ukraine has shown us that europe's enemies have control of access to the strategic raw materials we need. to deal with our addictions, you propose a plan: european extraction, european processing, and recovery. efforts that must be sustainable and in line with the green deal. it is necessary to help european industries to emerge, to structure themselves and to develop in the face of unfair competition from companies supported by often authoritarian states. commissioner, these are the points you have raised, and we know that we will also have to deal with the societal challenges of extracting raw materials in europe. we must ensure that the implementation of this strategy takes account of territorial realities and environmental requirements. global demand for strategic raw materials will increase fivefold by 2050. we know that european resources will not be enough - you said so - and the commission intends to increase the number of agreements. agreements which are also becoming more and more difficult because they sometimes put our companies, which respect our principles and our laws, in competition with states with opposite views. but because all these questions are important, we must continue to move forward with effective work, negotiation work which must involve all the parties concerned, and more transparent consultation work. with this debate, madam commissioner, we must protect much more than our economy: we must affirm and give substance to our autonomy.
madam president, madam commissioner, dear friends, many of us are concerned about our dependence on critical raw materials. to address these concerns, we must reject the myth that we can maintain our current consumption pattern by simply replacing our dependence on fossil fuels with a new dependence on critical raw materials. such a scenario is not desirable from an economic, geopolitical or ecological point of view. to respond to this threat, we must build a strategy that is based on our real needs, not on a growthist and expansionist trajectory. low-tech industry, eco-design, repairability, reuse and full recycling of critical raw materials must be our roadmap to a competitive and innovative european economy, i.e. commensurate with the resources we have. our investment power, research capacity, industry and internal market rules must be firmly focused on the cleanliness and eco-design of equipment and infrastructure on the one hand and on the recycling and reuse of materials on the other.
author. madam president, in all latitudes, all criminal codes say: it is a crime, mr putin, to detain an innocent person behind four walls, an innocent person, moreover, who was tried in vain to poison. yes, your crime is established, but now you perpetrate an even greater one. by means of isolation, harassment and denial of medical care you are slowly murdering alexei navalny. this fearless opponent, this warrior who challenges you, you want him dead, you want his head, because you fear him. so know, mr. putin, that just as the world will not forgive you for the martyrdom of ukraine, we could not forgive you for the murder of the freedom fighter who is your opponent. we couldn't because we'd be admiring him. we couldn't because he's admirable. we could not because, the day when history turns its dark page, russia will need alexei navalny and all those who resist you today. without them, russia would have no standards behind which to rally, to stand and to refuse this new time of trouble that your war threatens. russia needs a navalny, and if you deprive it of one, it is russia you will destroy.
mr president, commissioner, there is no doubt that european farmers are facing a critical situation. the prices of synthetic fertilisers are soaring and there is a possibility of a shortage. this is the result of years of misguided agricultural policies. how could we have let our food rely on fossil resources and the production capabilities of a handful of multinational corporations? this dependence is costing farmers more and more money, as they spend more and more on synthetic fertilisers, with less and less economic benefit. it also has a terrible cost to society: fertilisers affect our health, natural resources, air, water, climate, biodiversity and the inherent fertility of soils. on this issue, with this resolution, we are once again witnessing the 'instrumentalisation' of the war in ukraine to reinstate an agricultural model that must be discarded and to renounce the objectives and ambitions, albeit salutary, of the 'farm to table' strategy. opening the floodgates of public money at every crisis will never solve the structural problems. it is all the more exasperating that we have effective alternatives, which do away with fertilisers and no longer feed the superprofits of fertiliser companies: this is agronomy, agroecology, which, beyond their virtues on food sovereignty, are also the basis of hope for the future and hope for peace.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the text which has been put before us is a good text. i will approve it later, when the votes are taken. we know the painful circumstances in which it will be adopted for our farmers. the price of fertilisers, and more generally of agricultural inputs, has exploded in the last two years, sometimes four or five times higher. if prices have been falling in recent months, it is because demand is falling, which is logical. farmers can't keep up, cash is running out, margins are so low that many are working at a loss. without fertilizer, there is no modern agriculture. in the french overseas departments, most farms are family-run, small-scale, and barely mechanized. the situation is made more dramatic by the fact that products must be imported, often from very far away, for the benefit of a necessarily small number of farmers. as a result, prices are even higher than on the mainland, while agriculture is structurally more fragile. this creates a real risk to food security in these territories, which justifies the special attention the commission will have to pay to our outermost regions. the price of fertilizer had started to explode long before the war in ukraine. this is not a short-term problem - i say this - which will be solved if the guns fall silent. it is a structural problem, that of europe's too weak production capacity, which makes us dependent on third countries, sometimes hostile. the only solution is to create new productive capacity, and that is the challenge for the next few years. mr commissioner, mr president, the commission's communication is a first step. we must now take strong action, otherwise the present situation will no longer be a temporary anomaly, but the (president:
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, fertilisers are the achilles' heel of european agriculture. their shortage can lead to the collapse of the entire food chain, as they are involved in the production of 50% of our food. european farmers cannot afford price increases that have reached 150% of the pre-war level in ukraine. we need short, medium and longterm measures. in the very short term, european farmers must have solutions for spring planting, and we cannot rely on the agricultural crisis reserve, which is not the right size to cover their needs. increasing state aid is also not the answer if we want to avoid distortions of competition within the single market. additional european funds are needed until the budget for the common agricultural policy is increased. in the medium and long term, we should encourage manufacturers to develop sustainable production based on the ecological transition. research and innovation need a boost to wean the union off its dependence on fossil fertilisers.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the renew europe group, in accordance with rule 158 of the rules of procedure, i propose that the following debate be added to the agenda of our sitting: statement by the council and the commission on 'strengthening the defence of the european union in the context of the war in ukraine: accelerating the production and delivery of arms and ammunition to ukraine' for wednesday afternoon, as the second item. at the european council on 9 and 10 february, ukrainian president volodymyr zelensky stressed the urgent need for additional military support from us. in order to respond as quickly as possible to this demand, the defence ministers of the european union welcomed in stockholm on wednesday proposals to transfer ammunition to ukraine immediately, to pool orders with the european defence industry to replenish our stocks and to take urgent measures to strengthen european industrial capacity. we must act urgently to be able to continue our support for ukraine, but also to ensure the security of our union. parliament called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament's views were heard before the council took its decisions. i hope you can support this request.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, since december, hardly a week has passed without a new case of corruption within the european institutions themselves. this time we are told that the commission's director-general for transport has accepted no less than nine business class flights offered by qatar airways. a generous gift, while mr hololei was negotiating the free trade agreement between the european union and qatar. the conflict of interest is obvious, but for the commission everything is fine. yes, because mr hololei received the authorisation from the director of dg move, that is, himself. at this point, one may wonder whether the next step will be for monsanto to allow gmos on the european market... the european union has been leading the way in ethical monitoring in recent months. under our pressure, the european parliament has started a process of reform. we are here to look after the grain. now it is the european commission's turn to be held accountable. and that is why, on behalf of our left group in the european parliament, we are asking for this debate so that the european commission can start by washing the dishes outside its door.
madam president, just to say that we will of course be in favour of a debate on this. this case proves once again that we need an interinstitutional body, and that is what we have been advocating, including with my group renew. however, my group will be opposed to a resolution and i would like to see two separate votes on this question.
for the renew group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. buildings account for 40% of european energy consumption. energy-efficient buildings are therefore crucial to our ability to combat climate change. and after putin's heinous attacks on innocent people in ukraine, it is even more urgent to make europe free of putin's gas. when we vote tomorrow on something as technical as a building directive, we will not be voting for the green. we also vote against the dictator putin. experts say that we could save up to 47 billion cubic metres of russian gas a year in our buildings if we vote for the position we have adopted in the energy committee. that's 30% of the gas we imported from russia before the war. we have to reach our climate goals. we need to stop sponsoring putin's war by helping citizens renew their energy homes. the building directive is a test of how serious we are about european energy security, citizens' energy bills and, not least, climate change. i hope for a large majority tomorrow.
on behalf of the ecr club. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this could have been a great report and that's why i've spent six months of my time as a shadow rapporteur and over a hundred meetings on it. we needed to harness the motivation of citizens to build smarter solutions in this energy crisis that would reduce emissions and help them have a warm and comfortable home. this would also reduce energy consumption, increase energy security and reduce greenhouse gases. unfortunately, this is a missed opportunity. this is a very bad report. it does not see citizens and member states as partners, but as children to be forced into a dogmatic green approach. there is an obsession with the ultimate goal of zero greenhouse gas emissions, and it ignores the reality and a whole series of quality intermediate steps. they're pushing zero-emission buildings, a tried and failed model of renovation. there's more paperwork, more red tape, unnecessarily frequent energy certificates, global warming material certificates and so on. in short, instead of being an incentive for better energy efficiency, this report has become a slap in the face that pushes everything solely to reduce greenhouse gases.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the serious and dedicated work he has done so that tomorrow we have a proposal here which really wants to improve the lives of so many people. there are many families throughout europe who cannot heat their homes, either because of the rising price of energy or because of the poor quality of the buildings. this proposal to improve the energy performance of buildings is therefore a key piece for climate justice, for social justice. the adoption of this commitment is to ensure that a serious social problem is corrected, as vulnerable people living in buildings with poor performance, with no possibility of improving their situation, will have support. this proposal sets mandatory targets for improving the energy performance of existing and new buildings, sets a framework for financial support for this, includes new provisions for adapting buildings to new mobility models, sets certification procedures and declares national plans to ensure that the targets are met. tomorrow, this house will decide whether it truly wants to make a difference in the lives of millions of people or continue to put the real estate business ahead of so many lives. but let me say even more, madam president. it is with great surprise that i see in this house members of the id and ecr who voted against this compromise in the commission and in this house coming to criticise and say things like those we heard earlier when, in fact, tomorrow they are going to table amendments in plenary corresponding to the text which has already been adopted, exactly in those terms, in the committee responsible. so it's incomprehensible that there's so much propaganda, so much populism, without really wanting to change people's lives.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. of course, the building sector has to contribute to our climate goals. the commission estimates that the building sector accounts for 40% of all co2 emissions. so the question is not whether we decarbonize the building stock, but the question is how we do it. and so, ladies and gentlemen, i think that we are really going the wrong way with the energy efficiency directive for buildings, which we are going to vote on tomorrow. forced renovations, bans, that is the proposal the commission has put on the table, and what has been decided in parliament, including in the committee on industry, goes even further. i believe that we must not make climate protection against the interests of citizens, but we must take people with us. we cannot use coercion and prohibition to try to persuade society to fight climate change, but i think we need smarter solutions. and if you look at what's being pushed in the united states right now with the inflation reduction act, i think that's a much better way to convince people, people, citizens, citizens to invest in energy efficiency here than the way we're doing it. let me say one more thing: i often hear in the debate that if i do not vote for this directive, i am against climate protection. no, on the contrary. we have decided on emissions trading and we have foreseen that the building sector will be included in emissions trading, so that energy in the building sector will be priced. we already have an energy efficiency directive. and ladies and gentlemen, everyone knows how much energy prices have skyrocketed in recent months. i think that we really do not need to convince our citizens that it makes sense to invest in insulation here, in insulating their homes, their housing. it'll take care of itself. i don't think we should add pressure here with forced renovations. that is why i am very, very critical of this directive which we are voting on tomorrow.
madam president, commissioner, a very good proposal for a directive, which comes at the right time. we need a european plan to increase the energy efficiency of buildings, and we need a plan that is both achievable, that is also concrete, and that allows, on the one hand, a signal that people are waiting for, they are tired of big bills and they want to have smaller bills. how can we do this? on the one hand, the measures we will introduce in the new electricity market model and on the other hand, obviously, increasing energy efficiency means lower bills. but we must be sure, commissioner, that all member states are implementing this directive, in its letter and spirit, and the spirit is this: that no person, no family, whether young families, whether large families, whether pensioners, will be obliged to pay this energy efficiency bill, which can easily exceed eur 10 000 to eur 15 000, and that there will be these measures to create national funds in the member states, european funds that must be allocated so that these families are not made to pay for something they could not afford anyway and that we ensure instead that those who pay can be part of this process of increasing energy efficiency. the success of this program depends on how we all do these things. you, like the commission, ensure that each member state implements these instruments and that our messages are clear: no one will pay more than they have to, and all those who need support will receive european and national support, grants and co-financing.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let us talk about numbers. through its climate law, europe has set itself a target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030. in 2020, europe has already succeeded in reducing its emissions by 31% compared to 1990. now we need another 24 percent in less than seven years. the current building stock of the european union accounts for 36% of greenhouse gas emissions: more than a third. with these figures, ladies and gentlemen, do we really have a choice? obviously not. we urgently need to reduce the co2 emissions from our buildings - obviously, taking into account the reality of each country. and that is what this text proposes. so it is time to get serious about this energy-efficient renovation of buildings. i call on you to give your very broad support to this text which is essential to reduce our co2 emissions.
madam president, there are two forms of ecology: one wants to preserve the planet in order to serve mankind, the other wants to put green ideology before human lives. in the european parliament, since the green pact, we have been accumulating texts which are totally unaware of their impact on our societies. of course, no one is against thermal renovation of buildings, whether private or public. but the text proposes unequal indicators between states to justify building classes. worse, this bill will impose on property owners unenforceable deadlines to bring their properties into compliance. there is a real crisis in the french property market. a crisis that will endanger many households whose loans will not be enough to meet the requirements of brussels. what is the point of imposing these demands by force, without taking account of the reality of our economic and craft landscape to actually put them into place? does the resolution take into account the difficulties of our craftsmen in recruiting? no, i'm not going. does the resolution take into account sufficient time for the owners to have their work done? no, i'm not going. to avoid a real estate crisis in france, we will vote against this resolution.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we are going to vote on a directive on the energy efficiency of buildings. it's very simple to vote, but what matters is to think about the consequences. the text requires major thermal renovation work to be carried out on 40 million buildings in europe by 2033 - 40% of the total building stock in europe in less than ten years. the commission is pledging 150 billion in the european budget for this purpose. but according to his own calculations, the cost will be 275 billion a year. every year, my colleagues. and that cost, whether it's public or private money, in the end, we know who's going to pay for it. the ordinary people, the people who work, who contribute, who save their whole lives to buy the place where they live and who are going to be forced to work at prices that will explode because of the sudden demand that these new standards will cause. and why all this? why would you do that? yes, colleagues, we all want to reduce carbon emissions. but all the available data show the aberration of a policy of undifferentiated renovation of buildings. in the united states, the experience of large-scale campaigns shows that energy savings are three times less than expected for costs twice as high as expected. the university of cambridge showed a few weeks ago that, five years after the work, energy consumption had not even decreased. in germany, after €340 billion of investment in thermal renewal, a study shows that the impact is not even measurable. the only undeniable consequence for the environment, ladies and gentlemen, is the explosion in the use of the necessary materials. it is a complete paradox that politicians who claim to be environmentally conscious want to see half of all european buildings built within ten years. behind that, there is the persistence of an obsession with the past: to change everything, to remake everything, to discredit the old, the heritage, the legacy, to make everything new again. it is this logic that has created the ecological crisis and we understand why, unfortunately, large industrial interests are supporting this project, of course. but behind this situation there is in fact a major crisis, a social and political crisis too, which this text could bring about. the only real solution to decarbonize is to switch from the fuel, the gas that heats our homes, to electricity and use all decarbonized sources to produce much more. but as it happens, those who want to regulate the lives of europeans even in their private space are also generally those who fight, for example, nuclear energy. we have tabled an amendment to ensure that a zero-emission building is also a building that benefits from this energy source among others. tomorrow, colleagues, as we vote, let us consider the consequences.
i'm the reporter. madam president, i would like to start by expressing my sincere thanks to you, ms o'reilly, and to your office for all the work you have done in 2021. the european union can be proud of having an institution that is constantly working to strike a balance between the right of the union's institutions to work and the public interest in having a transparent and accountable administration. in the peti committee, we have the privilege of working hand in hand with the ombudsman's office. our indispensable cooperation has a twofold objective: to increase the responsibility of the union's institutions and to bring the voice of citizens directly to parliament. your efforts are of paramount importance to us as direct representatives of the citizens, because they strengthen both representative and participatory democracy, and increase the legitimacy of the union's decision-making process. the right to refer cases to the european ombudsman, enshrined in the treaties and the charter, is a cornerstone of the union's primary law. symbol of transparency, impartiality, accountability and guarantee of the fundamental rights of every citizen. and it is precisely in response to citizens' requests for help that in 2021 you opened 338 investigations, including 332 based on complaints and six own-initiative investigations and closed 305 investigations. transparency, accountability, a culture of service, and the proper exercise of discretionary powers. these are the main themes addressed in the surveys completed in 2021. other topics covered include respect for fundamental rights, recruitment, fairness, sound financial management, citizen participation in the eu decision-making process and ethical issues. in line with the 2024 strategy, your office's work has increased in 2021 with the opening of more investigations and initiatives on a wide range of issues. and for these reasons, we agreed that it is essential to allocate an adequate budget to the ombudsman in order to have the resources necessary to manage the overall workload. i congratulate you on your repeated commitment to the fight against shoe-shopping. in particular, your office has launched a wide-ranging strategic inquiry into the way in which the commission has handled this fraud. you have been careful to ensure that access to documents of interest to the general public is granted, particularly with the revision of the accelerated procedure. in this connection, i have made sure to emphasise two key elements in the text: that transparency and public access to documents of the union institutions must be ensured, and that the revision of the transparency act is a priority in order to put the union at the forefront of progress in this area. and it was through your investigation that we learned of the existence of the text messages exchanged between ursula von der leyen and the president of pfizer. all the political groups have worked to highlight the attention your office pays to ethical issues as well as issues relating to transparency and decision-making. throughout 2021, you have done such a remarkable job of investigating the respect and protection of fundamental rights, the core values of the union. two own-initiative inquiries are essential here. one is on how frontex is complying with its obligations, the other on how the commission is ensuring that eu funds are used to promote the right of people with disabilities and older people to live independently. i mention this in my libe report towards equal rights for people with disabilities and i would like to reiterate here that your commitment as a member of the european union framework to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is essential in order to protect, promote and monitor its proper implementation by the union institutions. my dear colleagues, when the unknown and the shadow sow doubt, it is the light and the light that reassure us. it's about transparency, about trust. so tomorrow let us live up to the trust of those who have entrusted us with the keys to european democracy. let us show our citizens that parliament can speak with one voice.
european ombudsman. – madam president, vice president šefčovič, good evening, everybody. let me begin by thanking rapporteur pelletier, the shadow rapporteurs and the entire petitions committee for their strong endorsement of our work in 2021. the covid crisis continued to dominate much of our lives that year, but since then the multiple crises provoked by russia’s invasion of ukraine have done so. the loss of life has been immense, as has the devastation of families forced to flee their homes to the safety of the eu and elsewhere. the telling of the ukrainian story includes passionate appeals for the protection of democratic values and for the safeguarding of democratic institutions. it is those democratic institutions that are our first line of defence against the weakening of the rule of law and against corruption. late last year, the qatargate scandal emerged with allegations of the buying of european parliamentary influence by foreign governments. the power that this parliament exerts was demonstrated by the fact that this was, and is, a globally reported story. the european parliament has power that both good and bad actors wish to influence and exploit. it is also the body that citizens look to as the protector of their rights, so it is imperative for trust to be restored. i am therefore pleased that the process of internal reform of parliament’s rules on ethics has begun, and it is in everyone’s interests that it be as transparent as possible. transparency continues to be a key area of my work. it is the means by which eu citizens can exercise their treaty—based right to take part in the democratic life of the union. the year 2021 marked twenty years since the eu’s access to documents regulation 1049/2021 came into force. following a complaint, i opened an inquiry into how the commission handled an access to documents request for text messages between its president and the ceo of pfizer. i found maladministration, as the initial position of the commission was that such messages do not constitute potentially releasable documents under the access regulation. however, regulation 1049/2021 makes it perfectly clear that it is the content that matters, and not the medium. if text messages concern eu policies and decisions, they should be treated as eu documents. i asked eight eu institutions and agencies what measures they have in place for documenting work—related texts and instant messaging, and then published practical recommendations to help the eu administration. i was glad to note the commission’s positive engagement with those recommendations in subsequent meetings with other institutions on this matter. i looked at how the eu administration deals with moves by its staff to the private sector – so—called ‘revolving doors’. i found that the european defence agency should have forbidden its former chief executive from becoming a strategic adviser at aerospace firm airbus due to a conflict of interest risk. this case mirrors a 2020 case in which the head of the european banking authority had been permitted to take up a position with a major financial lobbying firm. both bodies agreed to implement my recommendations on the forbidding of problematic moves and on providing clear guidelines for staff. i also began a broad investigation into how the commission deals with ‘revolving doors’. an analysis of 100 files revealed a tendency to underestimate the potentially corrosive effects of the phenomenon, and a consequential reluctance to forbid jobs temporarily when they posed unacceptable risks. the commission has since agreed to strengthen its implementation of the rules. in 2021, i concluded an inquiry into how frontex deals with alleged human rights breaches through its complaints mechanism. i asked frontex to make clear to its officers that they should accept and transmit any complaints they receive, and that frontex information materials should also make clear that complainants would not be penalised for submitting a complaint. eu citizens also have a strong interest in knowing how eu policies and eu—funded projects affect the environment. in 2021, i therefore suggested that the european investment bank provide greater public information on the environmental implications of the projects it finances. i also opened an inquiry into how the commission will ensure transparency and accountability in the implementation of the eu’s eur 700 billion recovery and resilience facility, and i note the positive work of parliament on this matter. i would close by also noting our 2021 awards for good administration, through which my office acknowledges the great work done by eu public servants. the 2021 overall award winners, the european commission’s directorate—general for civil protection and humanitarian aid and the european external action service, helped to repatriate over half a million eu citizens stranded around the world due to covid. our next awards ceremony for 2023 will take place in june and will showcase some remarkable projects undertaken by the eu administration, including by this parliament. i look forward to sharing them with you and with the public. in the meantime, and with your support, i will continue to do my part in promoting accountability, transparency and trust in the eu’s bodies and institutions. the eu is not just an economic force in the world. it is also a moral force for good. as such, its administration needs to set and lead by example. i thank you again for your support and cooperation.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, dear madam o’reilly, it’s a pleasure to be here to discuss the european parliament’s report and resolution on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2021. first, i would like to say grand merci, notre rapporteur, madame pelletier, but also the coordinators of the peti committee and its members for their work in undertaking this annual exercise, providing the views of the european parliament on the issues that it considers noteworthy and important in the area of good administration for citizens, businesses and associations. as highlighted in the report and resolution, the work of the european ombudsman is important for finding a balance between the eu institutions’ output and the public interest in an eu administration that delivers the highest standards of integrity and accountability. given the role of the european commission in the institutional framework, it is normal that it is the institution most frequently concerned by the ombudsman inquiries and initiatives. indeed, in 2021, 208 out of 338 inquiries were addressed to the commission, representing some 61.5%. the european commission makes constant efforts to provide citizens, businesses and associations with the best possible administration and with the most appropriate solutions and responses to the european ombudsman requests. as in previous years, the relations between the european commission and the european ombudsman have been positive, constructive and fruitful. the european ombudsman continues to fulfil its duty as a mediator, facilitator and intermediary between the complainants and the european institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. numerous contacts and exchanges and meetings contribute to a better understanding of the issues at stake and the best possible outcomes. solution proposals, suggestions for improvement and recommendations are taken into account and implemented whenever feasible. together with a real dialogue and mutual understanding between our respective services, that is precisely why it is very rare for an inquiry to end up with the final closing decision of maladministration. the report and resolution refers to issues such as transparency and accountability of the overall eu administration in the context of the covid-19 crisis, the need to pursue legislative work in partnership with the eu co-legislators, access to documents or the commission’s role in handling revolving doors situations. also in 2021, the new statute of the european ombudsman entered into force, granting additional rights and emphasising the importance of good administration in sensitive fields like harassment, whistle-blowing and conflicts of interests. recently, new implementing provisions of the statute were submitted for consultation to the parliament and the council and the commission, and we have since delivered a positive opinion. these new provisions will serve to complement the european ombudsman work. finally, as usual, the commission will duly examine the parliament’s resolution in the coming weeks and will reply in detail to the issues raised therein. i will stop here, madam president, because i am looking forward to hear the views of the members and i would like to thank you all for the attention.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i would like to thank mrs o'reilly and mr šefčovič for their work. i wrote down four notes. firstly, the ombudsman is not a member of the european commission, nor is the ombudsman a member of the european parliament. she's not a member of the council either. the ombudsman is there for the citizens. and frankly, mrs. o'reilly, you did your multifaceted work well. if i were not a german, i would even say that you did your job very well. i am pleased that the role of the ombudsman in europe is being increasingly recognised by our citizens. it is also evident from the fact that in 2021, over 20 000 citizens turned to the ombudsman's services for help. 338 investigations were initiated, 332 based on complaints and six on own initiative. this brings me to my second point: i think our ombudsman has made a good use of the delicate political instrument of own-initiative inquiries. that's a compliment too. and thirdly, the tiresome subject of transparency. i am glad that we have found a formulation in the report which does justice to the problem. it's the same fight every year. i 'll be honest with you . in my opinion - and perhaps also in the german language - you don't usually need a descriptive word to define the word transparency, because transparent is transparent. it's all we can do. but we have found a way of putting this in a proper way and i am glad that we were able to adopt the report - this is my fourth comment - with a great deal of consensus between the groups. i am always of the opinion that the ombudsman's report should not be turned into a political battleground. and i would also like to thank our rapporteur, mrs pelletier, who has also made it possible for us to reach agreement and to be able to vote in favour with a large majority tomorrow. i would like to see this agreement fixed by a joint committee vote in the shadow meeting next time. that would have been the whipped cream on the ice cream. but we have reserves for the next time, and i thank our ombudswoman again for her work.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, dear commission vice-president, dear ombudsman emily o’reilly, and dear colleagues, first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur, anne-sophie pelletier, for the excellent work she has done on this file and the shadow rapporteurs, the colleagues, i think we did a good work to make this report a success. since her first election, our ombudsman, emily o'reilly, has been working on increasing the standards of eu administration. this is not only making us happy here in the european parliament but this is very important for our citizens and they appreciate it very much, so thank you very much for that work. we, the s&d, welcome very much the hard work of the small office of the ombudsman that increased its efficiency and has proven to have an important role to bridge the gap between eu citizens and the eu institutions. the structural organisation and the efficiency of the ombudsman’s office, the need for full transparency, the management of the covid-19 crisis, the management of our agencies, the avoidance of the risk of conflict of interest for officials from eu institutions – all these are topics covered by the ombudsman and included also in our report and very important subjects. transparency is the basis for our citizens’ trust and we must make sure to honour it, especially when it comes to the use of public money. access to work-related documents is very important and has been discussed in your report, in our report, also including instant messages, the access to which must be included and guaranteed. indeed, in this particular period, it is important to demonstrate our capability to be close to our citizens. fundamental rights are the core values of the european union and they should apply to all of our policies also inside the institution when it comes to ensuring equal access to work and teleworking for all workers, especially persons with disability but also when it comes to the management of our agencies such as frontex. i am glad to see how the ombudsman’s recommendation can help to improve our internal functioning in terms of transparency, accountability, but also make our institutions and agencies a better place to work. i would like to apologise to the ombudsman and to the president that i will leave now because i’m going to the ep bureau where we discuss cooling-off period, which is also a subject which you are very interested in. so thank you very much and keep on your good work.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, madam ombudsman, ladies and gentlemen, 2021 will be a year marked by the continuation of the global covid pandemic, but also the year of emerging from this shock through vaccination. madam ombudsman, throughout this eventful year, you have continued, like the rapporteur and the fictitious rapporteurs, to emphasise a fundamental principle, that of transparency. the group purchase of vaccines has allowed us to protect europeans. the lack of transparency, which has been fuelled by some of the benches in this house, has, on the contrary, helped to fuel all the conspiracy theories, undermining our efforts and, more seriously, a way out of the crisis. this situation shows that we can only commit ourselves to exemplary transparency in order to strengthen, or even restore, the confidence of all our citizens, and this in all areas. your 2021 annual report also deals with the question of the commission's handling of trade policy. you say, and many of us say, that our trade agreements, beyond being instruments for protecting our ambitions, beyond being levers for defending our interests, must be the subject of genuine public debate. it's the most important thing. madam ombudsman, in the course of 2021, more than 20,000 citizens have turned to you, to your services, to whom you have provided guidance. you have helped to build the credibility of the european union. you have enabled it to move towards a more transparent, fairer and more citizen-friendly europe. and my group, like my colleagues, will continue to work in this direction.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, mrs o'reilly, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, madam ombudsman, first of all, thank you and congratulations for your work. since you have been in charge of this institution, you have fought for transparency and against instances of maladministration in brussels. you have dared to criticise the commission's purchase of 1.5 million defective masks and, above all, the sms marketing of pfizer-biontech vaccines. you also revealed that there is no control on slippers in the commission. in 2019, out of 1,000 requests for transfers from civil servants to the private sector, the european executive blocked only six. according to linkedin, more than 250 former commission staff are believed to work for amazon, google, microsoft, facebook or apple. how many former commissioners have become lobbyists? thank you for also raising the question of the opacity of tobacco lobbying. we need ethics, trust and honor. madam president, i also congratulate you on opening an inquiry last monday into the free flights allegedly granted by qatar airways to a commission director-general. i regret only one thing, that your recommendations are often ignored by the brussels commission.
madam president, madam ombudsman, you have just made a very fine statement. you said that the european union must also be a moral force. unfortunately, today it is only an economic, bureaucratic, technocratic, disciplinary normative force. the peoples are doubting and your role here is essential to make sure that the peoples no longer doubt. the question is, how effective are you? you have a certain efficiency, but the real efficiency, the one that will make you no longer don quixote, will be seen the day, finally, in hand, you have the text messages you request, broadcast between mrs. von der leyen and the ceo of pfizer. you had the courage to ask for them. let's fight for you to have them. this is the key to confidence in the european union.
i'm the reporter. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the work we have done together, since we had a common objective, namely to go and get mrs o'reilly's work and this request for transparency. i have heard all the groups in this house, all the groups, calling for transparency. commissioner, it is your duty today to remind mrs von der leyen of what you have heard this evening. it is not just a few groups that are asking you for transparency, but all the groups in the european parliament. and if this report was voted unanimously in the committee on petitions, it says something about this need for transparency. report all the things you have heard to mrs von der leyen and ask her for those famous texts, because we need them, as mrs o'reilly said, not only for the citizens, but also for you, the commission, to benefit from this transparency and to show that you have a good institution and a good functioning of your institution. because it is the mistrust, the loss of confidence of citizens, that is what is endangering our democracies. you see, commissioner, i had a whole text in writing, i listened to my colleagues and today i have no text. i left blind. but i really think that this demand of the european citizens is that our democracies are doing badly in the shadow of qatar, in the shadow of all the shenanigans that exist at the commission level. this can't go on. because if you do not do something and if we do not help the ombudsman to bring this to the fore then you will be responsible for the fall of european democracies.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if the european union is ambitious enough to lead us down the path of economic suicide, and to do so at a loss, then we do not have the same definition of the word, and that is fundamental. as much as you may see the eu's climate targets rising, our efforts will be swallowed up by the growth of the rest of the world. do you want to make the eu a totally carbon-free continent? you'll make it a continent totally unclassified. ambition must be to relocate our industries massively, promote the latest nuclear and renewable technologies on our soil and control our supply chains. it is by reducing our imported emissions that we will make progress and it is by protecting our model that we will lead by example. in a context of geopolitical upheaval with major repercussions for our economies, setting binding objectives for states without taking into account their specificities and according to unfair criteria is a leap forward. all this to meet the demands of an unrealistic green deal.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for this own-initiative report on the coherence of development policies which are essential for the european union's foreign policy. this tool deserves new political impetus and more effective implementation. in a geopolitical context marked by climate change, its acceleration, the consequences of covid and the war in ukraine, and at a time when the role of the european union is often questioned by some partners on the international stage, the text proposes concrete recommendations, including the strengthening of coordination mechanisms. being the first funder is commendable, but our role goes beyond our financial involvement. we often lack a more strategic vision. i will take the example of the great green wall, for which the commission is spending 750 million euros a year. looking at it, there is no structural project of the great green wall, but rather a mosaic of programmes that can be put under the banner of this african initiative. the project is often lacking a strategic vision that would make it a response to the challenges of adaptation to climate change, economic development and even displacement of populations. so many issues that are at the heart of our international partnerships. so two more things, two elements, mr president. i think that this policy of coherence in development policy also requires a more integrated vision, a more integrated approach. and finally, we must also have a communication policy, because knowing how to do something is one thing, but knowing how to do it would strengthen this cohesion policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is funding an erasmus study on islamophobia online for more than eur 30 000. the organising association does not hide its proximity to the turkish authorities and the ismailaga movement, which is close to the taliban and is considered by germany to be islamist. as it prepares to sign the istanbul convention, the eu is nowhere near contradictory. when france was mourning the victims of the november 13 attacks, this movement you funded was relativising this barbarity. after the beheading of professor samuel paty, this movement explained that turkey would protect the honor of islam and that europe is an enemy of islam. your europe is funding the promotion of the veil. your europe is therefore that of a youth indoctrinated by islamism. how long will the eu support organisations that condition our children against theirs? how long will it be with those who drink the tears of our fellow citizens? these findings lead to only one question for europe: the upswing or the collapse.
mr president, i would like to welcome, commissioner, the adoption on 4 march of the treaty on the conservation of biodiversity beyond exclusive economic zones, and to welcome the commitment of the european commission and several member states, including my own country, france. this historic treaty would have deserved a little more than a minute, but a debate of at least an hour. it creates a legal framework based on a space of non-law that represents 64% of the surface of the planet. we will be able to create marine protected areas on the high seas and to regulate the exploitation of genetic resources, which are one of the promises of the ocean. the benefits of these resources will be shared with the countries of the south. commissioner, it is now urgent to start the ratification process and not to let the momentum down. i would also like to point out that in these troubled times, it is the ocean that is winning multilateralism. there's only one ocean. he is a treasure for mankind. and the nations of the world have realized that they must come together to preserve it, that the ocean is a common good of humanity. i have campaigned for this moral notion to be incorporated in the preamble to the treaty, because that is its raison d'être. it is not, but i will continue to promote it and i invite the commission to do the same.
mr president, after the qatargate incident involving elected officials, the press is now reporting on trips that could have benefited a senior european official who is in charge of negotiating a very important airline agreement with qatar. this announcement is all the more disturbing because the agreement in question seemed to be in the interests of europe. the european commission, which came to the transport committee to explain the agreement, has, let us say it politely, had difficulty convincing the commissioners of the transparency of the negotiation procedure and the relevance of the agreement. that is, whether these disclosures of a possible conflict of interest are embarrassing and deserve our particular attention. and when i say on our behalf, i mean the entire institution. it is not a question of us, the elected ones, setting ourselves up as prosecutors, much less judges. but i think that the commission should be concerned, for the sake of its image, to shed light on this matter in a transparent manner.
president, the netherlands will go to the polls on wednesday. on wednesday, the balance sheet of 12 years of prime minister rutte will be drawn up. people back home are wondering: am i better off now than i was 12 years ago? is the netherlands a better place? does the netherlands want to continue with uncontrolled immigration, burdens, higher energy bills, mounting debt and stifling eu rules? then the choice is clear. or do the netherlands really think otherwise? a stop to illegal immigration, lower taxes, low inflation, a smaller government and less interference from brussels. will the netherlands opt for more of the same or for a policy that works? on wednesday, the dutch will be able to send their province, country and the eu a different message: direction realistically to the right.
mr president, the earthquake that devastated entire regions of syria and turkey on 6 february 2023 killed more than 50 000 people. the uk, the us and the eu have agreed to suspend part of their sanctions mechanism to facilitate the delivery of humanitarian aid to syria, including aleppo and latakia governorates. these measures were necessary, but they are also a confession. yes, the sanctions imposed on syria have a terrible effect on the local population, even if they have no effect on the political authorities. hungry children, families unable to rebuild their homes, sick people unable to get medical care - this is the most important consequence of the western sanctions regime on syria. human rights are not born in a field of ruins, nor in cemeteries. the sanctions against the syrian people will have to be renewed or not by 1 june 2023. it is urgent that we refuse to extend them if we do not want to add a political drama to a natural disaster.
with this we end our one-minute speeches. this was the last item on our agenda. the next sitting is tomorrow, tuesday 14 march at 9.00.
the agenda of the sitting of 14 march 2023 has been published on the european parliament website.
the minutes of this sitting will be submitted to parliament for its approval tomorrow, 14 march 2023 at the beginning of the afternoon.
the sitting is closed, i wish you all a pleasant evening and night. (the sitting closed at 22.49)
i declare closed the 2022-2023 session of the european parliament.
the european parliament's 2023-2024 session is hereby opened.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner, we are here to debate the data act. data is the primary resource of digital technologies. the development of the cloud, big data, ai and quantum are inextricably linked to the availability of data. and with the development of the iot, the increase in data will be exponential. by 2030, the global value of it services could reach up to eur 11 trillion. and we know from the commission that 80% of industrial data is underused. clearly, europe is not reaping the full value of data. in this context, the data act that we will vote on today has the potential to be an absolute game changer if it can create a data-agile ecosystem that enables easy access to an almost infinite amount of high quality industrial data. in economic terms, this regulation is expected to create eur 270 billion of additional gdp in the eu by 2028. this is of paramount importance for the eu’s competitiveness at a time when data will mainly come from connected things. and we must not forget that anything that can be connected will be, in fact, connected. in other words, data – and especially industrial data – is a growing competitive asset for europe, an asset that we cannot afford not to optimise. let’s not lose sight that what our international competitors are doing – in the us, for example – not only exhibits for more dynamic industrial investment, but it is developing policies such as the inflation reduction act that will further increase disadvantage. dear colleagues, although the eu’s share in global manufacturing exports has declined by nearly 7% since 2004, we still have an outstanding global competitive position in manufacturing. this is why we have urgently to provide the best tools to reinforce our industry, and precisely the data act can be instrumental for our competitiveness in the global markets. the new rules will empower consumers and companies by giving them a say in what can be done with the data generated by their connected products. and here is where the biggest potential of the data act lies for the eu: this regulation will contribute to optimising existing business models and processes, boost the development of new ones and, by doing so, create new values and jobs. we are determined. we are reinforcing this idea constantly. we are determined with our strategic sovereignty. in that sense, during this term, we are adopting a very comprehensive package of digital files: the data governance act, the digital service act, the digital market act, the new review of the nis directive, the artificial intelligence, the electronic identification regulation and the chips act are very clear examples of this. this has been a great achievement for all the institutions. we have the commissioner here. we have also to congratulate the commission and congratulate especially our commissioner. sovereignty is, in any case, very much about our capacity to compete and innovate. and the data act is precisely that. what it is about is competition and innovation. if we have to define with two single words what the data act is about, we can clearly say ‘competitiveness and innovation’. at noon we will be voting on parliament’s position on the data act – a report that was adopted without one single vote against in the itre committee due to the excellent cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs and with the opinion-giving committees, as you know, libe, juri and imco. but also it was such a success because of the clear awareness in this parliament of the importance of this dossier for europe’s future.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – madam president, dear commissioner, cloud services have become essential for the use of available data and for strengthening the competitiveness of the european services sector and industry, which relies heavily on accelerated uptake of cloud services. i believe we should always consider the digitisation of our economies as a holistic challenge, meaning that when introducing new legislation, we should always focus on both users’ and providers’ needs and create a predictable environment that allows the planning of long-term business decisions. this is why, as rapporteur for the imco opinion, with exclusive competences on the cloud services chapter, i welcome that our committee introduced efficient solutions to unlock the potential for cloud computing providers, data processing and portability services, and delivered strongly agile tools that enable customers to take fully informed business decisions. lastly, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs in the imco committee for their work. i believe the data act is a step in the right direction towards unlocking the full potential of data, and i look forward to defending our text during negotiations with the council.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, if you will allow me, i would like to congratulate the european parliament on the work that has been done to arrive at a position on the proposal for a data law. i would like to thank and congratulate first of all the rapporteur, mrs pilar del castillo, and also, of course, all the members of the itre committee and the various committees responsible for opinions, libe, juri and imco. we are at a key moment for the data economy. it has been said and i have said it again. we are all aware that we are facing a wave, a new wave of data, this time industrial, much larger by the way than the wave of personal data that we have known, that we still know, and that helped build the foundations of the data economy. and ultimately, we have the opportunity, through this new wave of industrial data, to increase considerably the added value, the value generated by this data for our economy, for our competitiveness, but also for our society. to seize this opportunity, it was said, europe must act with speed, but also with determination. she's been doing it, we know, since 2020. at the beginning of the mandate, the commission presented a comprehensive, coherent, global and ambitious strategy for data. in may 2022, the co-legislators adopted the first major regulation, the dga, which was intended to build trust between actors engaging in voluntary data exchange. and today we are discussing the last major legislative proposal of this strategy: the data law proposed by the commission a year ago now, and i welcome again the very strong commitment of the european parliament and the member states around this initiative. i would like to remind you that this is a text which is essential for all industrial sectors. it aims to unlock industrial data and also to increase, very importantly, the fairness of access to it in a data economy, to clarify the rights of use of data between, of course, businesses, the 'b2b', between businesses and consumers, the 'b2c', and between businesses and the public sector, the 'b2g'. with the data law, to which reference was made earlier, we have structured and will structure an innovative, open data economy. but of course, open on our terms and in accordance with our values. this means that we pay particular attention to rights, to the rights of consumers, to smes which are at the heart of our industry, to the public interest as well, to the protection of our european data, in a word. and this is crucial for our digital sovereignty. in this context, i am very pleased to see that parliament has maintained a balanced approach to the proposal, to ensure that more actors can benefit from data, while maintaining an incentive framework for investment in the production of such data. i would also like to emphasise here that the data act will serve as a support instrument for smes, focused on their needs, and in particular in broader access to data, in the balance of power of contract negotiations, especially in situations of disagreement. smes often do not have the resources to handle legal litigation. our proposal also includes rules on public sector access to business data. it is important to be able to develop the best public policies on the basis of this data and especially in the event of a crisis. i am aware that parliament proposes to limit this chapter to non-personal data and i note that this would make it considerably more difficult for public authorities to access data, in crisis situations of course, where data, even pseudonymised, could help to find effective and rapid solutions to the urgency of certain situations. in conclusion, i am also pleased to see the desire to stimulate competition in the european cloud market by removing barriers to switching cloud providers. so i hope that we can maintain this ambition to create a fluid and competitive cloud market. in conclusion, let me thank the european parliament again for the work it has done on a very important legislative proposal which i believe is likely to revolutionize the field of data.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear colleagues, today we are discussing legislation that can enhance the european data-driven economy and enable new business models for industry. enabling secure, efficient data sharing among businesses can have a profound impact on the economy, leading to more innovation, growth and job creation. it will provide businesses with the right incentives and support to innovate, develop new products and services based on data and, by doing so, it can create new opportunities for business across europe, driving growth and creating jobs. and i would like to congratulate – because we don’t do that often in this house – the commission, and specifically commissioner breton, but also our rapporteur, pilar del castillo, and also the other colleagues. because we do something, we salute much more – and we should do that in the presence of many more colleagues. we do something for the competitiveness of europe. and that’s the bigger issue. we should be aware that, in the presence of this house, it is much more vivid. if we strangle the european industry, if we regulate, if we create ambitions which are not fostering european competitiveness – and it’s a relatively lonely business or it seems to be – then we are saluting the fact that now we are really substantially contributing to european competitiveness. but we should be aware: it is starting. we are starting to deindustrialise europe. and what had been promised for the green deal has to become a green deal, whereas the second leg – the digital leg – is the one we are saluting today. and it’s a good signal and a good day for the european industry.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very important one. and i want to say something to commissioner breton. we had a talk before he was appointed commissioner. and we talked about a few things, and i want to say here that he kept his word, he told us, and we agreed then that the european union needs cloud services that are in the european union for the european union and for european businesses and european citizens, which he kept his word for. today we are talking again about something that he also mentioned at the inauguration of his tenure as commissioner, that the european union, you know what i say, is a new sheriff in town. so there is no longer a kind of supermarket here where everyone comes in, takes the data from the european union, uses it as they see fit, without anyone being asked, without there being any acceptance, without there being any approval or control from anyone. today, with the data act, we are also putting an end to this regime of, shall we say, naivety that we have been demonstrating. and there's one other very important thing. we all have to be aware that if we do not know how to defend our interests as the european union, if we do not know how to protect our interests, no one will, and the european union is one of the most important actors, and our collaboration and cooperation with all those who are like-minded, those who respect the rules, our rules, of the european union, must align with these rules and be able to do, to carry out their activities in accordance with our standards, with our obligations. we do not negotiate compliance with any european rule, nor do we negotiate non-compliance with any right or obligation enjoyed by any european company or any european citizen. and congratulations to all those who worked on this report and congratulations again to the commission. when he does good things, we have to acknowledge those things as well.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, first of all, of course, i would like to thank my colleagues in the team of rapporteurs with whom i have worked very well to have this text on the table today. a lot of the devices we use today produce data, from simple objects like smart light bulbs, of course, to more complex ones like cars or airplanes. right now we're only using 20% of all this data. if users and companies had, could harness the full potential of data, we could create over 2 million jobs in europe and generate almost €300 billion more to the union's gdp. that's the whole point of data law. first, we're revolutionizing the way we use technology and the internet for the benefit of consumers, by giving back control of data to those who co-generate it. all users will decide who they share it with, who they sell it to, and how they use it. secondly, we will be able to better use the potential of data to access better public services, and thirdly, we are creating a data economy that helps europe to innovate and to tap into this huge potential of industrial data. i think what we have on the table is a very good compromise and i think we have to adopt it and have a strong position in the negotiations with the council.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let us be honest with ourselves. the european union is late to the data battle, now led by the united states and china, and the commission has done so with a proposal that aims to grab more power and pursue an agenda, without measuring how it affects our business fabric or our lives as citizens. on the other hand, the european parliament, with good collaboration between the groups and with the rapporteur, has managed to reduce this negative impact to a great extent by putting the consumer and his safety at the centre of the regulation - especially his protection against abuse - by calling for transparency and compensation, by planning a phased implementation for industry, by technically improving the text and by releasing small and medium-sized enterprises from requirements. but there are certainly some controversial points, because conceptually we have different visions of the european union. the sovereignty of nations, in this case over data, must be national and the decisions belong to that level. for this reason we have tabled amendments to limit the powers which the european institutions have conferred on themselves. it is an opportunity to make this regulation respect the principle of subsidiarity in all its content. let's do it, let's work together, let's keep working together. we therefore call for support for the amendments tabled by our group.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what a pity! that is what inspires me to propose such legislation. for, once unusual, the basic observation prevailing in data legislation was based on a good intuition: to free access to and use of data to enable the creation of new goods and services. but once this is done, it is clear that the data act is a repeat of the european union's perennial errors: lack of strategic vision, blind faith in the market and naivety in its relations with the rest of the world. having completely missed the digital revolutions, the data economy and artificial intelligence, the european commission wants us to believe that the answer to the abysmal gap between europe, the united states and china is digital. in digital would be liberalization. this text, which does not differ from the one tabled by the commission, is nothing more than a pure and simple liberalisation of the data market on the model of the opening up of state monopolies in the 1990s and 2000s. it requires the holder of an essential resource to grant access to it on fair contractual terms, expecting the market to take care of the rest. that logic is completely wrong. worse, it's a reverse reasoning. the priority issue is not so much whether data circulates enough or not enough. the key question is why they are not controlled by european giants within a european innovation ecosystem. the commission is like a child who is too naive to believe that google, facebook, apple and the like are simply the products of brilliant minds locked in their parents' garage. in doing so, it fails to understand that it is the strategic vision of state interventionism that has helped create the digital champions. it is the development of key skills coupled with massive investment in advanced technologies and the establishment of next-generation networks. but again, the union is fundamentally incapable of this kind of reasoning. this text raises many other problems which i cannot deal with in time. nothing on the effective protection of our companies' data against international competitors. nothing about cybersecurity, nothing about abuse of power by public entities that this text seems to completely ignore. no information yet on the cost of access to certain data. so, certainly, the data act can actually help create some economic opportunities on the sidelines. but ultimately, europe is and will remain the digital slave of the rest of the world.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the data regulation, in a word, is about giving access to people and businesses. until now, the rules have not been clear, especially on who can access the data generated in connected products. with this diploma, we give back control to those who produce the data and, at the same time, we open the way to a greater use of this information. a key step in growing the data economy and fostering innovation. as a shadow rapporteur in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco), i focused in particular on the topic of cloud computing. this market is dominated by non-european operators, with three companies concentrating almost all supply. for customers, switching operators is difficult. with this regulation, we remove unjustified barriers and fees, make it easier to switch operators and reduce costs, while protecting trade secrets and intellectual property. i would like to conclude by congratulating the rapporteur, pilar del castillo, and the other rapporteurs, and also commissioner breton, on their excellent work and cooperation. it was hard work and it required a lot of compromise, but we can be proud of the result.
madam president, digital regulation is advancing in europe. we owe it to the vigilance of this parliament. we also owe it to the work of commissioner breton. and this regulation marks an important step in the construction of effective legislation on access, transfer and sharing of non-personal data, the first of which is industrial data. it is a bit commonplace to call data 'the new black gold', but it is true that, like all black gold, it is coveted and we are obliged to protect this data, including vis-à-vis our trading partners who, in this case, are also formidable competitors - i am thinking of the united states and of course china. among the key points in the text, i would like to highlight three. first, the general interest is reinforced by the text, since public bodies will be able to access company data in the event of a crisis situation. secondly, it has been said, it is a breakthrough for consumers who will benefit from data portability from one cloud to another and who will have access, free of charge, that is important, to the data generated by the connected objects they own. lastly, the extended framework for data transfers to third countries: the text strengthens the protection of our industries and their know-how. we will have to be vigilant in the trilogue because this is not yet fully settled. but i think we're going in the right direction and we need to keep going.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we live in a time where data is the new currency. but much of our data remains intact. 80% of industrial data, as of today, is never used. i think it is really time that we broke up the data silos that we still have in the european union. the data act is an important milestone in this respect. it's finally regulating access to data from networked devices, machines, i'd say, from refrigerators to airplane turbines. the data act will make data more easily accessible, useful and valuable for citizens in the european union, for administrations, for businesses and for society as a whole. the big challenge with the data act was to find the right balance between the different interests. i think, ladies and gentlemen, that we have succeeded quite well, especially since we will also have our own legal framework for individual data areas such as the health data area. citizens are using smart devices. it was important to me that data protection should apply in this area as well, that the citizen should decide who does what with his data. secondly, it was of course important to give small and mediumsized enterprises and start-ups in particular easier access to industrial and machine data in the future. we have succeeded in doing so. on the other hand, we have also ensured that trade secrets continue to be protected. what's important in the data world is that we create trusted environments. i think we have succeeded with this legislative act, with the data law. i would also like to thank our rapporteur, mrs pilar del castillo, and all the colleagues from the political groups who have worked very hard on this dossier. i think we have taken a really good step towards building a data economy and a data society.
madam president, i’m sorry to be only now here. physical travel from finland took a bit longer in france. but this winter, the competitiveness of the european industry and economy have been a great cause of political discussion due to high energy prices, the war on the continent and the upheaval of the global supply chains. we need to enact more robust european industrial policy fit for this challenge in the world to create more decent jobs and welfare. the data act is a key element on the regulatory side to give a push for european data innovations and data markets to be created. we need a clear framework to enable fair and open utilisation of data by private businesses, consumers and the public sector. the single market is europe’s greatest power and the source of the ‘brussels effect’. so by shaping the emerging data market now, we are showing that the global data market can reflect the european objectives of competition, consumer protection and democratic rules. dear colleagues, it is a historic day. we will create a new right by legislation. when buying or renting a product that produces data, an enterprise or consumer will not only be a source and object for data collection, but will have a right to the data the use of the product provides. doesn’t it sound reasonable? yes, it does. is it a fact today? no, it is not. so let’s do this and there will be a right for the user to know what data the use of the machine is collecting and providing and have a say how it can be used. this will unleash a lot of data for the new services and hopefully also disruptive innovations. some estimates say that 80% of this so-called industrial data is unused in silos. i am very happy already to see companies in health and hospitals working for better ways to use data for our good. i was very delighted to talk to farmers who are waiting for this to happen and thinking of the ways they can utilise the data produced in their own farms. repair services are there to employ more people as we will reduce waste and material use by better repair possibilities. the efficient use of, and fair access to, data will provide a new competitive edge for many smes in europe. i am confident also that this legislation will be useful if something serious like the pandemic happens. there will be well framed rules in place to use data to help society through public sector action to work for the best of citizens. i want to thank the rapporteur, the commissioner and many colleagues and so many others around europe who believed in this fair data economy already when we wrote together the brave vision for the european data strategy, including these business-to-business data sharing rules. so, colleagues, i urge you all to vote in favour so we can start trilogues as soon as possible.
madam president, commissioner, fictitious rapporteurs, colleagues, in parallel with the reindustrialisation work we are doing in europe, we must also work on the digitisation of our industries, in particular by better exploiting our industrial data. today, more and more objects and products are connected, including, of course, heavy industrial products, such as a train locomotive. all this produces data which is not always exploited to its full potential. the text we are voting on today will make it easier to share data. for example, a railway company, taking the train as an example, will be able to access the data of the trains it buys more easily and thus reduce the number of breakdowns thanks to the information collected. and fewer outages, which means fewer delays for travellers. that is one example, i was going to say, among thousands of others. easier access to data also means better access for consumers. when a product is connected, it is important that the consumer can freely use his own data. finally, the data act will remove the barriers to moving from one cloud computing service to another - the famous clouds. it is not acceptable for a cloud client to be stuck with a provider because of excessively high transfer fees. these are anti-competitive practices and we must be able to put an end to them. we must abolish these charges, whatever the situation. colleagues, we must remember that our data, especially industrial data, is valuable. it is therefore equally important that data produced in europe is also processed more easily in europe. the data act is moving in that direction and i am delighted.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, president nausėda, president of lithuania, i welcome you to the european parliament. all the political groups have, from the outset, expressed our clear, absolute condemnation of the russian invasion of ukraine and your presence here is an opportunity to discuss the future of the european union: what must we do to stop the european union from ageing, to weaken its geopolitical and economic role in the world and to move more effectively to meet the demands and anxieties of citizens? to achieve this, we need a european union that is not just a common market and 'a little bit of political union'. we need a stronger community budget, more than 1% of european gdp, with more own resources, with more money to reduce the social disparities that have increased, to support the poorest countries and the poorest social groups, to implement the green deal; a european union that must remain a project of peace and democracy. why democracy suffers even within the european union: the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must therefore respect the rule of law and avoid the risk of paralysis in the council, where unanimity is often used as a weapon by blackmailers, by governments who block the functioning of the european union, in order to blackmail, to achieve something for their own interests. the enlargement, let's be honest about it. we must not promise the people of moldova, georgia and ukraine things that take years and changes and conditions. watch your step! enlargement to the western balkans was decided at the thessaloniki summit in my homeland in 2003 and 20 years later the countries of the western balkans are waiting for the european union to implement its commitments and of course they too must make the necessary reforms. we must not make the same mistake again, promising populist things that we cannot deliver tomorrow.
madam president, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last friday in washington, ursula von der leyen submitted to joe biden. without a mandate from the council, the president of the european commission announced our complete alignment with american interests. she sacrificed our auto industry and promised a rare earth deal. it is thus, without any control, part of a dangerous us strategy of tension with china. of course, we are attached to the historic friendship which binds us to the united states and, of course, to nato as a defence alliance. but europe's vital, commercial and geopolitical interests are obviously not the same as those of washington. the war on our borders in ukraine, the food and energy security of our countries, our economic competitiveness must remain our only concerns. mrs von der leyen seems to be pursuing a personal agenda in reality. she's giving away her money in the hopes of becoming secretary general of nato in 2024. but in a world more uncertain than ever, europe and its nations must act as a reserve to find the path of power that alone can guarantee independence. the european council must therefore urgently take matters into its own hands, put ursula von der leyen back in her place and put the interests of our continent first.
madam president, president nausėda, commissioner, i remember that, in the late 1970s, my father, with a map in his hand, taught me, my brother and my sister, that baltic states were not soviet union. they were occupied and they remained independent. i remember that, in 1987, our prime minister, from our party, cavaco silva – who was prime minister ten years and president of the republic ten years – had a huge conflict with the parliament because he didn’t agree with a visit to the soviet union, where the territories of baltic states were included. and the government fell down because he was defending this principle. so, i have to tell you that, for decades, we were in the european union defending the sovereignty and the future of democracy and freedom to lithuania, latvia and estonia. and today, mr president, we are very proud because your country became a world front runner of defence, of democracy, of freedom, of human rights. this was clear when you sent all the support to the ukrainian people, but also when you are claiming for democracy in belarus and when you are saying that you don’t accept the blackmail of china. the example of the ukrainian solidarity shows that you want for other countries in europe, and i dare say in world, the same fate that lithuania had, which was in a very, very oppressive regime and managed to become independent and to give freedom, prosperity and human rights’ respect to all the citizens. i would like to thank you, to say ačiū, mr president, to all the lithuanian people and also to you and to your government. let me try to invite you to have here your say on the prospects for belarus and how we should shape our relation with china. because the lithuanian experience is a very important one and can set the example to all of us.
madam president, mr president, commissioners, it takes courage to support the ukrainian people unconditionally, as lithuania has always done. it takes courage to open its borders by welcoming and protecting those who oppose lukashenko's dictatorial regime. it takes courage to stand up to a belligerent russian neighbour with expansionist threats. it takes courage to stand up to chinese authoritarianism. it takes courage to never turn your back on your allies. your country has had this courage, your people embody it. your country has shown us what some people did not want to see and still do not want to see: that national sovereignty is strengthened by european solidarity. your country demonstrates what some reject: that greater european unity means protecting our values and our citizens. yes, the european union must always remain united. that is why, as you have said, a strong, responsive and effective anti-coercion instrument, which cannot be blocked by a member state, is imperative. yes, it is necessary to be able to react, to be able to protect ourselves when third states seek to restrict our freedom. mr president, your country and the lithuanians are showing that acting as europeans is the only way to defend democracy, to respond to today's challenges, and to build our strategic autonomy. in the face of the pandemic, we acted like europeans: the group purchase of vaccines, the transfer of patients between member states, the adoption of the recovery plan. in the face of ukraine's illegal and unjustified aggression, we are acting as europeans: sanctions, macro-financial assistance, arms supplies. in the face of the energy crisis, we continue to act as europeans: creating new supply lines, reinvesting in new green energy sources, creating a social climate fund. in the face of the sirens of division, we must continue to act as europeans: strengthen the dialogue between our societies, strengthen the dialogue between our states, strengthen the dialogue with third states. let us continue to act as sovereign europeans in solidarity. because to break critical dependencies, to feed our fellow citizens, to meet the challenge of climate change, to leave no one behind, we need to engage in dialogue, to make progress, but above all, to act together. we in parliament are ready for that. it's up to us to follow that path. the way your people are paving the way so that these actions do not go unanswered and that we collectively live up to the concerns and aspirations of all europeans. and let me also say, mr president, that my colleague nicolas bay has already left the chamber and has not said a word about your country, but the french will never take the line defended by the national rally and all the extremes.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. – madam president, dear colleagues, i will speak on behalf of my colleague petri sarvamaa, who is the rapporteur of the budget opinion on the european semester for economic policy coordination 2023. first, we would like to thank ms tinagli for this report. it raises important and topical issues related to the current challenges and opportunities of the eu economy. the annual european semester cycle has also an important role in anticipating the eu’s economic outlook. coming from the budget committee perspective, mr sarvamaa has a few observations. we need to remember how uncertain times we are living because of past current and future crises. all of these relate to the uncertain economic outlook of the european union. on the other hand, it is good that we have been able to respond to this crisis. the most concrete example is the recovery and resilience facility and its stabilising impact on the eu economy. it is also good that we have started to discuss the economic sustainability of the eu in the long term, especially bearing in mind that government debt-to-gdp ratios are historically high. member states should be able to return to a sustainable budgetary approach eventually. lastly, it is worth mentioning that the introduction of new own resources, as agreed also in the interinstitutional agreement, is crucially important so that the next generation eu debt can be refinanced without detriment to future programmes.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you for this opportunity to hold the regular discussion on the european semester here today. the european semester remains a very important framework to ensure effective policy coordination across four dimensions: environmental sustainability, productivity, fairness and macroeconomic stability. all of these are key for the economic prosperity and sustainable competitiveness of our union. the policy coordination is more important than ever, as we are facing multiple challenges resulting from russia’s war of aggression against ukraine. our post-covid recovery is being challenged at various levels and this requires policy measures that are supportive of inclusive and sustainable growth. rising inflation, interest rates and energy prices have left many companies and households struggling. given this mix of challenges, our policies must remain coordinated and flexible. the eu and the member states must work both on immediate actions to address the current challenges and notably the long strategy to boost competitiveness and productivity for a green and digital transition. these crucial questions will be on the agenda at the next week’s european council. we must step up our efforts to implement the digital and green transition. this requires swift, targeted and coordinated actions both at the eu and national levels to carry out structural reforms. with nextgenerationeu and repowereu, we also have funding to finance key investments and reforms in member states. honourable members, so far, labour markets are proving surprisingly resilient. but there are several challenges. real wages are declining, which are weighing on households. at the same time, employers are finding it hard to hire in some sectors. that is why we need more ambitious actions at the eu and national level to promote skills through education, training, upskilling and reskilling. therefore, i am happy that this is emphasised in the european year of skills 2023. in the context of demographic challenges, these actions will contribute to meet the challenges of labour shortages and the transformation of jobs. policies geared towards skills and competences for the green transition hold the key to europe’s full resilience and prosperity. honourable members, as council presidency, we intend to ensure a smooth european semester cycle and that all parties concerned do their utmost to achieve the common objectives of seeing the country-specific recommendations approved by the european council in june. allow me also to add a word on the reform of the eu economic governance framework. the council has been working intensely on the commission’s orientation for this reform, and the presidency has worked hard to find a compromise. we hope that we will find a compromise that all states can agree on. many of the multiple challenges we are facing require ambitious reforms and substantial investments. moreover, we need to address the increase of public debts as a result of the covid crisis and the war in ukraine. reducing these high levels of debt should be done in a gradual and realistic manner. we now stand ready to examine the commission’s new legislative proposal on economic governance.
member of the commission. – madam president, first, in the name of my colleagues, vice-president dombrovskis and commissioner gentiloni, who are attending today’s ecofin, and myself, i would like to thank the rapporteurs ms tinagli and ms estrella durá ferrandis, and the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on employment and social affairs for their reports, which provide a valuable contribution in view of the european semester priorities for 2023. let me first focus on the economic and fiscal side. the european economy is facing multiple shocks, but has shown also remarkable resilience. we narrowly avoided a recession and started 2023 on a more optimistic footing. but even if the peak of inflation appears to be behind us, consumers and businesses still struggle with high energy and food prices, and inflationary pressures remain. so while the economy is doing better than initially expected, we are not out of the woods yet. in all, in 23, growth is likely to remain subdued. there are also structural challenges we need to tackle the eu’s energy dependence, the green and digital transitions, skills shortages and the need to strengthen our overall competitiveness. all this against the background of high uncertainty as russia continues its criminal aggression against ukraine. the european semester has proven to be an agile instrument for european policy coordination. our focus now is to deal with the immediate consequences of the ongoing shocks and to meet longer term common eu objectives and priorities. in recent months, member states and the commission have worked to coordinate targeted and affordable measures to cushion the impact of the energy crisis on vulnerable households and the most impacted businesses, while safeguarding public finances and the single market. together with the erf, the semester will continue to ensure an effective reform momentum in each member state up to 2026. combined with the reform and investment strategies enabled by other eu programmes. fiscal policy coordination is vital. it provides an anchor of stability, supports investments in the twin transition, strengthens resilience, and allows buffers to be built to cope with future shocks. last week, the commission presented its orientations for fiscal policy for 2024. after three years of sizeable fiscal support, the focus should now be on improving debt sustainability. prudent fiscal policy will support monetary policy in the current high-inflation environment. as the european economy is no longer in severe downturn, we confirm that the general escape clause will be deactivated at the end of 2023. the guidance also reflects the fact the eu’s fiscal framework is in a transition phase. as views converge on several key issues, the commission intends to table legislative proposals after the european council later this month. the guidance should be seen as a bridge between how the rules have worked in the past and how they may work in the future. this means that certain elements of the commission’s reform orientations can already be applied. to be specific, we invite member states to set fiscal targets that ensure the respect of the 3% of gdp deficit reference value and ensure a path for credible continuous debt reduction over keeping it at sustainable levels. on that basis in spring, the commission will propose fiscal recommendations with a quantitative requirement as well as qualitative guidance on investment and energy measures. as regards the measures to cushion the impact of high energy prices on households and businesses remaining measures should be better targeted on those most affected. moreover, as energy prices head lower, governments should move to phasing out most of the support measures, starting with the least targeted ones. finally, all member states should preserve investment to boost sustainable and inclusive growth in line with the common eu priorities, namely in the field of fair transitions. the co-legislators have acted rapidly to phase out the eu’s dependence on russian fossil fuels, promote zero carbon sources and strengthen energy resilience. now that the repower eu regulation has come into force, we are leveraging the recovery and resilience facility to achieve a secure, affordable and sustainable supply of energy. revising national recovery and resilience plans and incorporating repowereu chapters with additional funding represent an opportunity to respond to persistent as well as to new challenges in the context of the new green deal industrial plan. let me now turn to the employment skills and social dimension. the employment report provides an important input on the employment and social priorities, focusing, inter alia, on wage and social protection policies, the european child guarantee, the use of distributional impact assessments, as well as its call for the strengthening of the social dimension of the semester and the introduction of a social convergence framework. this important debate on the european semester takes indeed place in an uncertain, as already mentioned, in an uncertain and challenging environment. while the unemployment rate remains low overall in the union, at only 6.1%, specific groups are still under-represented in the employment statistics. in particular, youth unemployment is still very high at 15%, and the employment gap between women and men continues to be substantial, 10.8 percentage points. furthermore, the potential of older workers is not sufficiently used. at the same time, labour and skills shortages are increasing across member states and sectors and this is also due to inadequate quality, equity and labour market relevance of the education and training systems. let me just mention one particular issue, which is appalling. it’s the youth neet rate, which still remains high with over 13%. this represents and this represents a real challenge with more than 8 million young people excluded from the labour market and all kinds of training schemes. a social problem with long lasting consequences, a major loss for our economies facing labour shortages, and here i think strong action is absolutely needed. with the ongoing high inflation, we still need prompt, adequate and well-targeted policy responses to address poverty risks, as more people and households are experiencing a drop in real incomes. adequate wage policies and updates of minimum wages in line with the directive as well as collective bargaining, play a key role to prevent increases of in-work poverty. this is particularly important as inflation has significantly outpaced wage growth so far, which brings social risks, especially for low-wage earners. the european semester remains the key integrated policy coordination framework to address these challenges and pursue key common priorities. let me underline that coordinated policy action in this semester is key to advance the implementation of the european pillar of social rights. i welcome parliament’s call to progress in the implementation of the european pillar of social rights in the framework of the european semester and the economic governance review. implementing the 21 pillar action plan also means advancing on the 2030 eu headline and national targets, unemployment skills and poverty reduction. this requires that ambitious reforms and investments are put into place by member states in line with the commitments made in porto for a strong social europe. this is all the more important also in view of the very significant transformations that europe has to undergo to affirm itself as a global leader on the twin transitions. skills are, of course, central to this. and this is why 23, as the european year of skills, will be crucial in promoting skills acquisition, reskilling and upskilling, helping people get the right skills for quality jobs. through the green deal industrial plan, we will further accelerate our work on skills for the green transition, including digital skills with the final aim of supporting competitive and sustainable industrial policies in the eu and creating quality jobs. skills are an essential tool for our competitiveness as well as for enhancing productivity. the revisions of the recovery and resilience plans in the context of repowereu give all member states an opportunity to boost green skills and reskill our workforce, and also importantly to address the causes of energy poverty. the semester itself will evolve, discussions are ongoing on the economic governance review and, in parallel, member states are discussing a possible new social convergence framework. this will have implications for the future european semester of economic and employment policy coordination. and i am sure that by using the tools we have more effectively, we can make the semester stronger as a framework to jointly pursue our common priorities and achieve a fairer, more inclusive and greener growth with a competitive and innovative economy that works for people.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. europe faces enormous challenges in the months ahead. the european economy is on the verge of recession. many member states are heavily indebted. inflation is at record levels, the cost of financing is rising, and at the same time enormous efforts are needed to restructure our economy. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the european semester is the right instrument for this. we also have to acknowledge that the past semester has not been particularly effective. we have already pointed out ten years ago as the epp group that the roof must be repaired when the sun is shining, before the next storm arrives. that opportunity was missed. even then, it was foreseeable that the enormous debt levels in many member states and the lack of competitiveness would become a problem at the latest when interest rates were rising again and the cost of refinancing was skyrocketing. many member states have not used the good years to consolidate their budgets but have instead accumulated further debt, mostly for consumer spending. they have done nothing for competitiveness, they have delayed structural reforms. for us as the epp, this means that this year, with the forthcoming reform of economic governance in mind, we want to focus even more than usual on the very heart of the semester: responsible fiscal policy and measures to strengthen competitiveness.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in an environment of rising interest rates and high inflation, we must pursue a socially responsible, climate-neutral transformation of our economy. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that high inflation does not lead to growing social inequalities and the impoverishment of wider sections of the population. we need a sustained and significant increase in investment in climate-neutral and digital transformation. this is not just about private investment; we also need a substantial increase in public investment. we need new regular revenue to ensure sound financing of public budgets. this is why the minimum tax on large companies, a levy on large fortunes and the financial transaction tax are on the agenda. in the midst of all this , we must realize: the single internal market with a single currency requires clear european rules and, above all, european solidarity. we must realize this in the reform of fiscal rules.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow in this house we, the members of the european parliament, will vote on the european semester 2023. this annual cycle coordinates economic policies between member states and assesses their compatibility with our european priorities. so far, it has been misunderstood by our fellow europeans because it is too complex. it needs to be simplified, but not only. for democracy, the national parliaments and the european parliament must have a say. this report comes at a pivotal moment in the review of the economic governance rules designed to monitor and reduce the debt and public deficit of the member states. in the current context of runaway inflation, we cannot afford to make mistakes. these rules, which will be revised in the coming months, need to be simplified, pragmatic and ambitious to meet today's challenges of strategic autonomy and the ecological and digital transition, in a context of major uncertainty.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, the european semester process is still largely an economic exercise. the european parliament should support the idea that economic and social convergence should be placed on an equal footing in the next review of economic governance. in a document published ahead of the may 2021 porto social summit, the governments of belgium and spain proposed an instrument to address social imbalances: the social imbalance procedure or, as the commission now prefers to call it, the social convergence framework. such a procedure would address social imbalances that could negatively affect working or living conditions in a country and, in turn, have an indirect effect on the euro area as a whole. the risk of social imbalances for each country would be determined by the number of indicators that are detected in a deteriorating situation, such as an excessive level of early school leaving or a widening gender pay gap. when a state is found to have social imbalances, the commission would act in dialogue with that member state. we know the council is working on it. i think the best way to give the european semester a real social soul would be to make this proposal a reality.
the european semester is the cycle which must coordinate the economic and budgetary policies of the member states. the objectives are to maintain prosperity and growth and to safeguard our competitiveness. the challenge is now being exacerbated by the inflation reduction act (ira) and its long train of subsidies. the european response to this cannot and must not follow the same logic. we must not lose out to the united states in terms of subsidies. - no, it's the opposite. a conservative estimate is that we are already pumping over 500 billion euros in subsidies into our industries, spread over several years. if we are serious about strengthening our competitive position and about a serious response to the ira, then we must have the courage to ask a crucial question: more money, more subsidies, is that the right answer? subsidies have been at the heart of european economic policy for decades, in the hope that they would be enough to attract investment and promote growth. that was only partially successful. we are not behind because of a lack of subsidies, and we should not look for our opportunities there. the focus must finally be on less red tape, more sensible regulation, simpler procedures and less bureaucracy, in short, on more freedom and more oxygen. the rather static subsidy model leads to a cycle of often inefficient spending and is not conducive to economic growth in the longer term.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. my fellow members of parliament! the european semester, which was born under the hungarian presidency in 2011, was originally intended to coordinate the economic processes of the member states and to ensure financial discipline. it has now become heavily overloaded, overtaken by left-wing pressure and ideologically charged. the commission also already holds member states to account on matters which fall within their national competence. i have four suggestions. first, we must not go green at the expense of competitiveness, cohesion and convergence, but rather in tandem. secondly, the commission should not overstep its bounds by issuing country-specific recommendations, but should issue them in an objective manner, adapted to the situation of the member state, avoiding even the suspicion of double standards. this requires a meaningful dialogue between the member state and the commission. third, the recovery tool addressed a one-time situation, the covid crisis. it is not appropriate to update the economic coordination framework on that basis. finally, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. a little restraint: i suggest that the ep itself respect the rules of the game. it should remain within its own competence, not claim greater influence in the processes of economic coordination. this would stop ideology from being the main focus, and everyone could focus on efficiency and execution.
madam president, over the last few months i feel like i have been visited by the ghost of christmas past. but of course, this ghost is not about christmas. it’s about the ghost of the 2008 financial crisis. talking about a danger of higher wages in time of inflation. and i think it’s high time to say good-bye to this old school, outdated neoliberal narrative. it’s the profits, not the wages that are pushing up inflation. so let me repeat that again: it’s the profit, not wages that are pushing up inflation. we cannot have the eu hit by austerity again, for we really need a true convergence of the social and economic policies. so when the commission is going to propose its plan for the revision of the economic governance framework, i expect a mandatory social objective. i expect a social dimension before we all expect a visit of the ghost of austerity yet to come.
madam president, minister, commissioner, in the face of unemployment concerns during the covid crisis, we have set up the sure joint instrument to guarantee a common salary for everyone. in response to the energy crisis linked to the war in ukraine and to achieve our carbon neutrality targets, we are creating the social climate fund. in the face of demands to support european competitiveness, we are pushing for more flexibility on state aid. but we must not stop there, because shocks follow one another and our fellow citizens, especially the most vulnerable, suffer the consequences. the european commission has outlined the main lines of a reform of the stability and growth pact. it is imperative that this goes hand in hand with an ambitious reform of the european semester. the indicators for monitoring and coordinating our policies must evolve. to evolve to enable the european union to cope with increasingly stronger and more severe crises. to move towards action rooted in social progress and the fight against climate change. in fact, we must move towards a fairer europe which responds to the aspirations and concerns of all our citizens.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, the social safety nets in our member states are a trademark of what europe stands for in terms of solidarity, social inclusion and cohesion. building on the council conclusions from 2020, the epsco council reached an agreement on the recommendation on adequate minimum income last december. the recommendations include substantial measures to improve access to the labour market for those who can work. indeed, strengthening an inclusive labour market is important to mitigate long-term dependence on income support. for example, this can be done through activation requirements that provide incentives to enter or re-enter the labour market, supporting job seeking and improving investments in human capital through education and training policies. as this parliament’s motion for a resolution also recalls, the fight against unemployment is the best tool to fight poverty. and, as you all know, to fight unemployment, you need to boost our long term competitiveness. at policy level, member states are recommended, among others, to provide a coherent package of income support and labour market activation measures and to empower stakeholders to effectively participate in the design and implementation of the minimum income scheme. in order to ensure that minimal income schemes, in accordance with national traditions and legislations, reach all those who need it, member states are recommended to assure ensure that all persons who lack sufficient resources are covered by minimum income. on the take-up problem raised in the oral question, member states are recommended to encourage or facilitate the full take-up of minimum income. the ways to do this will depend on the context in each member state. the recommendations include various measures ranging from simplification of the application to raise awareness and facilitate the take-up among persons who lack sufficient resources. ensuring that minimum income schemes do not substitute social policy measures will be a matter for careful and regular assessment by member states in their national legislative context. to achieve our goals, we need to involve relevant stakeholders. let me stress that if we address and try to improve the prospects for a life in dignity for those most in need, it is a contribution to the cohesion of our whole society and the resilience of our democracy.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i would first like to thank the parliament for putting this issue of adequate minimum income high on its agenda. i would also like to thank the employment committee for its resolution on minimum income that focuses on the accessibility, adequacy and enabling aspects of minimum income schemes with a view to promoting upward social convergence. against the background of the multiple crises that we are facing, we need to work together to ensure social cohesion. we are on the same side on the fight against poverty, social exclusion and inequality. more than one in five people – and this has already been said – in the eu are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. the situation might worsen in view of the soaring living costs and economic uncertainty, so we must ensure our safety nets are up to the task. guaranteeing that every person who lacks sufficient resources can have access to adequate income support and services that foster inclusion is essential: essential to ensure a decent standard of living; essential for human dignity; essential to build fair and resilient economies and societies; and essential to promote active participation in society. inspired by principle 14 of the european pillar of social rights on minimum income, the commission proposed the council recommendation that has now been approved by the council. this recommendation aims to improve the adequacy of income support while ensuring sufficient incentives for those who are able to work to enter or re-enter the labour market. the recommendation is part of a comprehensive package to tackle poverty and social exclusion to achieve upward social and economic convergence and to promote solidarity, as put forward in the european pillar of social rights and its action plan. for recipients who can work, minimum income should act as a stepping stone towards employment or complement the income from work in view of specific personal or family circumstances. member states are now called to achieve the proposed adequacy levels by 2030. they are expected to regularly review and adjust the level of minimum income. the recommendation also focuses on making access to the labour market more inclusive. this can be done through improving skills, safeguarding work incentives or creating work opportunities in the social economy. it also calls for supporting those who cannot immediately work through social inclusion plans. lastly, it calls for improving effective access to support services. at the commission, we continue to work together with member states via the social protection committee and the network of the national authorities responsible for minimum income. we will also support and complement member states’ action via the european semester. the european social fund plus will be a key driver to implement the recommendation. it will provide large-scale financial support for disadvantaged groups and marginalised communities. it will make member states more resilient while promoting socially fair green and digital transitions. and the recovery and resilience facility is also promoting reforms of minimum income systems in line with the principles set out in the recommendation. the stocktaking of the recommendation will take place in 2030. this time horizon is aligned with the 2030 headline poverty reduction target as well as with the targets on employment and skills. member states have welcomed these targets and presented their own national targets. regarding the poverty reduction target, the sum of the national targets exceeds the eu target. that is good news, but it is now time to walk the talk. the european semester, including the joint employment report, will yearly monitor the progress on the headline targets and on the national targets. every three years, the commission and the social protection committee will also prepare a joint report on the progress in implementing the recommendations. let me now address the specific issue of non-take-up that you have raised. this is a common challenge for all the member states. on average, around 30-50% of the eligible population do not seek the minimum income support they would be entitled to. the recommendation invites member states to facilitate the full take-up of minimum income by reducing administrative burden, simplifying the application procedures and ensuring step-by-step guidance, by ensuring access to user-friendly and transparent information, by combating stigmatisation and intensifying reaching out, and finally by regularly assessing the reasons behind the low take-up. the recommendation also calls upon member states to establish transparent and non-discriminatory eligibility criteria that would facilitate access to minimum income. this can help increase coverage and reach some groups which, despite their need, are not covered in some member states. i am thinking of young adults, non-nationals or the homeless. finally, let me underline that the successful implementation of the recommendation requires broad ownership across all stakeholders, including social partners. the european social partners were consulted on the content of this proposal and the commission will promote social partners’ involvement using the existing fora of the european social dialogue. the commission also urges member states to engage in a policy dialogue with civil society organisations, people experiencing poverty, social partners and other economic and social actors in implementing and monitoring the recommendation, including to deliver on its active inclusion approach. and finally, your parliament can be an important actor also in relation to the implementation of this recommendation. we remain, of course, ready also to facilitate sharing good practices between member states in order precisely to implement the recommendations.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! the problem of poverty and social exclusion in the european union is a serious one. in the wake of the covid pandemic and the dramatic rise in the cost of living, it has once again become a priority issue, affecting all member states without exception and more than a quarter of our citizens. it's certainly a complex problem, and we need to look at it in its entirety. minimum income schemes can be an important element in the fight against poverty and exclusion. they can, but only if they are tailor-made, readily available to those in need and - perhaps most importantly - part of the larger social welfare system and linked to vocational activation measures to reintegrate the most excluded into the labour market. providing access to education, training opportunities and personalised career guidance are key elements of modern social support that we cannot forget. all of this is not an easy task and i believe that in order to achieve this, national minimum income systems must be designed as closely as possible to the citizen and to the specificities of each member state. that is why i am not in favour of a european directive on this matter. i believe that there are other tools available to both the member states and the european commission which must be implemented first and foremost to ensure that all those who are entitled to receive the support are able to do so, because unfortunately, it is estimated that at the moment, not even half of them are receiving the support they are entitled to. i therefore call on the member states to be pragmatic and responsible and to be determined in implementing the recently adopted council recommendations on a responsible minimum income.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we are only halfway through the month, but for a lot of european citizens now the struggle begins. transaction denied when you’re trying to buy food at a supermarket. you’re feeling guilty keeping your child at home because of a very expensive school trip. you’re ignoring the calls of your landlord on your phone when he’s asking where the rent is. today, a minimum income doesn’t lift people out of poverty. too many people are struggling every day, putting all of their energy into a fight for survival. the soaring cost of living crisis is hitting the most vulnerable households the hardest. how do we lift people out of poverty? we need an adequate minimum income that ensures that every european citizen is able to buy food, to afford their rent, to be able to pay their electricity bills, and to be able to find a good job. this is about a young spanish guy that, with no support from his parents, can now afford a good education. this is about a middle-aged belgian woman who took care of the children instead of working, and whom we need to protect so she doesn’t end up in poverty after a divorce. this is about supporting people with long-term illnesses who cannot work in order to make sure that they don’t end up in poverty. these are the people that would benefit most from minimum income above the poverty threshold, but as of today, not one of our member states has decided to implement this. so tomorrow, colleagues, the choice is yours: do we continue on the same path and let the most vulnerable people down, or do we give these people the hope and the perspective they deserve by supporting the resolution of the committee on employment and social affairs (empl)? i ask you, vote tomorrow for a directive on minimum income. vote for the most vulnerable people’s future.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the basic principle of the minimum income is that all people are obliged to give it as an aid for the rest of their lives. i reject this approach for several reasons. more people will become inactive because they choose charity over work. as a result, the competitiveness of european countries is declining. the balance of the social welfare system is being upset, and there are fewer and fewer contributors and more and more beneficiaries. this is guaranteed to bring economic collapse and bankruptcy. in hungary, nearly one million new jobs have been created in ten years. the personal income tax rate is uniformly 15 percent for everyone, and a very strong family tax credit system helps people live better lives, as does the tax exemption for young people under 25. a work-based society is the key to a better and fairer future. because when you have a job, you have everything.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the latest figures from the last eurobarometer survey actually make the drama and necessity of this debate clear once again. 92 per cent of europeans fear social degradation. 42% say they are currently having great difficulty paying their current bills at all, and 45% say they have experienced a significant loss of living standards in the inflation crisis so far. so this is all adding to the situation that we had before, that we had before covid, where we had the poverty reduction issue in the spotlight here and said, the situation is dramatic, but the situation has actually become even more dramatic because of covid and the inflation crisis, and i'm advocating to continue to play the issue holistically. i think we cannot simply say that when we make a directive we have taken a successful step towards poverty reduction. it is simply important to me that we as a whole continue along the path we have taken together with a large majority in this house. we have really delivered as the eu; we have introduced the european minimum wage. we are now on the subject of platform regulation. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. this is also an important aspect of the fight against poverty and the organisation of participation. because that must be our driving force, too. we don't want to feed people, we want to organize sharing for people. that is why i am not going to make it so easy for myself and say: 'just a yes or no directive, then all problems are solved', but i am continuing to advocate a holistic approach.
mr president, the prices of groceries have also risen for the elderly who have a small pension. the rent of the disabled has also increased. and for those on welfare, the energy bill is no longer payable. payment problems are increasing all over europe. and poverty rates are skyrocketing, along with rising prices. the minimum income is no longer sufficient to pay the bills and to live a decent life. not only the minimum wage, but also the minimum income must be sufficient for people. we must have the courage to ask the member states to do so. we must have the courage to demand this of the member states. that is why i am in favour of a directive on minimum income. if someone tells me this is impossible, i say: we'll see about that. we don't have time to be playing with our thumbs anymore. don't tell me that it's not possible. let 's get on with it . the commission has also adopted a 'minimum income' directive.
mr president, commissioner, more than one in five people in the european union are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. behind that figure are individuals in pain. this reality is unbearable. in this context, it is crucial to have robust minimum income schemes. it's a social justice measure. the council adopted its recommendation on the subject. it is a non-binding instrument for the member states. i would ask you, commissioner, to submit a directive on the minimum income. this directive must be able to ensure that the minimum income in each country is adequate so that everyone can live with dignity. it must also coordinate our approaches to strengthening return to employment policies. it is our responsibility as citizens to achieve a fairer europe, one that promotes the emancipatory dimension of work everywhere, but always accompanies those who need it most.
mr president, commissioner, madam minister, the evidence is clear: increased insecurity, crisis, increasing poverty and difficulty in getting enough to eat. we must guarantee a minimum income for all. and to guarantee that, we need a directive, a strong directive that imposes it. so i hear some people speaking out against this draft directive. how can your finger tremble when it comes to finally bringing his protection to the most vulnerable? in france, for example, young people are now standing in line to receive food aid to eat. and our rsa does not allow them to benefit from this minimum income. today, only two member states guarantee a minimum income worthy of the name. so, ladies and gentlemen, i urge you to tip the balance so that a european directive is finally adopted and not to side with those who do not consider human dignity to be essential.
mr president, in france there is a minimum income called the active solidarity income, the rsa. but if you're under 25, you're not allowed to. france is one of the only countries in the european union to make age a condition for access to the minimum income. thousands of young french people are condemned to start their lives in poverty because they are discriminated against in their access to the rsa. a directive can fix that. it is not just a recommendation to the member states, it is a directive. a binding directive, with a non-discrimination clause, would oblige france to open access to the rsa to those under 25. commissioner, give me a directive. show the young french people that they can count on you, that they can count on the european union.
member of the commission. – we addressed this issue with one of the article 122 proposals – that solar rooftops should be granted grid access in a very short time frame, but of course, temporary emergency measures will expire. that is the reason why we have to address this issue also in ordinary legislation. now, the question was, how long will it take in my home country? and i think that i come from a country where it is relatively fast due to the fact that our grid is digitalized and that allows distribution system operators to accommodate more renewables. so digitalisation is key. this is one of the challenges that many bigger member states will face. but we will, from our side, promote that, and we will also advise member states to use some of the recovery funds specifically to strengthen the grid, because this seems to be the next bottleneck after the permitting procedures.
dear commissioner, we should remain committed to our climate goals and also to the principles of the free market and competition. this past year and a half, when we have been living under extraordinary circumstances – with high prices of energy because of the pandemic, and then, of course, because of the market manipulation by russia, and then because of the aggression of russia against ukraine – show us that we need to have instruments to intervene when there is clearly market manipulation and or high volatility. i welcome the proposal that will be released today on emd, and therefore some measures will have to be considered to better manage vulnerabilities and price volatilities. in your opinion, will emd strike a balance between building a market, incentivising investments and low carbon solutions on one hand, and reducing volatility on the other hand?
member of the commission. – thank you cristian. and first of all, thank you for the very good cooperation that we do have with the committee. we just had a chance to discuss last week the results of the repowereu proposal that was presented a year ago. and next week we will discuss electricity market design and i do hope that parliament will treat electricity market design as a priority file because we don’t have time to waste. from my perspective, i believe that the commission has proposed some very effective provisions to reduce the weight of gas and electricity prices. one of them that should make the difference is that we propose a peak shaving mechanism to reduce demand at times in which gas is needed to cover it. and we already saw that our article 122 proposal that addressed electricity price peak hours consumption allowed us to cut gas consumption. of course, the other important part of this proposal is to empower the consumers to allow them to opt for different pricing contracts, even one designed for their domestic consumption, and another flexible contracting scheme, for example, to charge their electric vehicle. so in this proposal, there are several very practical provisions that will help our consumers already in a very short time frame. but the only lasting solution, the only way how we can actually decrease our electricity prices in a sustainable way is to accelerate renewables. and there are some measures that we have to strengthen and we will address these measures exactly with our electricity market design this time.
commissioner, you mentioned renewables and you also mentioned the debate last week in itre. thank you for that, and for the very good cooperation with the itre committee, which i chair. you remember that we discussed a lot, and maybe the main obstacle is not the lack of investment, not the lack of interest, but the permitting and the bureaucracy in many of the eu member states. besides what we are doing in terms of updating the legislation, do you intend also to put political pressure on member states to move a little bit faster with permitting for renewables?
member of the commission. – i think that you can help us in this regard because there is still ongoing discussion and ongoing dialogue on the renewables directive. if our targets will be as ambitious as the commission proposed for 2030, that also means that member states have to address these bottlenecks – because 2030 is not so far away anymore. and if we continue business as usual, then many offshore wind projects, for example, that are in the pipeline will not materialise by the time they are needed. we will consult member states and help them. i will give you as an example the offshore wind developments: how to strengthen the sea basins approach because it makes offshore projects more cost effective if member states will not make the planning and permitting only for radial connections, but they will cooperate with their neighbours and allow wind farms to be connected to several markets. and of course, since we finalised our ten-e trilogues, the commission can also support financially the necessary grid developments that will connect big offshore wind farms to the mainland. that also helps project developers to fast track these investments. so my plea to parliament: please prioritize also the fit for 55 files that remain open and help us to conclude this ambitious agreement.
mr president, energy security is an important pillar in achieving our objective as the european union of strategic autonomy. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the energy efficiency of the european union. but that means we have also established a strict framework of sanctions. how can we get rid of such authoritarian regimes, and not just putin? and i await your answer to whether the erdogan regime today serves our interests or putin's interests. my second question: the gas fields in the eastern mediterranean are of strategic importance both for the transition and for the reduction in consumer prices to which you referred earlier. do you feel that there is such a priority today and how do you justify it? with concrete examples.
i would like to thank mr mavrides. i would point out that this is a question time and not a question time. so we should limit ourselves to one question at a time, and also in demand you should focus on the question that was asked first. the commissioner is, of course, free to reply, but the replies will then place a corresponding burden on the timetable.
member of the commission. – earlier i was mentioning that last year was a very challenging year. actually, there was a question of our survival because if one major supplier will disappear – and russia was a single biggest supplier who decided to cut their gas deliveries very rapidly – then markets will face difficulties. since the war started, we have addressed this challenge with many different legal proposals, but also by addressing our vulnerabilities, for example, giving a specific strategic position to underground gas storage. because underground gas storage in europe gives us assurance that no unexpected development against, for example, existing gas pipelines can impact us, or impact is limited. when we announced that we will replace two thirds of russian gas by the end of 2023, then we were also very clear that we will not replace these 90 billion m³ of gas only with alternative gas suppliers. we were very successful. we attracted additional lng shipments and trusted, reliable partners who were connected with europe via pipeline – like norway, algeria, azerbaijan, who uses a pipeline via turkey – were able to increase shipments. this was accompanied by energy savings measures and by accelerating our renewables deployment. this is our strategy for years to come. we will replace a significant part of lost russian gas volumes by replacing gas in power generation with renewables, by replacing gas in the building sector with heat pumps, and by simply prioritising energy savings where we can. so, wrapped up in short, we will never end up in a situation where we are so dependent on one single supplier. and by diversifying our energy sources, we will also take care of our security of supply and, in a broader context, our independence.
my question will be very simple. i would expect you to answer whether the authoritarian erdogan regime has aligned itself with our policies regarding energy security. it's a very simple question, and i expect a simple answer. if you don't have an answer, tell us. but i expect an answer and nothing else.
member of the commission. – me and my services we do have several energy dialogues with important energy partners, but not with turkey because we don’t have a council mandate for that. so we don’t have energy dialogue with turkey.
mr president, commissioner, we are here in a debate on the energy security of the union and therefore also, in the background, on the security of the european union. but there is a blind spot in the policy being pursued today, and that is the uranium from russia. imports of natural uranium reached 2 358 tonnes in 2021, amounting to approximately €210 million, not including the €234 million sent to kazakhstan, where uranium is mined by the russian company rosatom. for france, my country of origin, almost two thirds of the enriched uranium comes from russia and 43% from kazakhstan and uzbekistan, where rosatom or its subsidiaries also operate. in addition, some ten tons of waste are sent to siberia, russia, every year. so, i ask you this question. there is a real push for nuclear energy in european legislation today. we've seen it with taxonomy, we've seen it with the gas package. this is evident in the current discussions on hydrogen and in the directive on the reform of the energy market. it may even be seen emerging in the context of renewable energy or in projects such as barmar, a true trojan horse for nuclear energy. commissioner, my question is simple: is there not a contradiction here? and how can we answer this question of energy security in the context in which we find ourselves?
member of the commission. – this is true that five of our member states do still use nuclear fuel that is russian-designed. and we have assisted them to put forward a clear timetable for when, and with the help of alternative suppliers, they can diversify away from russian-designed fuel. there are good examples that some of the nuclear installations that were previously using fuel from russia have been able to replace it. and several companies have already notified us that they have started talks with alternative suppliers such as westinghouse. to do so, my services will provide all the necessary assistance so that certification procedures to allow them to use alternative fuel will be smooth. and i think that this is a key that, also in the future, the nuclear power plants should be able to rely on several suppliers, not only the single supplier. most probably you have heard that our ukrainian partners have requested us also to address the dependence on russian nuclear fuel. and we have. we have addressed this issue as a priority concern of ours. right now, these five member states, they do have sufficient fuel supply in their storage. but, as i was mentioning, in the coming months, they have to present their plans on how they will diversify away from russian supply.
you are answering me, commissioner, on the diversification of the supply of natural and enriched uranium. you do not address the waste issue, and there is also another threat to energy security in relation to nuclear, which is the water issue. nuclear power requires 150 to 180 liters of water to produce one megawatt-hour of electricity. and it only takes one brief heat wave to make up to five gigawatt hours of nuclear power unavailable, or 8% of the french power plant, which is the one that supplies the rest of europe, not to mention, of course, that it endangers the water supply for agriculture or simply for human consumption. the question of security is therefore not over, exhausted, once the question of the diversification of uranium resources has been settled. i therefore put the question to you again: how can we secure energy supplies and energy production in the european union in the context of an energy model based on nuclear energy?
mr president, this is so sad that it almost seems ironic. ironically, you might think, "well, there you go. israel is finally integrating into the middle east, as its parliamentary majority is only interested in reproducing the political model of the regimes around it. but no! the irony is unfortunately not there, because this state which our union supports because it is the only democracy in the region, could today take the path of illiberal democracies, those where people continue to vote while the counter powers are attacked and destroyed. the situation is so dire that two out of three israelis, right and left, are fighting for the survival of their democracy. so, as everywhere, we must support the rule of law, say where we stand and not hesitate, if necessary, to use all our weapons, political of course, but also economic.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, i think today’s debate shows our continued interest and support for moldova on its eu path. we commend the strong commitment of the moldovan government to continue delivering on its ambitious reform agenda despite all the challenges and overlapping crises triggered by russia’s war in ukraine. it is important not to lose focus on key reforms. moldovan citizens expect progress, especially in the areas of the rule of law, justice and corruption. these reforms are equally important for strengthening moldova’s resilience. it is equally important, therefore, also to recover all the funds that have been lost in the banking crisis. and to find all the funds back that have been illegally put into private hands. i would therefore like to encourage you to pass the message on the need to continue reforms to your moldovan counterparts during the upcoming eu—moldova parliamentary association committee, which is scheduled for next week. we stand in full solidarity with moldova. anything that will improve moldova’s security will also improve our own security. moldova belongs to the european family and we stand ready to continue supporting it on its eu path.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at one of the following sittings. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. moldovans have heard about coups more than once. for a small country torn in two by a river, and for over 30 years living in the psychic terror of a possible war by the very so-called "russian peacekeepers" abusively stationed on its territory, for a country like this, words like "coup d'état" are not the end of the world. but he takes them seriously. and so are we. the eu must stand by them. i support the opening of accession negotiations with chisinau this year. in addition, we must continue to support them, both financially and technically. i welcome the organisation of the second european political community meeting in chisinau in june this year and at the same time support the european commission's proposal to increase macro-financial assistance to the republic of moldova by eur 145 million. in this way, the total amount allocated to the republic of moldova for macro-financial assistance will reach eur 295 million, and gradually, with european support and reforms at home, moldova will succeed in no longer holding the title of the poorest european country.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr pedro silva pereira, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the implementation report on the treaty on the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the eu (2020/2202 (ini)) (a9-0052/2023) and the commission communication on the windsor regulation (2023/2596 (rsp)).
rapporteur. – mr president, vice-president maroš šefčovič, dear colleagues, time flies. believe it or not, almost seven years have passed since the brexit referendum and more than three years have gone since the entry into force of the withdrawal agreement. as rapporteur for the implementation of the brexit agreement, i am glad to say that, fortunately, we are here not only to assess what happened in the last three years, where the story to tell is not always pleasant, but also to look into the future of the eu-uk relations in light of the recently announced windsor framework, a new joint understanding about the terms for a more flexible but also more effective implementation of the northern ireland protocol. this development is of utmost importance. the uk’s continuous breach of its agreed legal commitments under the protocol was by far the most serious issue in the implementation of the withdrawal agreement. the lack of customs checks in the irish sea and the insufficient sharing of customs data with the eu obviously endangered the integrity of the eu single market. it’s worth recalling that the northern ireland protocol was the agreed solution to prevent a physical border on the island of ireland so that the good friday agreement is fully safeguarded while protecting the integrity of the eu single market. a dialogue on a flexible but effective implementation of the protocol, as many times suggested by the european commission, was always the right thing to do, not unilateral actions. besides the new customs data sharing arrangements, the key element of the windsor framework is a distinction between a green lane in the irish sea with no border controls for goods entering northern ireland for final consumption there in northern ireland and the red lane with eu customs and sanitary and phytosanitary procedures for those goods entering northern ireland but at risk of entering the eu single market. together with the so-called ‘stormont break’, allowing for members of the northern ireland assembly to stop in exceptional circumstances future regulatory divergences introduced by the eu. this joint understanding gives us reasons to believe that an important turn of a page can happen in the eu-uk relations. moreover, we hope to see power-sharing returning to northern ireland so that we can all properly celebrate the 25 years of the good friday agreement. therefore, as rapporteur for the implementation of the withdrawal agreement, i propose to the european parliament that we warmly welcome the announced windsor framework and, to that effect, i table a few amendments updating the report in respect of this important development. furthermore, i would like to warmly congratulate vice president maroš šefčovič and all his team for this remarkable political achievement. one last word on citizens’ rights, a top priority for this parliament. we welcome the uk establishment of the eu settlement scheme, under which 7 million european citizens have asked for the recognition of their residence rights. 55% of those got the permanent settled status. but however, we note that 39% of the applicants – about 2.7 million – only got the so-called ‘pre-settled status’. so we will monitor the situation to ensure that they get the permanent status as soon as they fulfil the legal requirements. and, finally, we still ask the british government to provide a document serving as physical proof of residence rights so people don’t have to face practical difficulties in their daily life. so improvements are still needed for sure, but i believe that hope should be the right tone for today’s debate.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. – mr president, into the breach comes kelly. i welcome the political agreement on the windsor framework and commend particularly vice—president šefčovič and his team on achieving this result, which is the product of much effort and patience. the new arrangements address the real—life concerns of citizens and businesses in northern ireland, while also ensuring that the eu single market is protected through a number of safeguards. it is a balanced agreement, grounded on an understanding of trust between the eu and the uk – trust which i hope we can continue to build on as we move forward. i support, in particular, the efforts made by the commission to give northern irish politicians and stakeholders a voice in the governance of the protocol, especially through the stormont brake. this is an important and welcome development. now the focus turns to making this agreement a reality. in the parliament here, i think we will take the necessary steps to implement the new arrangements as swiftly and as effectively as possible. but we will also need political will and responsible leadership, especially from the dup, in order to make the agreement effective. i hope that can be achieved. as we approach the 25th anniversary of the good friday agreement, i sincerely hope to see the windsor framework implemented and to return to power—sharing in northern ireland. stability and certainty will allow citizens and businesses to avail of the economic opportunities that the new agreement provides for northern ireland, and ensure that the next 25 years will be as much about prosperity as the last 25 years was about peace. it is time that we put these long and drawn—out discussions on the protocol behind us. i hope now that we can move forward with a constructive and forward—looking eu-uk relationship. and again, thanks to all involved and especially, once again, commissioner šefčovič, who was outstanding all through this process.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first and foremost, thank you for your invitation to this joint debate on the implementation of the withdrawal agreement and the recent developments around the protocol on ireland and northern ireland. i very much welcome the opportunity to discuss the important progress made in the relationship between the eu and the uk. i believe that this is very well captured in the report and in particular the amendments reflecting the recent important progress in our relationship that mr pedro silva pereira put forward today. and i want to thank him not only for this timely report, but also for our excellent cooperation over the years. and my gratitude and thanks goes to all honourable members in the uk coordination group and the many bilateral meetings we have had, i would say with almost everyone in the room, when we’ve been discussing this very important relationship with the united kingdom. honourable members, the united kingdom, as we discussed in our previous meetings, is an important partner and a close political ally for the eu, with our excellent cooperation in support of our ukrainian friends being a testimony to that. in our discussions, protecting the rights of citizens after brexit was of the utmost importance and i was reminded of that by the discussions we had, be it in ukcg or in our bilateral meetings. and i really would like to reassure all honourable members that it remains a priority for us to ensure that beneficiaries of the withdrawal agreement continue to enjoy the same rights and benefits. but we also knew it was vital not only to fix the problems of today, but to set our bilateral relationship down the right path to overcome the issues of tomorrow. and for that, we needed to find solutions to the challenges that have emerged in the implementation of the protocol over the past two years. in recent months, we have had intensive talks with our uk counterparts in order to find these solutions, solutions for real-life concerns around the operation of the protocol affecting people and businesses on the ground. president von der leyen and prime minister sunak have been in regular touch throughout the process. i have also remained in regular and close contact with my counterpart, uk foreign secretary james cleverly, but also the state secretary responsible for northern ireland, chris heaton-harris, and the commission and uk government teams spared no efforts to find joint solutions and i can tell you that they’ve been working very, very hard. i am delighted to say that this hard work, determination and political will has delivered results. as you know, on 27 february, a new way forward – the windsor framework – was announced by president von der leyen and prime minister sunak. a way forward that consists of joint solutions that will address in a definitive manner the concerns and challenges we have experienced over the last two years. a way forward that protects the legitimate interests of both the eu and the uk. a way forward that addresses all areas concerned – food, medicines, customs, vat and excise, state aid, tariff rate quotas, governance and stakeholders’ engagement. these solutions respond to the concrete needs of people and businesses in northern ireland, but they also have been carefully crafted so as to ensure that the eu single market is protected. in particular, the role of the european court of justice has not changed. it remains the sole and final arbiter of eu law. but there is now a strong political commitment to solve future challenges together before they turn into disputes. vitally, the time of unilateral action is behind us. we welcome the public commitment from the uk government that the northern ireland protocol bill is stopped from proceeding in the uk parliament and will thus fall. the windsor framework allows us to turn the page and work with mutual trust on fully implementing our agreements because the solutions we have found together are co-owned and are therefore set to be fully implemented by both sides. honourable members, the windsor framework is an important achievement for both the uk and the eu. its implementation is the key. on our side, we know that we can count on the support of this house to deliver on important legislative proposals that are a key part of the joint solutions. your support, as always, will be crucial, and i know that, thanks to our collective work, we can look to the future with confidence. as mr seán kelly underlined, next month will see the celebration of the 21st anniversary of the good friday belfast agreement. our work on the windsor framework will allow us to continue to protect the hard-earned peace gains emanating from that momentous accord. the framework is there to benefit people in northern ireland and support all communities celebrating peace on the island of ireland. and with the last 25 years being about peace, the next 25 years should be about peace and prosperity.
the committee on petitions' opinion was drawn up by mr. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: any eu citizen resident in the united kingdom has the right to petition the european parliament under article 227 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. citizens of the united kingdom who reside in the european union also retain the right to petition parliament. parliament's committee on petitions received 262 petitions relating to brexit and 25 relating to alleged breaches of the withdrawal agreement. what problems have been revealed here? on the one hand, the requirements of the eu settlement scheme; the fact that eu citizens have to make a second application to the scheme to obtain indefinite leave to remain in the uk is problematic and puts citizens at greater risk if they are unable to exercise their right of residence within the statutory time limits. the united kingdom has withdrawn from the erasmus+ programme and has decided not to participate as a third partner country in the new erasmus+ programme 2021-2027, which would be to the detriment of research, study, training and exchanges for young people. it would be a good thing if the uk could be allowed to participate in eu programmes for the benefit of young people in the uk and the eu in exchange for the necessary financial commitments. so there is still work to be done! let us tackle it, let us be optimistic and let us solve the problems in the interests of the people.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, vice—president šefčovič, colleagues, i agree with you, vice—president, we are at the beginning of a new chapter in the eu—uk relations, this time hopefully based on trust. with the windsor framework, we have a set of practical solutions to the implementation of the northern ireland protocol. the deal will lower the cost of doing business and settle the flow of goods from great britain into northern ireland without breaching eu single market rules. it strikes a careful balance between facilitations for the uk and effective safeguards for the eu single market. it brings the northern irish economic, political and civil society stakeholders into the framework. now we must set in stone this agreement in principle as soon as possible, and the commission urgently needs the mandate to adopt the framework at the next eu-uk joint committee meeting. i hope that the agreement will open the path to solving other pending issues and that the northern ireland protocol bill will be promptly and fully withdrawn, as promised by the uk government. it is noteworthy that the windsor framework does not address citizens’ rights, which are subject to the withdrawal agreement and are covered by pedro silva pereira’s implementation report. as of december 2022, under the settlement scheme, 181 000 eu citizens were still waiting on a decision on their pre-settled status, most of them for more than six months, uncertain about their immigration status and the reunification of their families. it is positive to hear that the uk home office will not appeal the uk high court’s december 2022 ruling, according to which the home office had wrongly interpreted the withdrawal agreement. i hope the home office will take all the necessary steps to swiftly apply the ruling, communicate it effectively to eu citizens and not deprive citizens of their rights under the withdrawal agreement. finally, i hope that the implementation of the uk’s eu retained law bill will not undermine the uk’s obligations under the withdrawal agreement, including the protocol, and the tca not damage the enforcement mechanism.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, colleagues, first off, congratulations, commissioner šefčovič, for an agreement that fully respects the red lines set out by our parliament. and i appreciate that mr sunak also seems to have broken with the past. for seven long years, his tory predecessors milked brexit for cynical political purposes to the very last drop, and floating more illegal ‘braverplans’ won’t help them now. suffice to say that with the un refugee convention in hand, the illegal migration bill truly is illegal. and this is exactly why the tories will be trashed in the polls. uk citizens are sick and tired of this kind of fabricated outrage. they want leadership, and i sincerely hope that mr sunak will show such leadership by scrapping also the retained eu law bill in its current form. to be very clear, literally nobody in brussels or in the rest of europe wants a trade war, and i very much hope the same goes for london. but taking an axe to workers’ rights, environmental standards and social protection risks ripping out the very heart of our trade and cooperation agreement. to the people of northern ireland. i want to congratulate them on a very fair agreement. maturity and flexibility led to this deal on both sides, and what was delivered is crystal clear evidence that good-faith negotiation always beats boris bluster. the dup should understand this is the best deal you will ever get, and i urge you to take responsibility, support the windsor framework and return to stormont so we can jump-start our new relationship as partners, as friends to ensure prosperity and security in europe for all our citizens.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, mr maroš, the british prime minister, mr rishi sunak, has enthusiastically welcomed the windsor political agreement on northern ireland. i understand that, although his enthusiasm may be a little premature. the agreement still needs the support of the british parliament and our own votes on a number of important points. but i do understand rishi sunak, because this deal is likely to end years of uncertainty for the people of northern ireland since brexit, even though a majority of that population voted to remain in the european union. this agreement goes as far as we can go. it even goes to great lengths to limit the negative consequences of brexit for the people of northern ireland. we can understand why rishi sunak is happy. the british prime minister was enthusiastic about the fact that northern ireland had the chance to gain access to both the british market and the european single market. rishi sunak is right, but behind his smile, there's a terrible confession. what he is boasting about as an extraordinary opportunity is what the whole of the united kingdom had when it was a member of the european union. that's what he lost when he left her.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, this windsor framework is good news. it is good news for the people in northern ireland. it is good news for the people in the whole of the uk and it is good news for the people in the european union. and it shines a light on the value of trustful cooperation, something that was badly missing from the negotiations between the eu and the uk, at least from some people in the past. and in the aftermath of the announcement of the agreement, rishi sunak actually praised the unique position of northern ireland being part of the uk’s and the eu’s market. and i can only congratulate him for the clarity and insightfulness of his words, because yes, indeed, being part of the eu single market makes you strong. it means more prosperity, it means less red tape and it means more freedom. and, if you ask me, if we are being honest, the whole of the uk should actually benefit from these advantages and not only northern ireland. colleagues, in a world where we see aggressive autocrats trying to take more power, it is important that democracies work together, and this agreement is a step into the right direction for that.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, commissioner šefčovič, colleagues, first we want to welcome this report and to thank pedro for all his work. in all the arguments about checks and controls in the irish sea, developments about human rights have got very little attention. i'm very pleased that the report stresses the importance of article 2 on the non-diminution of rights. the language of hostility to human rights by british government ministers is extremely unhelpful. be clear, the european convention on human rights is the foundation of the good friday agreement. if it does come to pass that britain leaves the convention, they will have to put in place a system whereby those rights continue to apply in the north of ireland. i also welcome recognition of the importance of engagement with the belfast assembly. the application of parts of eu law in the north of ireland means that their elected representatives have an important role to play in shaping laws that apply to them. the european parliament has an important role in engaging in dialogue with assembly members and other stakeholders in the north. we must formalise a direct relationship between this parliament and the assembly. in all the discussions about brexit and implementation of the protocol, our priority has been to uphold the good friday agreement. the good friday agreement is the constitutional framework of the north of ireland. it gives the same legitimacy to the idea of a united ireland as it does to the continuation of the link with britain. the future constitutional status of ireland is for the people of ireland, north and south, to decide. the good friday agreement has brought 25 years of peace and progress. there was never any reason to link the restoration of the institutions to the irish protocol. now that an implementation agreement has been reached in windsor, there is an onus on the british government to move the dup in the coming weeks, so to restore the assembly and executive without delay. the people of the north of ireland deserve no less.
mr president, first of all, thank you, commissioner, for your very constructive words. the united kingdom did not leave europe by brexit, but only the european union. ‘europeanness’ is not measured by membership in an organisation, but by respecting national self-determination, culture, history and constitutional tradition – a field in which the united kingdom has always excelled. further to that, it was not the uk who could not keep their eu membership. the eu was unable to keep a powerful country that remained realistic compared to federalist ideas. we are sad that we lost the uk as a member state, but we respect the democratic decision of its people. now the uk is a natural ally of the european union and of the european nation states. the eu should conduct a pragmatic and respectful dialogue towards the uk that is finally worthy of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, over the past two years of relations between the united kingdom and the european union were shaped by challenges that have indeed emerged in the implementation of the protocol on ireland and northern ireland. particularly at a time of serious geopolitical challenges, a stable and trustful cooperation is crucial. for this reason, like many other colleagues, i welcome the windsor framework that was announced on 27 february. this is a welcome and long-awaited step in the right direction which should allow us to open a new chapter in our relationship. let me congratulate commission president ursula von der leyen and uk prime minister rishi sunak. the agreement shows that practical and shared solutions to the challenges in the implementation of the protocol on ireland and northern ireland can be found. it highlights that joint efforts to find bilateral solutions to mitigate the consequences of brexit can ensure stability and predictability for people and businesses in northern ireland, while at the same time maintaining the integrity of our eu single market. the windsor framework also reflects the eu’s long-standing commitment to protect the belfast good friday agreement in all its parts. the timely implementation of the solutions identified in the windsor framework is key now. as the european parliament, we will deliver on the legislative procedures as quickly as possible. let me also thank vice-president maroš šefčovič and his team for the great work and for the excellent cooperation with parliament. you can count on our continued support.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues. first of all, congratulations to commissioner šefčovič and his team and to all of the interlocutors on achieving the windsor framework. it’s a great breakthrough. i think the next stage is patience, unfortunately, and more patience. we’ve demonstrated – well, you’ve demonstrated – towering patience, i have to say, in the face of very difficult interlocutors from time to time. but we need more patience so that the political participants in northern ireland can take the time to have the discussions necessary in order to fully understand and clarify the implications of this new framework that is going to create a constitutional architecture in northern ireland that is new. so i think we should demonstrate patience – that’s really important. there is only one windsor framework, but there’s already a number of interpretations of the windsor framework. so one of the things that i will be doing in the next few months is to bring mlas to brussels and strasbourg, under the heading of common understandings, so that we can proceed from a position of strength to create a prosperous future for northern ireland.
madam president, brexit was a bad decision. it is having a negative impact on the european union, just as it is having a negative impact on the united kingdom. and within the united kingdom, scotland, wales and northern ireland are suffering the most severe consequences of this decision. i would remind you that scotland and northern ireland voted overwhelmingly against brexit and are suffering the consequences against their will. in the face of this negative situation, the withdrawal agreement and the trade cooperation agreement as negotiated are the best safeguards to mitigate the consequences. under the leadership of former prime minister boris johnson, the united kingdom had embarked on a very negative path. the draft law on the interpretation of the past agreements, which was tabled unilaterally by the british government, was a very bad signal. the windsor agreement, which has just been negotiated, provides for the withdrawal of this bill which distorted the northern ireland protocol. this was absolutely necessary to establish mutual trust in the negotiations. the positive developments since the new prime minister, rishi sunak, took office make it possible, if confirmed, to resume the dialogue and to take account of ireland's interests in a lasting way. the report by our colleague, mr pedro silva pereira, has followed these developments closely. the final text which our group will be voting on tomorrow sets out the issues clearly. moving forward, rebuilding lasting trust with british leadership. and vigilance, because whether we like it or not, the relationship between the european union and the united kingdom has changed forever since brexit.
the windsor framework is a new chapter in the eu's relations with the united kingdom. the green line will allow goods to move freely across the irish sea and we will avoid a hard border. northern ireland can go back to taxing the same as the rest of the united kingdom and we will no longer see reports of empty shelves. the question that arises is why it's taken so long. why did the eu agree to a deal that von der leyen said would never be possible? it shows that even the most ardent eu federalists have finally accepted the outcome of the 2016 referendum. the uk is our ally, not a rebellious province. because who would object to a better relationship with our nearest neighbour and most important trading partner? let this be the start of a deep cooperation with the united kingdom, from defence procurement and scientific research to equivalence in financial services. a good neighbor is better than a distant friend.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the right of peoples to self-determination is a fundamental right. we cannot, without contradiction, as the european union has done, defend the principle of this while denying the british people the benefits of it. the british people decided in 2016 by referendum to leave the european union. it is his sovereign choice that must be respected. i regret that, like the commission, the european parliament has not stopped stigmatising the united kingdom since then, as it still does in the silva pereira report. paragraph two of this report states, for example, with a certain acrimony that, i quote: 'brexit has proved to be detrimental to all parties concerned and even more so to the united kingdom'. i do not think that the european parliament has to judge what is good or bad for this country. this is the business of the british people. let's just be positive and move on. what matters is whether the 2020 withdrawal agreement has been properly implemented. the pessimism of the report seems to me to be misplaced for two reasons. first, because it deliberately emphasizes the difficulties of implementation rather than the successes. the difficulties of implementation were inevitable. it was not to be expected that in two years we would be able to solve all the problems generated by such a complex withdrawal agreement. what matters is that the successes are undeniable. the united kingdom, for example, has indeed introduced permanent residence for certain union nationals, as it had promised. another example of success is that the independent monitoring authority is functioning and has even taken the matter to the british courts, which have condemned the uk government for misapplication of the agreement. the second reason why the report's pessimism is misplaced is because of the windsor framework, which has just refuted its gloomy analyses of northern ireland. this win-win agreement preserves the union's common market while addressing the legitimate concerns of the united kingdom in two ways. firstly, by creating green corridors which will enable it to export goods from britain to northern ireland only, with reduced red tape. secondly, by introducing an emergency brake which would allow the british government, at the request of the belfast parliament, to prevent the application in northern ireland of certain new provisions of the union. the only point which seems to me to be still problematic is the jurisdiction of the court of justice of the union, which is not well accepted by the united kingdom and which would probably be better replaced by a specialised arbitration court for northern ireland.
madam president, it’s very strange, after so many years being a student in the uk and after erasmus also, to discuss this famous agreement that has been reached, the windsor agreement. well done, commissioner šefčovič, to you and your team, and i hope that we will continue on this path with the other files that we have on microstates, because everyone is looking to what we are doing with the uk. after so many years, it’s quite sad that we are also discussing the peace agreement, the good friday agreement, and well done to all those who contributed so that we no longer have to fear a hard border. i lived in london during the years when this instability caused many fears, and i think this is the greatest achievement that president von der leyen has achieved with prime minister rishi sunak. this is something that we should praise at the european parliament after the sad fact that the uk has left us. so, on behalf of the cult committee, we will be doing and assessing the damage that has left on all those who are not privileged and who were beneficiaries of erasmus exchanges. and we need to build bridges in the future with the uk, with their students and also with our young people. these damages in the future can be enormous if we don’t return to erasmus. that’s something to be discussed in the future.
madam president, the famous movie belfast and the music of van morrison is really giving a wonderful impression of feeling about the situation in northern ireland. you know from this movie, but also from the discussion we had so far, how important it is to de-escalate. thanks a lot, maroš, for de-escalating, for your patience, for engagement, because a trade war is really not in the interest of anybody. van morrison is singing, ‘don’t look back to the days of yesterday. you cannot live in the past.’ i hope that this agreement is really a door open more for the future. we will have the revision of the tca in 2025. we will discuss the erasmus accession of the united kingdom. we have to discuss the financial services, the fish agreement and so on. perhaps it’s really now a better way for the future, for better cooperation between the eu and the united kingdom. van morrison is singing at the beginning of the movie, ‘coming down to joy.’ perhaps we can sing along with him one day.
madam president, all the commitments made must be kept, pacta sunt servanda. in these respects, mr vice-president of the european commission, we have been very disappointed by our friends across the channel. thanks to the windsor agreement, we can turn the page without tearing it. did you say way forward? i'm all right. this is very good news, especially for british citizens, who are suffering the full negative effects of brexit. one point of attention, though. this must also be good news for the greatest european achievement, the single market. the windsor agreement, through what is known as the stormont brake, gives 30 members of the northern ireland assembly the opportunity to oppose the application of european law in their province. this is an exceptional procedure modelled on the 1998 peace agreement and therefore cannot set any precedent in the rest of the single market. this is another very concrete proof of our willingness to establish a new relationship with our british friends, which must always be based on mutual trust.
madam president, i would like to begin by expressing my group's and my own satisfaction with the agreement reached. thank you, vice-president šefčovič, for achieving a path of understanding, for delivering on what was agreed and for overcoming the tensions and challenges arising from the implementation of the northern ireland protocol. we hope that the great history of cooperation between the united kingdom and the rest of europe will not be cut short again and will continue into the future. once the initial political deadlock is over, we must focus on maintaining regulatory consistency, which is vital to the strength of the european and british single market. we know that brexit and the breach of commitments have not benefited the british economy and politics, which have suffered great deterioration and discredit, nor the citizens, who have suffered the loss of jobs and the shortage of products, phenomena accentuated by covid and war. all of them must be considered in order to continue to develop the good relationship, coordination and cooperation that the windsor framework aims to achieve. and in this connection, i ask you, mr vice-president, if possible, to specify the new emergency mechanism of the stormont brake. the united kingdom and the european union are allies and friends, and in these times this is very valuable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i also greet and thank vice-president maroš šefčovič. it is an honour to speak for the first time in this house, from this place, the home of all european citizens. i would like to remind you of the importance of defending our most precious asset, being part of the european project, the only guarantee of well-being and prosperity for future generations. the sad parable of brexit teaches us how serious and negative the consequences of an irresponsible policy based on fake news and an anti-european ideology can be. the recent windsor agreements on trade rules in northern ireland relaunch bilateral relations after years of negative atmosphere which i myself experienced as a diplomat of the european union in london. a new page is being opened, but we must remain vigilant both to the rights of european citizens in the uk and to legislative developments such as the retained eu law which risks creating new divergent rules and trade barriers. ladies and gentlemen, i will be doing my part as a member of the new eu-uk parliamentary assembly. let us work together to foster dialogue and build bridges in a perspective we want to continue to dream of as a whole.
madam president, commissioner, the implementation report is both an assessment of the way in which both the united kingdom and the european union have dealt with their separation, and a demonstration of the absurdity of a situation in which we have been manipulated by the populists. in short, the report confirms the win-win situation created by brexit. the european parliament was right from the start to opt for a strategy of damage reduction. nevertheless, the absurdity reaches its climax when european citizens who cannot present a work visa to the authorities are locked up in detention centres. what a regression! at this stage, there are no reports of similar behaviour on the part of the european union. i hope that this will continue for years to come. another evidence of the regression is the disruption of supply chains. at a time when the west should be showing solidarity, we are more busy bridging the gaps than focusing on common challenges. a final word on the windsor framework, negotiated after the adoption of our report by afco. this agreement certainly takes account of the imperatives of realpolitik. the stormont brake, however, should remain an absolute exception, and should in no way create a precedent which could contaminate the discussions on future agreements.
madam president, 20 years ago, the good friday agreement was signed. this major step will be commemorated with the importance it deserves. sadly, for more than a year now, the assembly in northern ireland has not been sitting. in its absence, citizens in northern ireland have struggled to access health care and financial support for energy bills. polling shows that those in favour of restoring the assembly in northern ireland and those who support the windsor framework are young people and women. but because of the institutions not fully functioning, young people and women are also among those seriously affected by the lack of access to basic care and by inflated energy prices. what matters most to people in northern ireland, as everywhere else in europe, is everyday issues. as often is the case, when identity politics are instrumentalized and take up all the political space, it comes at the cost of people's needs. this is not only about the relationship between the eu and the uk. we also must consider the rights of citizens in northern ireland. the eu has a responsibility to protect the good friday agreement, to prioritize the rights of citizens and to contribute to maintaining peace and democracy on the island of ireland.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the armenian people are facing an existential threat today. tonight marks 92 days, 92 days that the armenians of nagorno-karabakh have to live without being able to leave their enclave, deprived of everything, deprived of food, of supplies, of gas to heat themselves, deprived of education for their children. 92 days the world has been silent. and europe in particular. of course, things have improved with the work that preceded this report. we firmly condemn, and parliament says so clearly, this existential threat organized by azerbaijan a century after a genocide which the azeri dictator continues to deny, a century after a genocide, it is time for europe to stand by the armenian people. the european mission, as you said, commissioner, sent to protect armenia's borders, to ensure that they are no longer the object of these repeated violations and murderous attacks, is also a sign that europe is aware of its responsibility. but we have to go further. it's not all done. and it is time to finally punish the azeri regime for these crimes against international law and basic human rights. my dear colleagues, when we say this, we are sometimes accused of defending armenia, of defending one side against another. but we are not defending armenia, we are defending justice, we are defending the principles of international law, we are defending the security of europe itself. because if those principles are violated, then we are all in danger. we are not defending armenia, but armenia is defending everything we stand for, and we owe it our support, and it is time to give it our support.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, for more than 90 days azerbaijan has been blocking access to nagorno-karabakh, cutting off 120,000 people from the world. the international court of justice ordered azerbaijan to end the blockade. he didn't do any of that. for seven months, baku's troops have occupied armenian lands. the european union observation mission has deployed, but the armenian villagers are worried. and yet, the government in yerevan has proposed a peace plan to the president of azerbaijan, who has responded with new threats. since 1915, turkey has refused to recognize the armenian genocide. moreover, the regime in ankara is helping the regime in baku. and yet, from the first days after the terrible earthquake in turkey, armenia sent aid. since 2020, russia is supposed to help armenia and yet it does nothing. no doubt, the democratic choice of armenia is not to moscow's liking. to talk about armenia is to talk too often about what threatens it. we should also talk about his courage. we should speak less and do more to help a country that looks to us and needs us.
madam president, commissioner, thank you for this important part-session. the armenians are worried. in this parliament, which is massively mobilized in favour of ukraine, the military rhetoric of azerbaijan is unbearable. it is unbearable because armenia is looking towards europe. the cultural, social and historical links with europe are important. at the same time, we must reject all hypocrisy. i hear a lot about the gas from azerbaijan. we are not under any illusions. the gas of azerbaijan is russian gas. and the relations that some european countries want to develop with azerbaijan, it's a great way to circumvent the sanctions against russia. let us not delude ourselves, either, that if the european union recognizes it, then major countries of the world such as britain do not recognize the armenian genocide. it is now urgent to consider that the temptation and the desire of azerbaijan to create a corridor in syunik with turkey is a geopolitical threat to europe. we must strengthen our observer corps which must deal with the failure of the russian peacekeepers. we must strengthen support for an armenia where hundreds of thousands of armenians fear for their survival every day and are threatened by what we fear for ukraine.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this week has again shown the urgency of european industry and that urgency has come to light. you have all read the hesitations, especially of volkswagen, one of our economic jewels, about whether to open a mega-battery factory in europe or the united states. that's the question. you have all seen and read that the european announcements will determine the choice of volkswagen. i think, mr weber, that you are making a mistake in thinking that only trade agreements will solve the problems of competitiveness. it is not just trade agreements that are part of our european policies. and what is our situation? we have gotten into a difficult situation in a global economic war. our industry is waiting for european intervention, as i said. my group has been calling for action on all fronts for months. i see that we have made progress on some of them and i congratulate the european commission on this. on others we can do more and probably do better. so how do we make our industry more competitive? i see three points. first, lower prices in the supply of energy raw materials. on that, i think we have taken a good step in the right direction. we supported long-term contracts for decarbonised energy. yes, we need to diversify our supply sources and speed up the recycling of raw materials. this is the sine qua non for clean technologies to develop in europe. secondly, i see that private and public funding is not high enough today. we're behind on the funding. we must be able to compete with our american and chinese competitors. how do we explain to our smes that after our speeches, hundreds of speeches, some are still waiting for the stimulus funds we have decided on now for a few months. we have been talking about the capital markets union for ten years, we have been talking about the revision of the stability and growth pact for five years, and my group has been calling for a reflection on a european sovereignty fund for two years. and we're still waiting on that funding part. investment is, i think, the nerve of the war in this economic war. a clear and favourable framework is exactly what european industrialists are asking us for today. finally, we must have a fair relationship with our partners. madam president, i still do not see any exemption for european companies in the american market. i see increasingly unfair competition elsewhere, particularly in asia. in conclusion, colleagues, what are our options? the race for subsidies, i think we don't want it. a reciprocal and regulated access to our market, we have little choice but to go for that option. we've waited long enough. the european council has waited too long for the commission's proposals and the european executive has waited too long for national governments to agree on a consensus that never came. so now the proposals are on the table. you will always find my renew group alongside the european ambition and proposals. we will vote before the summer and i hope that this is an ambition that all the groups will have on speed and urgency in this area. our industry is asking us to do it.
madam president, mr president of the commission, mr vice-president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the agenda for the next council puts on the table the issues on which the future of our union is at stake: the support for ukraine in the first place, more than a year after the invasion, must be even stronger because we are defending, alongside kiev, at all costs, the values that 2000 years of history have handed down to us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a challenge we can only overcome by focusing on three essential factors: a very strong investment in human capital, clean and low-cost energy and finally a new business strategy that continues to make us world leaders. and i regret, mr vice-president, that this last point has not been one of the commission's priorities. finally, i do not think it is time to bury our heads in the sand: the european union must not be allowed to be the arbiter of the future, and it must not be the arbiter of the future.
madam president, in times of geopolitical turbulence such as the present, it is more important than ever that the european union knows how to find its place in the world in political and security terms, but also in economic, commercial or industrial terms. this requires broad consensus and shared ambitions. in this respect, for example, it is positive that the commission has presented the green deal industrial plan and, in particular, the law on net zero emission industries. this is the first legislative proposal of the union devoted to industrial policy and with a strategic sovereignty perspective. however, we are seeing the council today reopen discussions and political agreements already concluded on very important measures to combat climate change, such as the end of combustion engines by 2035. and there are many other examples of how some governments and some groups in this house are systematically trying to reduce the ambition in the deployment of the green deal measures. but now is not the time to be divided, now is the time to maintain the political unity and ambition that will allow us to move forward in the ecological transformation and to be leaders in more competitive industries, that is, sustainable industries.
madam president, madam president von der leyen, mr president charles michel, at a time when the state of energy emergency is being declared throughout europe, the fundamental freedom of movement of our fellow citizens is being called into question more than ever. what did the motorists do to you to deserve such hatred? after the carbon taxes that triggered the anger of the yellow vests in france, after the malus of all kinds, after the privatisation of the motorways which led to the massive increase in toll prices, europe and the ayatollahs of punitive ecology have invented a new persecution against them: low emission zones that prohibit large agglomerations to a majority of vehicles. with these low emission zones, you are legitimising behind the good principle of ecology the assumed exclusion of ordinary people, of those who have no other choice but to use their diesel car to live and work. but hell is paved with good intentions. these low emission zones are highly exclusion zones which will relegate out of the large urban centres the more modest ones, whose car is often the only means of transport. with these low emission zones, it is better to own a state-of-the-art porsche hybrid in a posh neighbourhood than a small clio with 75,000 kilometres on the clock in a rural commune. you erect around the great cities of europe an invisible and yet impregnable citadel, that of money. in the end, these low-emission zones impose tolls on the more modest ones. with the demagogic ban on the sale of thermal vehicles by 2035, with the introduction of these zfe, you confirm that for the european union, ecology is about monitoring, punishing, excluding, taxing, weakening and tracking. we french are among the cleanest, most virtuous people in the world. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the new technologies. the polluter is not the french car manufacturer, but the supertanker from the other side of the world. as europe raises the question of its future this morning, our citizens are wondering whether travelling is becoming a luxury that will be out of their reach tomorrow.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. we condemn the military aggression of russia against ukraine. this is a violation of international law and morally indefensible. we sympathize with the victims of the war in ukraine. we've been supporting ukraine since the beginning of the war. hungary is providing ukraine with the largest humanitarian aid in its history. it has taken in over a million refugees. but it has not yet produced any results, since the european union has pursued a policy of sanctions that destroy european economies and arms deliveries that risk escalating into world war, instead of using the tools of diplomacy. we need a new approach. europe must define and represent its own interests rather than serving other interests, lest it be dragged into war. instead of arms deliveries and further sanctions, we must be advocating a ceasefire, peace negotiations and the development of a european peace plan that offers hope for ending the war.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, the competitiveness of our enterprises in the european union is a priority for the commission and also for the member states. we, the european people's party, have been calling for this for years. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. we need to create incentives to invest in new, clean technologies. prohibitions do not help us, they only lead to the relocation of factories, to the relocation of production abroad. we are already seeing this today, and that is why the proposals which have now been put forward by the commission to support the competitiveness of our farms are a good thing. we need to cut red tape, we need to cut back on regulation, we need to speed up and simplify processes. i would like to say that i am very pleased with the proposals, but we must also examine the existing rules. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the marketing of medicinal products for human use. we have to do our homework on this. we in the house, i think, are also required to be cautious in the legislative proposals - i'll just mention the supply chain due diligence act - that we're making here. finally, we need to think in value chains. the law on critical raw materials is good, but we need, for example, a chemical industry here in europe. we also need a pharmaceutical industry, we need strong craft industries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. for wind turbine tops, for rotor blades, for chips, for all the things we want, we need the chemical industry. that is why i am calling for the chemical industry to be considered, not just clean technology.
madam president, dear colleagues, while the us congress adopted the inflation reduction act months ago, we are still discussing how to answer this challenge. in the meantime, europe is losing business opportunities and potential jobs. volkswagen just postponed plans to build a mega factory in the czech republic while signing up for a new plant in the us. this is just one story. there are other companies in other countries that are moving their businesses from europe also. the reason? the inflation reduction act provides companies with better conditions. we need to see concrete results from the talks between president biden and president von der leyen. we need to come up with new european incentives as a way to strengthen our competitiveness. and we need a quick solution. but, more importantly, we need a united european solution.
madam president, mr president, you have come to tell us about the discussions currently taking place between the member states. only you don't say a word about afghan women, not a word about iranian women who are constantly harassed. nor is there a word about the polish and hungarian women who are fighting for their rights, while we are just celebrating the anniversary of international women's day. nor do you say a word of regret for the 60 dead we have counted in the mediterranean, murdered by our own selfishness, not a word about the victims we could welcome from the most important earthquake in history, on the borders of europe. the chairwoman of the committee told us about the ira, about her meeting with joe biden, but she didn't mention the willow project that joe biden approved in alaska, when there is an urgent need to protect the climate and the arctic. i ask you, do you care so little for the suffering of human beings and the decline of life? are you so possessed by the demon of liberalism? what world are you living in? what kind of world are we living in? instead, you talk about free trade, about competitiveness. competitiveness, which philippe lamberts reminded us was part of a finite world. it's imperative that we keep our eyes open. we don't have time to wait.
madam president, mr president, commissioner, the united states is still, as we speak, sucking up to our great european industries, northvolt, volkswagen, basf, solvay. deindustrialisation is what's coming. and if we are to meet that challenge, it's going to take more than a diplomatic visit to ensure the sole sale of our electric vehicles across the atlantic. we need a general exemption and, above all, we need tangible investments here in europe. and that is something that everyone here has understood, except perhaps the epp, the political group of president von der leyen herself, who has done everything to block the european parliament in its response to the ira. but the real issue is europe's place in the world, in this world which is so upset. this is how europe gets out of all these strategic dependencies that make us weaker, energy, medicines, fertilisers or even photovoltaic panels. that is why, mr president, commissioner, if the european union is to become a real power, it must stop being subject to the decisions of others. it must be forward-looking and for that the heads of state and the commission must stop procrastinating. today is the day of our future.
madam president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, it was with great relief that we learned yesterday of the proposed reform of the european electricity market. finally, the long term is being re-introduced into the energy strategies we need to invest in our future. now, this isn't just about the market. the energy crisis we are experiencing is not just a commercial issue, it is first and foremost an industrial issue. and if we want to overcome it, we have to produce, produce more, produce better, produce carbon-free electricity and to do that, use all sources of carbon-free energy and especially, of course, nuclear. and it is a pity that within the european commission a battle of another age is being waged to disqualify nuclear power. we hope that in the net-zero industry act which will be published soon, nuclear energy will have its place, not only in the form, commissioner, of smrs, but also through large-scale production, because that is what we need. those who are fighting against this energy today, whether in the commission or in parliament, like the colleagues who voted yesterday against the inclusion of nuclear energy in the energy transition of buildings, are also fighting against the environment, against our sovereignty, against our independence, against our democracies. and i believe that today, we need to be serious and consistent in these vital battles.
co-chair of the left. when will you stop considering us women as the adjustment variables of your policies? women are in the underpaid and under-represented occupations - housekeepers, nursing assistants, cashiers, domestic workers, nannies, secretaries. women are already suffering from part-time jobs and cut-off careers. but they are the ones who are being asked to do more and more. the debate on pension reform in france shows how much we are just adjustment variables. on the one hand, we have emmanuel macron who wants to make 60% of the savings on the backs of women, despite pension levels already 40% lower. on the other hand, we have the far right who see us women as child-making machines. so i say to you, to the far right, leave our wombs alone. have we become so much of an adjustment variable that our fundamental rights no longer matter? i'm part of that generation that thought abortion was a given. but simone de beauvoir was right to warn us. it would take a crisis to call women's rights into question, she said. i know now that the ivg must be vigorously defended and protected throughout our constitutions. yesterday, a polish activist was sentenced to eight months of community service for helping a woman in europe to have an abortion in 2023. in this country, as well as in hungary, malta and soon in italy, the right to ivf is severely restricted or even suppressed. meanwhile, every nine minutes a woman dies from a clandestine abortion worldwide. so i would ask the far right members of this house who are constantly fighting abortion: how many more women will you let die using this: a hanger? let me make this clear once and for all: we are not adjustment variables. our bodies are not yours. they belong to us. we are not afraid of you and we will fight tirelessly for our rights until equality is achieved.
mr president, there is about the same majority. our epp colleagues must understand that there is no majority when renew votes for the other side. so we have to stop saying "check" systematically. i just want to say that there is a priori the same majority on the votes and we are not going to do checks on all the votes.
author. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, renew is convinced that european action is essential to create the jobs of today and tomorrow. more europe means more jobs, more prosperity, more opportunities for the individual. we believe that it is work and innovation that ensure the development of our societies, not decline. we believe that production and values and value added will be the conditions for the wealth of our continent for tomorrow. that there is no magic money to finance our social services, our collective projects and the preservation of our common goods, including the environment. we believe that our continent should create the technological disruptions, not suffer them. we believe that the ecological transition will be successful and successful only if it is an economic opportunity and not just a moral imperative for our future generations. we believe that the competitiveness of our economy is essential to creating and maintaining our quality of life in europe. it is with this conviction that renew is pushing for europe and its institutions to be the engine of the economy of tomorrow. the single market has already ensured the prosperity of our continent, but today its foundations are under threat. cheap fossil energy is no more. our competitors are waging a trade war, a technology war. geopolitical conflicts are increasing the risk of a downgrading of european economies. but europe is still the solution. if we take one of the necessary building blocks that is the building block of the economy of tomorrow, there is no possibility, at the national level, to create today digital giants and energy transition giants. the first is competitiveness, as i said in the introduction. our industrial competitiveness has declined because of energy costs. it is at european level that we must invest massively in renewable energy or building insulation. it is by reforming our electricity market that we will also enable solidarity between the states and a fall in prices which will enable our companies to be competitive. we alone are insignificant compared to china and the united states. there is no reciprocity where there is no equality. it is europe that assures europeans that they can speak as equals with other powers. and yes, more europe means more competitiveness and more jobs. the second foundation is autonomy and open strategic autonomy as we call it in our group. covid and the current crisis have exposed our dependence on global supply chains, and we're reminded of this with our successive crises. we must be sovereign over our food, over our health products, over our raw materials. that is why my group will always defend the cap, the production of raw materials and the basic needs of our soil. yes, europe means less dependence, more sovereignty, more economic, food and health security and therefore more jobs also in the area of independence and autonomy. the third pillar is the ecological transition. the transition requires massive investment planning and above all being the first to innovate. those who invent the sustainable, carbon-free economic model will have the rest of the world as their customers. and these are political objectives which we must set ourselves as europeans. the fourth and final pillar, mr president, is innovation. europe can be the factory of the world of tomorrow if it is the laboratory of today. we need to massively encourage our children, our young people, to embrace careers as scientists, engineers, ai technologists by investing in new technologies and research for our companies, our academic research centres, for the protection of our intellectual property. none of these projects are done alone. it is europe that unites and makes us strong in investing in these fundamentals. it is europe that will preserve our purchasing power, our jobs of tomorrow, our prosperity. that's why the renew group is offering you this debate with these fundamentals to debate.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, yesterday, between two meetings, i went to the castorama shop in lampertheim, 10 km from here. it was not to re-wall my office, but to support xavier, who works in the paint department and is on hunger strike in his car outside the store. xavier earns €1,400 a month, despite having been employed there for 13 years. with prices soaring, he and his colleagues can no longer make ends meet. some even sleep in their cars all year long. meanwhile, castorama is giving away: almost €3 billion in turnover by 2022; more than €540 million was distributed to shareholders. profits have never been so high. and the prosperity you speak of, the workers never see the colour. after the health crisis, after the war, after inflation, we must stop repeating the same dogmas over and over again: the single market as a magic solution, the sacrosanct competition, restrictions on state aid... one element must now be at the heart of our european economic strategy: sharing. to share the wealth produced with those who create it, this wealth: the workers.
mr president, when we talk about the european economy and we hear words like competitiveness, growth, prosperity, jobs , we immediately add: small and mediumsized enterprises. yes, it is smes that hold the key to growth and jobs in europe. six months, commissioner, six months have passed since the promises to introduce a package of relief for small and medium-sized enterprises. and i ask myself, what happened to that promise? why do businesses have to wait so long to meet it? we don't have that kind of time. i understand the rules of the game have changed, especially recently. and europe is not to blame. i understand that we're looking for a common, comprehensive solution. i understand that we are breaking down the taboos around the internal market. what i don't understand is why we still don't understand that entrepreneurs don't want anything other than what their definition dictates that they should be doing, which is doing business in peace and bringing benefits to everyone. access to finance, agile approval processes, skills, innovation, investment, all of that is needed, but if we don't improve the business environment, if we don't relieve companies of the bureaucracy, then we're trying in vain. debate and promises alone will not bring competitiveness, growth or jobs.
mr president, with this debate the renew group is inviting us to think about what the competitive economy of tomorrow will look like. it is a pity that we are not talking about what a strong, inclusive economy could be for the europe of tomorrow. in these tense geopolitical and economic times, that is what is important. that is what we environmentalists have been trying to say systematically in this house. when we talk about platform work, we greens dream of a model that controls algorithms and consolidates social gains. when we talk about equal pay, we greens think of a transparent economic model that puts an end to discrimination. when we talk about jobs, we greens are building the conditions for a just ecological transition and training for these sustainable jobs. when we talk about minimum wages, we greens call for decency and the fight against poverty. this is what we want for the transition of the economy and the jobs of tomorrow. inclusion of the most vulnerable, training for a green, sustainable economy that respects people and nature.
mr president, madam minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it has been eight months since our american partner launched his major investment plan, the ira. eight months of europe's procrastination but the big industrialists have no time to lose. northvolt, safran, volkswagen, these stars of our industry are abandoning projects on our continent in order to benefit from american subsidies. so yes, the commission is right to bring forward the net-zero industry act. but it's too late. it's too late, and we know it won't be enough. we must also address the other issues related to our strategic autonomy. we must once again produce in europe so that we are no longer dependent on unreliable or belligerent states, as is the case with china for our medicines and rare materials, or russia, of course, for our fertilisers and energy supplies. that is why, commissioner, we are waiting in this parliament for a european sovereignty fund with a broad scope and capable of enabling us to get out of all our critical dependencies. without it, europe will be condemned to spend hundreds of billions, again and again, to adapt to the next geopolitical turbulence. and we know that these turbulences, they're gonna happen sooner or later.
mr president, i am glad that we are finally addressing the competitiveness elephant here in this room, even if ms jongerius doesn’t agree on that point. europe’s cutting—edge green industry is our biggest ally in the green transition, but we cannot ask them to complete the mission with their hands tied to their backs by excessive regulatory burden. and here i think, mr commissioner, we clearly have to do something for our companies. and secondly, of course, for the lack of raw materials, because europe is a raw—material—poor continent. we need to maintain a strong manufacturing base in europe. on this, i think that everybody here in the room agrees. but this does not mean that we should chase the illusion of autarchy. if we deprive ourselves of the needed inputs to produce in europe, we will make the green transition impossibly expensive for consumers and the uptake and the exception will not be there. instead, we should play to our strengths and leverage our unrivalled network of trade agreements and expand urgently to others like australia, mercosur, chile, to name just those that we could ratify before the end of the mandate to diversify our supply chains, to complement and sustain a strong green manufacturing base in europe. i therefore welcome, for example, the launch of negotiations on a targeted critical raw minerals agreement with the us and i hope this won’t remain a one—off. einstein is claimed to have said that the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over and expecting different results. let’s show instead that our generation is in fact capable of learning from past protectionist errors.
mr president, digitisation and decarbonisation are the keys to the roadmap that by 2050 must make the union viable and resilient as a community and competitive as a productive system. we need to innovate processes and standards, build safe and accessible data mines, transform our mobility, energy generation, consumption habits and encourage the changes people make. so we have to look at equality as a competitive advantage. the most skilled at breaking glass ceilings will have the most talent-rich economies. and that's competitive. that's why we need to treat immigration as an opportunity, because our aging society needs people who are willing to seize an opportunity. and that's why we have to distribute wealth fairly and help the most disadvantaged. margination is incompatible with resilience. so the key to this transformation is to adapt our education systems to a world that, in addition to technology, needs humanity, talent, social justice, equity and innovation. yes, intelligence, but more than artificial.
mr president, commissioner, we are discussing a very interesting subject here: more europe and more jobs. i would like to change that to "a better europe and better jobs", because "more, more, more" is neoliberal. and we also have to look to what the future holds. we all want to preserve our prosperity for ourselves, for our children, our grandchildren. of course we want that. we are not doing this by creating more and more rules, more and more legislation, but we also have to look at how europe works. invest in better education to ensure future innovation. invest in healthy lifestyles as preventive health care, to keep older people's knowledge and experience active in society for longer. the single market is sinking. why would you do that? the monitoring and control of all the legislation we produce here is no longer done by local authorities because people do not feel european. europe is a cesspool of subsidies and that is why we want to be part of europe. europe is economic cooperation. and what are we missing? we're missing the connection between the europeans. we all have the same history in europe and yet we think nationally. i therefore call for greater investment in a european emotion and identity. and you don't do that just by promising economic cooperation. we must also do this through culture, sports and so on. i think that if we do that, people will feel connected to europe. and then it will also be easier to comply with what is agreed in europe, and not just on the basis of future profits. that profit lies in our future prosperity and well-being.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all, i think that this was a very useful debate on a major issue, since what is at stake is, after all, the future of europe, the future of our countries and the prosperity of our countries. as it is fashionable now to look a lot towards the united states, which has caused a kind of shock, i would just like to quote an american president, who also seems to inspire a lot the current american president, namely roosevelt. he said, at the time of the 1929 crisis: "the only limit to our realization of tomorrow will be our doubts of today". so i think that's a good lesson, because it's not enough to doubt, to sow fear -- another theme, by the way, of roosevelt. i believe that what we need today is strong political will. and this one must be done at european level. and i hear the lesson quite clearly, very clearly, that it would be extremely dangerous to ignore, to neglect the new geopolitical and geoeconomic realities that we have to face. i think europe has reacted. we were the first to react and act, especially in the face of climate change. it's still strange that suddenly we're questioning that. when the others, whether they're chinese, whether they're americans, whether they're canadians, what do they do? well, they're implementing policies on climate change; they are implementing strong industrial policies, the ones we advocated from the beginning. so let's not let this destabilize us. i think the biggest danger now is adding unpredictability to the uncertainty that already exists in the world today. what companies need is, of course, an acceptable regulatory framework. and i agree that perhaps we should look at this again, but this is not just a european issue. it always seems that europe is the one that regulates everything. perhaps we should also look at the member states. and above all, how the member states implement the regulations. the deadlines are not europe, they are the member states. and so that is absolutely a point that we have to deal with. but the other point is also to continue on our way now. does questioning decisions that have been made help companies? it's adding unpredictability to their plans. i see that in the united states, they are now also investing in electricity at the level of the automobile. because the whole plan is to encourage the manufacture of electric cars in the united states. and what are the chinese doing? the chinese are already, or at least they are planning to, flood the market with electric cars. and so it is against this that we must prepare. it is in relation to these challenges that we really need to invest in technology more quickly, invest in human capital, as has been said. i think we have a good hand here, and we have to play it. we have to play them together. this is what more europe means. but a better europe, so that europe is not the big loser in this new international game.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you very much for a very interesting debate. let me also start by quoting ms bischoff, since she said that it is not about predicting the future, but rather being prepared for it. allow me to put it like this: we can do both. we can predict that if we do nothing, we will remain less competitive in the global world. and we can prepare the future by laying the groundwork for long—term competitiveness. that means deepening the single market, better and sometimes less regulation, investing in research and innovation, realising the green and digital transition. the european parliament is clearly engaged in this common striving to make the european economy stronger and competitive. and, as i mentioned, the commission’s strategy on long—term competitiveness and the single market at 30 communication that we are awaiting, as well as the green deal industrial plan, will be important grounds for a comprehensive approach on how to further enhance our competitiveness, productivity and more jobs, both for women and men, as ms fritzon said. ms jongerius just called for well-paid quality jobs, and i can only agree. if competitiveness is becoming a buzzword, well, that is good. that means that it is at the top of the agenda, which it has not been for decades. making a long—term strategy a success requires determined and consistent work over many years on a broad array of issues: single market, capital markets union, better regulation, global trade agreements, research, innovation, policy and skills. we will continue putting this issue high on the political agenda and engage our discussions with the european parliament to build the competitive economy of tomorrow for the benefit of all.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. europe must lead the clean technology industrial revolution, competing with the us and china, while promoting its unique socioeconomic model. the s&d group believes that the eu should be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion, and that the eu should be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion. competitiveness alone does not create quality, well-paid jobs, so we must not allow these investments to be used as an excuse to reduce our work in the social dimension. we cannot allow cuts in social investment because we want to be truly competitive. putting the burden of green transition on the backs of workers is not an option. our objectives: to create quality jobs and good working conditions and to ensure the territorial cohesion of the union and its strong position in the global economy. social dialogue and good industrial relations are also key to the success of this major industrial transformation.
in writing. europe must lead the clean technology industrial revolution, competing with the us and china, while promoting its unique socioeconomic model. the s&d group believes that the eu should be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion, and that the eu should be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion. competitiveness alone does not create quality, well-paid jobs, so we must not allow these investments to be used as an excuse to reduce our work in the social dimension. we cannot allow cuts in social investment because we want to be truly competitive. putting the burden of green transition on the backs of workers is not an option. our objectives: to create quality jobs and good working conditions and to ensure the territorial cohesion of the union and its strong position in the global economy. social dialogue and good industrial relations are also key to the success of this major industrial transformation.
in writing. – the call for a more competitive europe comes in the wake of the covid pandemic and the war in ukraine. concurrently, the eu has adopted an ambitious industrial strategy aimed at countering global climate warming while achieving a radical digital transformation. this requires huge investment commitments, public and private. they have lagged. also, the eu needs to ensure that its enterprises remain competitive internally and externally. to face these challenges we must choose: --between an open, free market model on a global scale; or --a gated globalisation, which accepts that continental markets like the eu need active public interventions to lever investments and maintain economic momentum. the latter has been happening during and post-covid. in my view, it is the best available approach. how to effectively implement it cannot be declared ex cathedra. it must emerge as the result of incremental experience in protecting and promoting jobs, plus in generating innovation. this will require innovative ways of directing the interplay between social welfare funds and labour markets; a review of state aid rules; greater clarity in exercises launched to secure europe’s strategic autonomy; educational reforms; and bold, new efforts to build capital markets that can effectively mobilise investment funds. it is a tall order.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the collapse of the silicon valley bank and its consequences for the stability of the financial system in europe (2023/2608 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for the opportunity of this debate, which is very timely. we are monitoring the situation in the us carefully. the direct impact on the european union seems to be limited, but we should reflect on whether there are lessons to be learned for the european union’s banking sector. let me start first by giving a brief overview of recent events. over the last few days, we saw three us banks fail. they are silicon valley bank, signature bank and silvergate bank. us authorities took swift and decisive action based on their extensive resolution experience. there was strong cooperation between the different authorities involved: the resolution authority, the federal deposit insurance corporation; the supervisor, the federal reserve; and the us treasury, providing a backstop. the failures of these banks show shortcomings in the management of their balance sheets. this became apparent when the downturn in crypto and the tech sector led startups to withdraw their deposits. in particular, it seems that the biggest of the three banks, silicon valley, received a large inflow of corporate deposits during and after covid. they invested a significant part of these deposits in long-term fixed-rate assets. but they were then faced with an outflow of deposits so had to sell these long-term assets at a significant loss as interest rates had risen. this loss in turn triggered more outflows of deposits. the bank was unable to raise capital on the market and the us resolution authorities had to step in. let me turn now to the impact on the european union. silicon valley bank has a very limited presence in the european union and we’re in touch with the relevant supervisory authorities. so the direct impact of these bank failures on the eu seems to be limited. silicon valley bank’s german branch had lending, where bafin has already issued a moratorium, but no deposits. in denmark and sweden, silicon valley bank was present with representative offices but had no operating branch gathering deposits. of course, we are monitoring developments with eu supervisors, and that includes the reaction on the markets, which was initially negative on the eu banking sector but has since calmed down. it is the role of competent authorities, under the coordination of the eba if necessary, to form a view of the possible exposure of businesses and particularly the technology sector. the situation around silicon valley bank is still unfolding and there are many particularities about it. there are no immediate parallels with eu banks. but, more broadly, this situation shows how the economic and financial situation is changing globally and in europe. the shift in interest rates has created a new environment. the eu financial system and banks in particular are adjusting under close supervision. we have to stay alert to this new environment. higher inflation and rising interest rates present different challenges to financial stability than ‘low-for-long’ interest rates. the problem of unrealised losses on the bond portfolio of silicon valley bank is an illustration of that. however, the possible difficulties this environment may create for banks’ balance sheets are not new. so, we can say that the eu banking sector is in overall good shape. it has built up its resilience in recent years and it is supervised closely by national and european authorities. but i think at this very early stage we can start to look at some of the lessons that these failures in the us have for the european union. these us banks were not subject to strict regulatory requirements for liquidity because the united states does not apply basel to mid-sized and smaller banks, while here in the european union we do apply the basel prudential standards to all banks. had this been the case in the us and the basel requirements on liquidity applied, it is likely these us banks would have had a stronger liquidity position. the net stable funding ratio in particular makes it much harder for banks to finance long-dated illiquid assets with a volatile deposit base prone to fast withdrawals. i repeat that here in the european union, the basel prudential standards are applied to all banks. this introduces an important layer of caution into the prudential regulation and supervision of the eu banking sector, and that includes liquidity risks, interest rate risk and the need to cover unrealised losses on bond portfolios with capital. supervisors have paid particular attention to interest rate risk in recent years. eu supervisory authorities are closely monitoring recent changes in interest rate risk and liquidity conditions, including possible contagion risks at the level of banks and the system level. finally, prudential and accounting rules require eu banks to cover, with capital, unrealised losses on their bond portfolios in a timely manner. a second question is to understand under what conditions silicon valley bank expanded abroad. the bank was subject to lighter rules in the united states. basel standards should apply on internationally active banks. this shows how important our discussions are in the banking package trilogues, in particular for rules relating to third country branches. these cases we’re discussing today also illustrate the importance of a strong and operational crisis management framework that includes the appropriate tools for dealing with all banks in trouble. like any bank failures, these cases are distinct, but we can see the importance of a robust crisis management and deposit insurance framework. such a framework allows the failure of banks to be handled in an orderly and timely manner, regardless of their size or business model. one interesting aspect is that the case of silicon valley bank concerns a us mid-sized bank, which by eu standards would in fact be considered a big bank. the us authorities decided to extend their guarantee to uninsured deposits to avoid repercussions on financial stability and the regional economy. they acted to prevent additional volatility in light of the simultaneous failures of smaller banks. all of this confirms that we need an effective crisis management toolbox for the banking sector to protect depositor confidence, financial stability and taxpayers. so, i want to close by reiterating the following. we are watching events in the united states where authorities did take swift and resolute action. the direct impact on the european union seems limited, and we are in touch with the relevant supervisory authorities. we are also considering what these failures can teach us in terms of prudential regulation, supervision and bank crisis management and deposit insurance. so, i look forward to today’s debate and i thank the parliament for their flexibility in facilitating a very timely debate on a really important topic.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, a very warm thank you for your clear words and description of what is happening in the banking industry in america right now. the backgrounds are complex. they are due to individual factors, but we must also address the question. it is also relevant for us in europe. one of the main factors that led to the failure of silicon valley bank was a real liquidity surge. this liquidity could not seem to be invested sensibly. the central banks, including the european central bank, have made a major contribution to this flood of money. that's why we have to deal with it. but the central banks have not only created a liquidity surplus, but they are now also, of course, tasked with fighting inflation, which they have helped create, and that is another cause. i want to make this very clear. i think the interest rate moves are right, including those taken by the ecb. i hope that further interest rate measures will be decided. but there are side effects, of course, and banks need to prepare for them. the second aspect of the assessment of the incidents is the way in which international standards for banking regulation are implemented in the us and in the european union. i am very grateful to you, commissioner, for pointing this out. in our europe, the smallest bank is just as much bound by the basel rules as the largest bank - a very big difference from the usa. what we did in terms of relief was specifically for banks that are not cross-border, that have a simple business model, and we didn't exempt them from supervisory obligations, we just exempted them from reporting obligations. there's a big difference. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. then we're on the right track.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, madam commissioner, i will be very brief. very quickly, because i reasonably agree with you in how you have presented the situation and the emergencies or the problems we have in europe. first, we need a proposal now to review the banking crisis management framework. we know that it has been delayed and we need a legislative proposal now to deal with it quickly. secondly, to my colleagues in parliament and to our friends in the council: in the tripartite dialogue on the implementation of the basle agreement we have to be very, very careful - in view of what has happened in the united states - and review, negotiate and see to what extent europe is capable of delivering on it. because, even if we apply similar criteria to all banks, we do not apply all the basel criteria, and in that negotiation we should avoid it. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. we are trying to revive the negotiation in this parliament. the council is standing. but it is urgent.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, commissioner, for being here for this important and timely exchange given the situation, as from silicon valley bank to silvergate bank to signature bank, there is a new wave of tech-based bank failures sweeping the united states. so, will this wave hit europe and how will it impact our banks and european tech companies? no one really knows today. one thing is certain, and you have mentioned it, the contingency mechanisms and rules put in place after the 2008 financial crisis are strong buffers to ensure the resilience of our european banks. in europe, we regularly test the resilience of our banks to various risks, including inflation. the announcements made in recent days by several european ministers of the economy reassure us of the soundness of our system in europe. but let's face it, the failure of these american banks is about the digital industry, a moving industry that knows no borders. so let us keep on the watch. vigilantes to protect the competitiveness of small tech companies. we are vigilant to avoid any systemic risk in europe that would affect banks, european citizens. it is a question of responsibility, financial stability and confidence in our market, the resilience of this european market. you reminded us that it is up to the european banking authority, in liaison with the national authorities, to ensure this. the european parliament, on the other hand, representing more than 450 million european citizens, must continue to protect them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 15 years after the 2008 financial crisis, which shook the world economy, the bankruptcy of svb, the bank of start-ups and the new economy, sounds like a warning against the dogmatic deviations of the banking system. if the lightning speed of the withdrawal wave is linked to the weight of social networks, we can not exempt ourselves from analyzing the reasons for the poor financial health of this californian bank. it is true that the excessive investment in treasury bills, the value of which collapsed with the rate cut decided by the fed to combat inflation, contributed to this bankruptcy. but more insidiously, as several major american bosses, including bernie marcus, founder of the home depot department store chain, have also said, it is also explained by the choice of the svb and a few other banks to make investments by prioritizing not profitability and security for shareholders, but topics that are not in principle, such as global warming or diversity. shareholders and employees are now paying the price for this exclusive and dogmatic exposure to a very fragile underlying market, while the responsible executives of the bank have hastily saved their personal interests. i would like to believe that despite similar dogmatism by some financial institutions in europe, much stronger european banking regulation would prohibit such a reckless risk. let us hope that dogmatism on this subject does not prevail in our discussions.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the bankruptcy of the svb is a reminder of past crises and their geopolitical, social and economic context. when bruno le maire explains to the french that this crisis will not cross borders, it reminds ms buzyn explaining that the virus had no passport. the credit suisse fell 30% this afternoon. and the risky venture into chinese real estate, the feverish assets of deutsche bank, closely linked to società generale and monte dei paschi, reminds us that finance is a bubble ready to burst. the european union is cutting off the sovereignty of the states, but will not hesitate to make them pay for a new crisis linked to its economic and financial policy. all this in a context of over-indebtedness justified by the invocation of magic money. europeans do not want to pay for a crisis that is predictable. the european union must react. inflation, corporate bankruptcy, overregulation, overtaxation, unemployment, sluggish growth, competition, questionable investment, over-indebtedness and dependence on foreign powers: this outbreak of american fever is a warning to be taken seriously.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, there is a fire at our door and we cannot look away. ukraine is under attack and europe is threatened. we have everything to gain from a victory of ukraine whereas a victory of russia would make us lose our security and our place in the world. in this context, we must use all the levers at our disposal at the same time. urgently supply ammunition to kiev, wherever it comes from, using the european peace facility. to be able to hold out in the long run by increasing our own production, both to continue to help ukraine, because the war will be long, and by making sure that we have for ourselves the equipment that we need. our defence industries must be encouraged to produce more by having visibility into orders that we must pass together. this is the purpose of edirpa, an instrument designed to make us more resilient, more sovereign and more secure. peace and freedom have no price, but they do have a cost. it is our duty to take it on ourselves and to explain to our compatriots why military aid to ukraine and the strengthening of our defence capabilities require significant and indispensable efforts.
mr president, if the reality were not so dramatic, if many people had not drowned in these perilous crossings, it could be said without any doubt that we are once again in a debate which denies reality, since the majority of this house is blinded by its dogmatic immigrationist positions. our countries, and france in particular, let tens, hundreds of thousands of foreigners believe that by trying to migrate illegally, they will find here housing and jobs that await them. the european institutions and some governments of the member states are playing the game of smugglers by not punishing them harshly, by continuing to subsidize ngos, which themselves act as smugglers. our european countries are literally overwhelmed by immigration and cannot take in more foreigners without endangering the economic and personal security of their citizens, especially the less well-off. the eu must give frontex much greater resources and a clear mandate to stop these boats from passing and to return these applicants to the country from which they left, thus avoiding these terrible human tragedies.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the need for immediate reform of the internal rules of the commission to ensure transparency and accountability in light of alleged conflicts of interests (2023/2610(rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the members of the commission and its staff are expected to adhere to the highest standards of professional ethics and integrity, and they are expected to comply with their obligations set out in the code of conduct and the staff regulations respectively. these high standards apply both to missions and to any gifts or hospitality offered. the commission has an effective internal control system for ethics management. this was recognised by the court of auditors in its 2019 report and by the european ombudsman in the 2021 report on the subject of outside activities. staff have to declare any actual or potential conflict of interest. each declaration is assessed thoroughly by the line manager and, where necessary, based on the guidance by the commission’s central ethics service. strict mitigating measures may be imposed. for example, the person concerned may be relieved of their duty to take a decision on a specific matter. furthermore, above a certain threshold, authorisation is needed in order to accept gifts or hospitality. mission costs are almost always covered entirely by the eu budget. in only 1.6% of all missions from 2019 to 2022 were there contributions by outside organisers. acceptance of such contributions is mainly for diplomatic or courtesy purposes. when staff are requested to carry out a mission, any planned contribution by the organisers has to be declared. any actual or potential conflict of interest has to be assessed by the staff member concerned, as well as by their hierarchy, in full transparency, through a dedicated it tool under the four eyes principle. if any conflict is detected, the mission is fully covered by the commission budget. directors-general are heads of service and responsible for their service budget. they are authorising officers delegated to do so by the college and they sign off on their own missions. in case of any potential conflict of interest, they are expected to seek the opinion of the political level or the commission’s central ethics service. all members of the commission and staff are well informed of their ethics obligations through numerous and regular trainings, from their entry into service until retirement, throughout their entire career. last year, almost 9 000 staff participated in ethics training. in addition, commissioners, members of their cabinet and directors-general can only meet interested representatives who are registered in the transparency register, and they must publish information on all such meetings. this applies to meetings with lobbyists in line with the interinstitutional rules on the transparency register. it does not apply to meetings with representatives of public authorities or the commission’s contractual partners. questions have been raised about missions to qatar by the commission’s director-general in charge of transport, mainly during the commission’s previous mandate. the commission has, in full transparency, disclosed all information related to travel with qatar. the purpose of these missions was to take forward the mobility and transport aspects of eu-qatar and gulf cooperation council relations, following up on the visit by former commissioner bulc to the gulf region. the director-general in charge of transport, as head of service and responsible for the mission budget of his service, signed off on his missions and he declared that there was no conflict of interest as regards certain mission costs being covered by third parties. this was based on his own assessment of the situation. the competent commission services are currently looking at this and all other related elements in order to establish the facts. we note that there were also missions by the director-general for transport to qatar that were paid entirely by the eu budget. looking at the broader picture, since last year, the commission has been revisiting its guide on missions. the main reason for this is to implement the commission’s ambitious greening targets and to take account of the increased use of online meetings during the pandemic. we are also using this opportunity to streamline our authorisation procedures for missions and to tackle the issue of perception for contributions made by third parties. we decided on 7 march, with immediate effect, that we will apply the following. directors-general will need to seek formal approval of the head of cabinet of their commissioner for all missions with a third-party contribution. now, the only contributions that could be accepted for any mission by a staff member would be from member states, eea or efta countries, international organisations like the un or international forums like the g7 or g20, and universities. we are confident that this approach will rule out even the slightest perception of conflicts of interest and that it will uphold the highest ethical standards the commission operates under in the interests of european citizens. the commission will cooperate fully and transparently with the european ombudsman on her strategic initiative on missions of senior staff members with a third-party contribution. and we look forward to continuing the dialogue with the european parliament. i look forward to the debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. thank you very much for your statement. at first, i must be honest, i was a little puzzled by the good, because i thought that the budget of the european union should be sufficient for the ceos, directors or officials of the european union, if they are to go to congresses or conferences that bring a substantial added value - in negotiations, in diplomatic relations, in any official function - then the budget of the european union should be available for this. invitations from third parties should not be made which could ultimately lead to suspicion that the impartiality, neutrality and objectivity of the director-general or the relevant staff of the european commission could be potentially compromised. i think it is absolutely essential, madam commissioner, that there should be a very clear regulation on this. the same applies to me, for example, when there are controls within the member states. it is not the member states who should be invited, but the european union budget must be equipped to cover official travel for official reasons, to remove any doubt. we must also be honest when we travel to a country which has special interests in visa liberalisation, in special air and land rights, where there are also protests within the european union against that country that there is unfair competition, that there are unfair conditions in terms of the competitive situation. if i look at qatar airways, if i look at discussions with airlines offering kerosene at significantly reduced prices, and many other things, then it must be stated that, strictly speaking, every trip that is made is really service-related and, secondly, is made in the interest of the service and is paid for by the european budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the image of our institutions has been tarnished by a succession of irregularities and malfunctions. it is not a question of politicizing or personalising these cases. we have not done so here in the european parliament and i do not intend to do so for the european commission. my concern is that we learn from this and draw the consequences for the future, so as to restore the union's citizens' confidence in our institutions. we have made a proposal here in parliament, a bold proposal for any legislative body, to delegate control over ourselves to an outside authority. it is not easy for any parliament. yet we took that step by voting an ambitious resolution and reaffirming it in a resolution last month. we call on the commission to take the initiative in doing the same in order to establish a high european ethical authority, which would be common to several european institutions and which would allow us not to control ourselves, in a way, which is sometimes the source of many problems.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a qatargate, but a brusselsgate. four years after mrs von der leyen was appointed president, you come to us with a promise of reform of the commission's internal rules almost six months before the end of this mandate? transparency and accountability. how can i believe you? 71 billion euros of covid vaccine contracts, the largest contract in the history of the european union. who's hiding the clauses, who's hiding the texts between ursula and the ceo of pfizer, who's hiding the price of the shots, and until when? what are the activities of mrs von der leyen's husband? i've been waiting for your written answer since november. who underestimates the side effects of covid vaccines? who's pushing for the injection of children? who is censoring twitter? who refuses to investigate the slippers of civil servants and the lectures worth over €100,000 given by former president barroso? why does the convicted rape director still have his office on the eighth floor? in september i asked you what sanctions you envisaged for commissioners who would not use the business telephones during negotiations. this morning, your administration tells me that they refuse to give their agents business phones. so there is no transparency, no accountability, no punishment.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, nine business class trips, all paid for by qatar, is the nice gift that the european commission's top transport official received. while you were enjoying a five-star meal in the open air at the expense of qatar airways, your services were negotiating an air transport agreement, an agreement that turned out to be far more favourable to the qataris than to the europeans. on the day of the revelations, the european commission said: 'don't worry, we checked it out. no, no, no, we swear to you, there is no conflict of interest. commissioner, luxury travel paid for by qatari petrodollars while at the same time negotiations are taking place for an agreement with qatar, that is a conflict of interest. we cannot be satisfied with a system in which it is the senior officials themselves who control whether the gifts they receive are a conflict of interest or not. that is precisely why parliament is asking you to set up an independent ethics body. when you're caught red-handed, you stop procrastinating.
madam president, this quote by simone de beauvoir, 'you are not born a woman, you become one' has long guided feminist activism. it is a deception that exposes the violence against women who refuse to be monkeyed or denied. because the reality is this: you're a woman and you're either assuming it or not. feminist activism is gangrenous by the smoky concept of convergence of struggles. this idea that all minorities, because they are minorities, have common interests, no matter how conflicting the goals. yet it is these contradictions that are killing feminist activism. the convergence of struggles explodes into the collision of struggles. indeed, what feminist can walk alongside islamists who want to make women's bodies invisible? what feminist can accept gpa that is nothing but the rental of uterus? what lawyer would argue for a transitional rapist to be sent to a women's prison? what athlete can celebrate transgender victories and sweep away the odds of female competitors? what adolescent can not laugh at the mention of men's menstruation and pregnancy? the fractures of militancy are wide and numerous. and worse, they now generate death threats, like against j.k. rowling or dora moutot. so, yes, let's say it again, you're a woman and you assume it, or you don't. (speaker agrees to reply to a blue card)
the answer is 'blue card'. in this case, death threats are being made against people who speak like me. in this case, today, j.k. rowling and dora moutot. yes, death threats, ma'am. i know. so maybe we're not going to reverse the charge, because in this case, the people who are threatened are just the ones who say a woman is a woman and a man is a man.
madam president, commissioner and minister, ladies and gentlemen, two years ago, on 8 march, i was in poland. the abortion law had not been passed yet, but i could see the pressure on the activists who were serving women. they didn't have windows in their offices anymore because they were stone-paved, they were wooden planks. they were under pressure even before the law was passed. and already at that time, they had told us, and the parliamentarians had told us: we will have to defend the people who will help women to have abortions in poland when abortion will be illegal. because the reality, that's what we're talking about, is that when you ban abortion, you ban safe and legal abortion, you put women's lives at risk. and then there are other women who do their solidarity work and help them. justyna, let's talk about it, what did she do? an abortion pill for a woman who's been abused. and for that she is condemned. so i am not only calling on the polish government to reverse its decision and end this witch hunt, but above all i am calling on the commission and the council to put in place a system to protect activists, to protect rights, to recognise their legitimate work and to provide sufficient budgets for this tool.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, to defend human rights, yes. using this case to build a new class of citizens, no. that is how i could sum up our position on a text which exploits good feelings to promote questionable policy. you even go so far as to praise the work of the droi committee, which is being splashed with water by the qatari dispute, which reveals almost a decade of alignment on this work at the level of qatari interests. too often we see the same ambiguity in the european parliament's texts. is it the defence of human rights that you are really concerned about or the deployment of an ideological agenda? let's take an example. in your text you propose more and more sanctions against countries which do not conform to your policy. sanctions regimes are often the cause of the worst human rights violations. the hunger, the inability to get treatment. in syria, for example, international sanctions have driven 90 percent of the population below the poverty line, for example, even though the war has been over for several years. human rights do not grow in ruins or in cemeteries. on the contrary, your text is extremely quick to overlook the basic rights of human beings: food, shelter, health care. what you are interested in is supporting the advocates of gender theory, those who propose a woke culture, granting visas to any category claiming to be discriminated against, creating new rights to defend. not all minority political demands are necessarily good to defend and, above all, it is not always desirable for the european union to join them.
madam president, thank you, human rights defenders, who are working all over the world to defend the fundamental rights of all, which are absolutely essential for our common future. on the front lines, you human rights defenders face repression, attacks and intimidation, harassment, blackmail and digital surveillance. the international context of the last few months is a testimony to the increasingly violent repression. the eu has been active in strengthening cooperation and providing stronger support and protection for human rights defenders. but the bottom line is that our commitment can and must be further strengthened at all levels, both at european and member state level, including by continuing to provide financial support and defending the credibility of ngos and human rights defenders against all those who try to destabilise them. it is therefore imperative that we put human rights at the heart of our relations with third countries, through association, trade and cooperation agreements, once and for all. the values that the eu upholds and protects, not political interests, must be the real guiding principles of our international relations.
mr president, commissioner, minister, his name was lucas, he was 13 years old. he went to school in golbey, in the vosges. he had his whole life ahead of him. yet, on january 7, 2014, because of the constant harassment he suffered, lucas took his own life. he was still openly gay. he was mocked by his classmates. her parents had already informed her school about this at parent-teacher conferences in september. yet he continued to suffer. he was being bullied about his clothes, his manner, what he said. homophobia killed him, discrimination killed him. please be aware that by delaying the adoption of the horizontal directive, you are depriving more than 500 million people of effective protection against discrimination. every day, hundreds of complaints of discrimination based on age, religion, disability or sexual orientation are lodged in our union. however, our capacity to support victims of discrimination remains severely limited. so, for all the lucas in our union, let's be brave, let's not let some government take our rights hostage. let us move forward with this horizontal anti-discrimination directive.
a writer. the commission is not tunisia, ladies and gentlemen, is on a fatal course in its internal politics. the president is solely responsible for this. he has been certified by the african union court of justice that everything he has caused since 25 july has been illegal and in breach of the constitution: dismissal of the government, dissolution of parliament, abolition of the 2014 constitution, the independent electoral authority and the high council of justice, dismissal of 57 judges, dissolution of all municipal representative bodies. with a voter turnout of 11% in the so-called elections, the population has given the president a corresponding level of legitimacy. the attacks on freedom of expression and assembly and on civil society organisations, including the umbrella union ugtt, are unacceptable. the arrest of journalist noureddine boutar on 13 february is pars pro toto. he is the director of the largest independent radio station in tunisia. other critics were arrested and sentenced, trade unionists were prosecuted and the head of the european trade union confederation was expelled. all this is unacceptable! we demand the immediate release of noureddine boutar and all those arbitrarily arrested or already convicted. all judges unlawfully dismissed must be reinstated; military courts are not allowed to try civilians. i expect the eu foreign affairs council on 20 march to be more than concerned. it must make a difference whether we are dealing with a democratic or an undemocratic tunisia. i expect our ministers to take up parliament's demands, for example, that we stop cooperating with repressive structures under the control of the ministry of the interior and the ministry of justice. i expect our eu delegation and our embassies to regularly make representations to the authorities and demand an end to the authorities' unconstitutional practices. i expect that we will demonstratively seek contact with independent media, political parties and civil society organizations and demand that the government fulfill its international obligations.
author. – mr president, my message today goes first to the good people of tunisia. the european parliament is with you. the situation in the country is extremely worrying. president saied has been self-ruling since 2021 and has dismissed practically all levels of government. people have lost their trust in the institutions. the extremely low turnout of the recent elections is a symptom of that. crackdown on civil society, the arrest and detentions of trade unions’ representatives, journalists, judges, lawyers and political activists paint a grim picture of tunisia’s democracy. in the s&d group, we urgently demand the authorities to reverse course and return to democracy before it’s too late. we condemn the expulsion of the european trade union chief esther lynch. and we demand the respect of workers’ rights. we need to act now. people of tunisia are losing hope of their country. europe stands with you.
author. mr president, the situation in tunisia is deteriorating rapidly. kaïs saïed is installing stone by stone all the components of a dictatorship. in a few months, all of democracy is gone, separation of powers, judicial system, freedom of the press, human rights, association. democracy has a new page of tears. the elected mayors have been removed from office. this new system also caused many casualties, including noureddine boutar and many others. the president cynically endangers the lives of sub-saharan africans with racist speeches that open the door to abuses against migrants and tunisians who have the misfortune to resemble them. populism is at its peak. it echoes, an unfortunate echo, the same racist populism in europe. we have the friends we deserve. it is time to condemn this regime in a clear and unequivocal way. it is time to ensure that no european funding is used directly or indirectly to install this dictatorship and violations of human rights. our responsibility is immense. let us stand with those who are still defending the rule of law and democracy in tunisia.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! i think we have to be careful about accusing populism, because it's an inherent feature of modern politics, unfortunately. it exists on different continents, including our own, and it is practically independent of who is in power and who is in opposition. but speaking of tunisia again, again in a very short time, not to mention this record of voter absenteeism, because if every ninth voter goes to the polls, it shows a complete drama, a complete lack of trust of voters, taxpayers in the electoral institutions, and therefore in the belief that something will change, then it must be said that of course we can criticize and we must criticize. it's good that we're doing this together and in solidarity. but let's go back a little bit. but the mistake, the mistake, our mistake, the mistake of the european union, the mistake of the west, is that we supported the arab spring, and not only in tunisia. we're paying the bills for it to this day. and that's our problem.
mr president, for us europeans and for me french, tunisia is more than an economic or political partner, it is a friend. and friendship means support, respect. it also involves sincerity. and in friendship and sincerity, we must recognize that the situation is seriously deteriorating in tunisia. it is deteriorating economically and socially and that is what tunisians are most concerned about. it is also deteriorating in terms of freedoms and the rule of law. i am thinking of course of noureddine boutar, the director of mosaïque fm, who was worried, harassed, imprisoned. i am also thinking of the ugtt trade unionists who have been harassed by the government in power. i am thinking of mrs lynch of the etuc, who was expelled from tunisia. i am also thinking of the dismissal of local elected officials and their replacement by civil servants. so what can the european union do about it? first, it must support all those in tunisia, not necessarily parliamentarians but above all outside the political sphere, who have solutions. i am thinking in particular of the great ugtt union, i am thinking of the national quartet and this is important to know. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and if the european union has a role to play, it is particularly in this area. we must not waste our financial support, our economic support. once again, this will allow the tunisian people to control their destiny.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, the authoritarian drift in tunisia has taken a new turn in recent weeks. president kaïs saïed continues to destroy democracy and the fundamental rights of the tunisian people. journalists, judges, lawyers, trade unions, human rights defenders and political opponents, and soon ngos, all face violent repression. noureddine boutar, chaima issa, issam chebbi and ghazi chaouchi and so many others are victims of this severe repression for exercising their right to freedom of expression. what about the racist remarks made by president kaïs saïed about sub-saharan migrants? i think they are extremely serious, their only purpose being to discharge themselves by appointing a scapegoat for the serious economic and political crises suffered by the tunisians. what a sadness, what a waste for tunisia, the cradle of the arab spring, to have been at the mercy of a regime for too long that has taken hostage the historic democratic transition launched by its people in 2011. the eu must be much more firm in the face of these authoritarian excesses, by ceasing to finance this regime. let's not be complicit. the promise of 2011 must be kept. constitution, freedom and democracy.
on behalf of the id group. mr. president, madam, the promise of 2011 has brought this country to the brink of chaos, to the brink of chaos where ennahdha and the islamist movements have brought it. president kaïs saïed was simply wrong in the last few days when he said that to reside in tunisia one had to have papers and be in accordance with tunisian law. that doesn't make him a racist at all. the question now is whether the arrest of mr boutar, the director of a tunisian radio station, who is charged with money laundering, should be reviewed. the european parliament is therefore able to know whether he is guilty or not a few weeks after his arrest. i admire anyone who has that ability. it is hard to believe that the european parliament would be enlightened by something like a divine light, enabling it to know which judicial decisions are well founded and which are not. it is therefore not surprising that tunisia will be plotting our interference as morocco and egypt before it. it seems that parliament wants to organise our final break with all the mediterranean powers. so yes, i say, we must now accompany tunisia on its road to recovery. when you see the economic situation that ennahda left the country in, that's the priority.
madam president, to save bees and farmers, and i would add consumers, we must reduce pesticides, which requires replacing them with agro-ecological techniques such as crop mixing and extended rotation to limit the development of pests; restoring the bush to promote useful predators; biocontrol to promote the natural enemies of pests and using plant biopesticides or pheromone compounds, or service plants to control insects and parasitic fungi or weeds. these techniques exist but are nevertheless expensive. they are therefore in principle eligible for aid under the new common agricultural policy. but is the european union, through the cap, ensuring that sufficient funds reach farmers? i have put the question to the commission and the answer is disappointing. in her view, the ecoregimes foreseen in the new cap depend above all on the commitment of the member states. it is a pity that the most environmentally friendly farmers are not supported financially. yet it is the survival of the entire ecosystem that depends on it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what this european citizens' initiative and others before it demands and demonstrates is that citizens are attentive to the issues of climate, biodiversity, health, food sovereignty and a decent wage for farmers. it therefore obliges us to place the subject of agriculture in a genuine social debate, a social debate on the hope of combining the fate of the planet with the future of the peasants. a social debate to reconcile farmers and eaters, ecology and the economy, man and nature. it's not incompatible, quite the opposite. the commission has also proposed that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000. the scientific data associated with this eci trace the path forward, based on agronomy, a real alternative to the use of pesticides. so we need to take this scientific data and use it to build public policies that will ensure we don't miss our appointment with history. and there is an urgency to act now.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, in the southern hemisphere, more than 3 billion people live under the constant threat of climate change. at this very moment, in east africa, the terrible tropical cyclone freddy is wreaking havoc and the death toll is already over 200 for the small island developing states. the question of resilience, of resistance to climate change is not just a question of survival, but it's also a question of money. and we need to talk about it because it's expensive to rebuild, to adapt, to innovate. and those countries on the front line need more funding with simpler procedures and above all faster. the bridgetown agenda has strong proposals to unlock access to the billions of euros of investment needed to build this climate resilience. but to succeed, we need to bring everyone together: developed countries, developing countries, financial institutions, the private sector as well. this inclusive approach is essential to achieve concrete results. as you said, next june france will host a crucial summit for a new global financial pact. we will then have the obligation, the obligation to move forward together, to share solutions, to support local initiatives as close to the ground as possible to fight against this infernal spiral of climate change. it is time for cooperation, solidarity and efficiency. we have to act. act quickly. we don't have time.
mr president, commissioner, the barbados agenda has the advantage of underlining the obvious unsustainability of a system which confronts some of the poorest countries in the world, such as barbados and, more recently, pakistan, with the consequences of environmental disruptions for which they are in no way responsible. but we must not be mistaken. international institutions, a banking and financial system, a totalitarian capitalism that ignores competition, the market and democracy will not be able to solve the problems they have largely helped create. that is why we are calling for a change in accounting standards which overvalue flows at the expense of stocks. we therefore call for a review of the financial performance requirements which are clearly incompatible with the survival of ecosystems and the renewal of natural resources. this is why we must quickly tax international capital movements which are totally detrimental to resilient societies and sustainable territories. let us take the words of keynes, the first localist: let us produce all that it is reasonably capable of producing, but above all let finance and banking remain national.
mr president, in accordance with rule 180, i would like to table the following oral amendment and i will be obliged to read it in english because it was tabled in english. whereas the protests were initiated by women demanding accountability for the death of mahsa jina amini and calling for an end to violence and discrimination against women in iran, in particular in the form of imposing veiling;
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, animal welfare, including livestock welfare, is a citizen's expectation that must be taken seriously. this is also a major concern of farmers, although some may not like it. it's not much of a story, but first and foremost, farmers love and cherish their animals and everyone in the industry has no interest in working with abused animals. so taking a subject seriously may mean giving it symbolic recognition like maybe a dedicated commissioner, but it means above all treating it seriously. from my experience and from my work with my colleagues in the other groups on the report i presented last year, i have learned that we farmers are already doing a lot of good things in terms of animal welfare and that, in order to continue making progress, we must do so collectively by setting ourselves rules adapted to each species - as you said, madam commissioner - which we are able to apply everywhere, in a uniform way in europe and finally by having dedicated and sufficient financial resources to achieve our objectives. the rules must also be made subject to the standards of the products we import into europe if they are to be viable. so for those who are in a hurry to sign the mercosur, there is still a little bit of work to do to adapt our rules. and then, finally, there is also a need for a little more control over labelling. the health dg will soon be making proposals. i hope they will also be based on serious principles.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 94% of europeans think it is important to protect the welfare of farm animals. in addition, 90% believe that a european animal welfare label would be useful to inform consumers. finally, 72% want information on the use of a stunning method when buying meat. yet animal welfare concerns continue to be ignored on a large scale, either by imported slaughter methods and traditions or by purely economic requirements in a continuous race to reduce costs. this is a real animal dumping. in the face of the ultra-liberal drift and the radical ecological approach that many here advocate, we propose an alternative approach. we refuse insect meal for the feed of livestock and, for that matter, for humans as well. we refuse artificial or synthetic meat. we want local slaughterhouses to return to localism by introducing trade policies where the animal welfare rules that apply within the european union must apply to all imports. we want a blacklist of third countries which do not meet our standards. we reject the slaughter without stunning and the importation of this type of meat. we also support the idea of a commissioner dedicated to this cause. finally, give citizens a central role, introduce a mandatory eu-wide animal welfare labelling system so that consumers can decide for themselves what they buy and eat.
uachtaráin, mhairéad, you are here go fóill, dance to dhia ort. the first is the fact that the irish language is spoken in ireland, and the second is that the irish language is spoken in ireland. thank you. so the recently published staff working document on the fitness check of the animal welfare legislation is an important step in the ongoing review of the animal welfare legislation. new legislative proposals must use the most up-to-date scientific knowledge, and it was good to hear commissioner mcguinness say that is the intention for forthcoming legislation. the eu has had high standards in its animal welfare practice for over 40 years. improving animal welfare results in better animal health and consequently can help safeguard biodiversity. ireland has made significant progress in this regard. good animal welfare is an integral part of beef farming, and irish farmers have been exemplary in maintaining this practice. i would also like to highlight that it should be recognised that significant financial supports will be required to facilitate new animal welfare requirements. animal welfare can be best guaranteed when farmers have the right tools and financial incentives. the first is the fact that the irish language is spoken in ireland, and the second is that the irish language is spoken in ireland.
mr president, commissioner, the issue of animal welfare is one of the priorities of european citizens. one minute is short, so i'd like to focus on the big overlooked animal welfare policy, aquatic animals. in the last decade or so, scientific knowledge about them has leaped dramatically. today it is known that fish have mental capacities that are second to none to those of birds and mammals. yet, dolphins and killer whales continue to be displayed and mistreated in dolphinariums. in spain, a project to develop an aquaculture farm for octopuses is allowed to develop, even though octopuses are highly intelligent, highly sensitive animals that cannot tolerate promiscuity. the development of aquaculture in europe is being heavily promoted and financed even before animal protection rules have been adopted for the breeding, slaughter and transport of aquatic animals. the commission is totally ignorant of the question of animal welfare in the fisheries sector. whereas minor adjustments would avoid unnecessary suffering. we can't hear the fish screaming, but they're in pain. if the commission is not acting, it is because there is a lack of coordination and political leadership on the issue. this is why we are calling for the creation of a commissioner for animal welfare.
so i ask you now, ms reintke, whether you agree with the s&d proposal or the epp proposal? i see you can treat the green and the s&d proposal as a joint one, so we vote on that. i put the request to the vote by roll call. (parliament approved the joint request)therefore there will be a council and commission statement on ‘the rights of children in rainbow families and same—sex families, in particular in italy’ as a last point this afternoon, extension until the end of the evening. we move next to a request by the left group for wednesday that the commission statement on ‘immediate measures to counter the impact of the interest—rate increase decided by the ecb on households and workers’ be added as the last point tonight. as a consequence, the sitting would be extended to 21:00. i give the floor to joão pimenta lopes to move the request on behalf of the left group.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the middle of this month the european central bank set the reference interest rates at 3.5%, after the sixth consecutive increase in these rates, and has already announced further increases. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals for the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. well, these families are not sure if they will be able to continue paying their rent with such significant increases. the commission and the council cannot continue to ignore this reality. workers and their families are demanding concrete and urgent action. this parliament cannot stand by and watch the disaster into which thousands and thousands of families are being pushed. it would be inconceivable to delay this debate, here in this house, on a subject which affects people's lives so much. let there be a debate.
does any colleague want to speak against this request? otherwise i’ll put the proposal to a vote by roll call. (parliament rejected the request) for thursday, tomorrow, the left group has requested that a commission statement on ‘the right to protest and the proportionate use of force in france’ be added as the first point in the morning. the debate would be wound up with a resolution to be voted in april, and as a consequence, the sitting would start at 8:30. i give the floor to manon aubry to move the request.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, a protester with her thumb torn off by an lbd bullet. a roadway that was blown up by a grenade. a protester raped during a police search. two environmental activists in a coma, between life and death. hundreds of arbitrary arrests of young people. a student who was racially abused and a policeman said to him: "i would have broken your legs". a protester who's deliberately being run over by a police officer. austrian students on a school trip, randomly taken into custody. elected officials in scarves, including several of us here, gassed. reporters are being prevented from doing their jobs. that, ladies and gentlemen, is the reality of police violence against the social movement in france. so after the warnings from the council of europe, the un, amnesty, the international press, we cannot stand by and watch this terrible spectacle. this doctrine of law enforcement, these practices are unacceptable within the european union and that is why our parliament must express its strongest condemnation. madam president, if i may, this request is jointly submitted by the socialist group, the green group and the left group, with a debate tomorrow morning and a vote in april, with this exact title: the fundamental right to demonstrate and the proportionate use of force by the police, and of course with a resolution.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, yes, of course, the french are going through a difficult time and, of course, in these times of particular tension, any policeman who is in the wrong must be punished. it does not, however, allow for any amalgamation or interference. and our parliament should not substitute itself for the judiciary, which can be freely used by any citizen in france. but we are not refusing to debate. this afternoon we heard something extraordinary, ladies and gentlemen, we heard the far left condemning violence. but why didn't you go all the way, dear colleague, why didn't you talk about the rain of stones and fire that fell on the police and gendarmes on saturday, in a demonstration forbidden by justice in which you participated. violence is incompatible with democracy and never, never, never, we must not tolerate it. and that's the only thing we should all have to say together. all together, around the police and gendarmes who are there to defend the public force that protects us from violence. in the last few weeks, more than 800 have been seriously injured and i hope you will be ashamed of insulting them here. i hope you will be ashamed in front of them, in front of their families, in front of this young policeman who is today on a hospital bed after being seriously injured a few days ago. i hope we can all say together that we stand with the police to defend freedom.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, i personally think that this matter would be better discussed and debated in the french national assembly. france is a democracy. we must not forget that. and, just so there's no misunderstanding, mrs. aubry, if there are any exaggerated police responses, i'll be the first to denounce them and also condemn them. but of course, it's still a fight back. it means a reaction to other violence we have seen on our tvs. that's the reality. and violence which is, and this is even more serious, madame aubry, sometimes encouraged by political parties today in france. people who say, "don't listen to the elections, it's not legitimate. what is really most important is popular censorship, not the parliamentary majority. well, you do make gestures, mrs. aubry, but i did, once, look at your twitter account. i have been interrupted two or three times, madam president, but i must still give a few examples. mr. ciotti's office was vandalized: no condemnation on your twitter. aurora berge's baby is in danger: nothing on your twitter feed. the entrance door of the bordeaux city hall burned down: no reaction from ms aubry on twitter. and then hundreds of police officers were injured, no question. i propose another title for the debate, if there is a debate: "violence in politics, a growing threat to the right to protest". democracy and those who defend it. other
so we will put the first request to the vote. a commission statement on ‘the fundamental right to demonstrate and the proportionate use of force’, with a resolution to be voted in april. (parliament rejected the request)it is rejected. and therefore, mr verhofstadt, do you still keep your proposal or do we have no debate? ok. so you do not maintain your proposal. the agenda in this case remains unchanged. we move to thursday. the greens/efa group has requested that a commission statement on the rule of law in greece be added in a joint debate with the commission statement on ‘the 2022 rule of law report – the rule of law situation in the european union’. the statement would be wound up with a resolution to be voted in april. i give the floor to gwendoline delbos-corfield to move the request.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, indeed, the democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights monitoring group (drfmg) went on a mission to greece recently, and we made assessments of a number of issues concerning rule of law and fundamental rights. we therefore now need an open debate in this house. it has been, in fact, a longstanding demand from a number of members of this parliament, coming from different groups already for a long time, because our concerns are serious. in fact, it’s been nearly one year that we’ve been waiting, because on 9 april 2021, giorgos karaivaz was assassinated – a sinister remembrance of the deaths of daphne caruana galizia and ján kuciak, journalists all murdered in relation to corruption. that is why we need on this debate, like on others today, a debate in this house. we make this request with a commission statement, please, because the council will not be there tomorrow. we will also need a resolution to be voted in april, and we propose to be in the joint debate tomorrow with the 2022 rule of law report – and we ask for rcv, of course.
madam president, mr president charles michel, for general macarthur, the lost battles can be summed up in two words: too late. for the past two decades, our dependence on china has been growing. the chinese empire, which was once confined to the role of a cheap economy and low-end products, has now become the world's unmissable power. it is, since we were talking about energy, a mandatory step for the manufacture of wind turbines and photovoltaic panels, which the european union has almost made the only pillars of its energy transition. it has become a leading predator of europe's most strategic companies. the spectacular purchase in 2016 of the german industrial robotics leader kuka from the port of piraeus in greece in the same year are just some of the famous symbols and perhaps the tree that hides the forest. it is a fierce competitor in the knowledge economy and the technologies of tomorrow, from artificial intelligence to electric cars. carlos tavares, the highly respected boss of stellantis, recently lamented the fact that the red carpet had been rolled out to chinese manufacturers. faced with this reality, the time is no longer for observation but for action. we must preserve our public markets, which are now more open than those of china, give preference to european companies in public procurement, protect our strategic assets, invest in both innovation and education. protecting our sovereignty also requires a thorough investigation into the alleged espionage of tiktok, its links to the chinese government and the manipulation of valuable data of european users by hands that are not ours. europe is not destined to remain the prey of beijing. it is our future, our freedom, our sovereignty, our independence and our power.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to illustrate the hypocrisy of the political groups in this house. for example, the very concrete case of the west guyana power plant, a very innovative project, consisting in the creation of a ground-based photovoltaic plant to supply energy to an area around saint-laurent-du-maroni. the company behind the project is a pioneer in the field of hydrogen from renewable sources. this technique meets 100% of the european criteria in terms of green transition and energy independence. the procedures were completed, and as the work was beginning, some activists supported by environmentalists and lfi tried to prevent the project from progressing by physically blocking the work. the only current power supply in this part of french guiana is a highly polluting thermal power station. it is curious to see this schizophrenia for the transition and renewable energies, here, for the bidding and the confrontation, as only the eco-terrorists who recalled it on saturday in sainte-soline, there, know how to do. the whole thing is fuelling the strategy of chaos and generalized zadization. i call for the defence of this beneficial project and for not giving too much credit to the virtual environmentalists we may meet here.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we live in a society of risk, as the sociologist ulrich beck has theorized. the promises of modernity have not been fulfilled in our industrial societies. poverty and inequality are increasing and progress, along with the wealth created being confiscated by the hands of a few, has brought all kinds of risks, including industrial disasters, accidents of life, threats to the environment, and so on. trust is gone. it is our duty as european legislators to restore it to our fellow citizens, and it is our duty to ensure that the existing legal framework is appropriate and as protective as possible for women and men. risk management of each actual or potential, present or future risk must be ensured. in terms of product safety, i would even say that we need to go further. vigilance must be maintained at all times, especially when profit takes precedence over the consumer, when the lack of customs facilities allows large platforms to sell potentially dangerous products. risk management of every risk, whether actual or potential, present or future, must be ensured, and this is the precautionary principle. if a product is likely to cause a health or environmental disaster, do we need to be certain that it is so before we can take action? no, i'm not going. the stakes are real. the lives and safety of european citizens are not to be taken for granted. we have to live up to it. if fear does not avert danger, it is better to be safe than sorry.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the flags of our european partners are flying in front of the guyanese space centre at kourou. but the reality of these nations' involvement in the construction and support of european space projects is far more contrasting. after soyuz left the space center, nearly 300 jobs were eliminated. we should have expected the support of our partners in the development of the space center and these projects. it was to forget the german choice of preferring to propel its satellites from the american space x launchers, even though the european ariane 5 launcher has the capacity to carry out the same mission. our neighbour across the rhine has always preferred to support its interests, aware that whatever happens, the european union will be beneficial to it. how can we not be skeptical of germany's claims to be the european engine when it chooses to support the projects and aspirations of non-european powers? the kourou csg and ariane 5 demonstrate the capacity for european nations to come together around a modern, ambitious and necessary project. i call on germany not to play its own card but to prefer europe.
the next item is the report by mrs peter-hansen and mrs rafaela on 'strengthening the application of the principle of equal pay for equal work or work of equal value between men and women' (a9-0056/2022). i would also like to greet the commissioner and welcome her to this session of the european parliament.
member of the commission. – mr president, today’s adoption of the pay transparency directive is a significant step towards addressing the gender pay gap in the european union and increasing women’s economic and financial independence. equal pay between women and men for equal work or work of equal value is a right enshrined in the treaty and contributes towards the fundamental principle of gender equality in the european union. despite the eu right and our efforts, the gender pay gap has, for decades, remained a persistent problem, with women in the eu earning an average of 13% less than men. while the gender pay gap has many causes, a large part of it is due to pay discrimination and gender bias. we cannot allow women to be paid less for doing the same work or work of equal value as men. we cannot allow women to be discriminated against in the workplace because of our gender. we cannot continue undervaluing women’s contribution on the labour market compared to men. pay discrimination is often the result of an undervaluation of work done by women or of unconscious bias and deeply rooted gender stereotypes. they all continue to persist in our society, and because of the current lack of pay transparency, they often go unnoticed. the pay transparency directive is a crucial tool in our fight for gender equality. this new legal framework will trigger a culture change in the workplace across the union. it will require employers to provide information on average pay levels, broken down by gender for all workers performing the same job or work of equal value. and this will enable workers to identify and challenge any pay discrimination based on sex. the directive will also require employers with more than 100 workers to publish information on the gender pay gap in their organisation. it will increase transparency and accountability and encourage employers to take action to close the pay gap. having the information on pay or gender pay gaps is not enough, of course. workers must also have the possibility to enforce their right to equal pay if they believe they are being discriminated. this is why the directive provides for stronger enforcement mechanisms. for instance, the directive will ensure that victims of pay discrimination can be represented in court by relevant associations and bodies, such as equality bodies. it will also ensure better compensation, shift the burden of proof and set minimum standards for limitation periods. i draw your attention to a transposition period of three years for the entry into application of the new rules on pay transparency. during the negotiations, the commission underlined that this longer period – a deviation from a standard two—year transposition period – should not be seen as a precedent. it only aims at ensuring that employers will have non—discriminatory pay structures in place, so as to ensure full application of the new rules at the time of transposition. a commission statement to this effect was included in the minutes of the meeting of member states’ deputy permanent representatives when the political agreement was endorsed on 21 december of last year. i thank the european parliament, especially samira, kira and the others who you mentioned, for the continued support and determination to combat gender pay, gender—based pay discrimination. your commitment to gender equality has been invaluable in the development and negotiation of this legislation. the adoption of the pay transparency directive will be a significant achievement in our fight for gender equality. it is a step towards a europe where women in all their diversity can thrive equally.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not we're closing the pay grids. this is actually a historic day, because this directive, the transparency directive, is going to change people's personal lives, david's, anna's, kim's, because it actually affects the lives of all of us. after years of negotiations and hard arguments, we have this agreement on the pay transparency directive. it is a fundamental component, a building block, to make the labour market more equitable for women. it is an important step, which is a big concern for me as a trade unionist and feminist, and one that i am very proud of, and proud to have worked with this wonderful, constructive team to develop this directive. i am very pleased that this longstanding social democratic demand has become a reality. we, the social democrats, said to the president of the commission at the beginning of the legislature: we need, we want this directive. and now she's here, thanks to this great collaboration so thank you, kira, samira. all women workers have the right to receive information on an annual basis on the average wage of men and women doing the same work and of equal value. this disclosure and transparency will help to end the systematic underpayment of women. the reward includes other goodies such as company cars, food stamps, and so forth. because often the salary is the same on paper, but with such additional benefits, it is actually different. women will be better able to know how much they are entitled to, and with the reversal of the burden of proof and safeguards, they will be better able to enforce it. the ban on confidentiality clauses is also of course central, so that all employees can talk openly about their pay and with whomever they want, especially, of course, with works councils and trade unions. the secrecy is over. everyone deserves what they deserve.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, 13% is the gender pay gap across the european union. this figure, it symbolizes all the disparities, the cut-off careers, the difficult daily lives. and the european union will put an end to this anachronistic difference. we owe this result to the negotiating teams kira, samira, thank you, and congratulations! , and especially to sylvie brunet, who cannot be here today. his fight is our fight, and i want to take it to the house. a fight for equal pay, because pay differentials are no longer acceptable and this is a fact we will be able to change. a fight for emancipation, because it is also about financial independence, and we will guarantee this need. a fight for inclusion, because, at a time when women's rights are declining in the european union, with this directive we will ensure that companies also take on their full responsibilities in building this fight for equality between women and men.
mr president, this report is like most of the texts we vote on in the european parliament: it has laudable objectives, but often disconnected from reality. we cannot judge a text by its title; we must evaluate it in its entirety. how are we going to explain to our business leaders who are struggling to recover from the covid-19 pandemic and who are being swept away by the inflation of commodity prices that we are now going to crush them under administrative paperwork? you claim to protect our european smes while trying to impose ever more standards on them. publication of information, production of reports of all kinds or shifting the burden of proof to the employer. we shall abstain on this text because, while we support and hope to achieve this objective of equal pay for men and women, we cannot accept that our employers are the victims of such decisions.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, brussels' crusade to impose its own conception of the rule of law on the whole of the european union is gaining momentum. while there is no legal basis and no truly legal definition, the notion is used by the commission and parliament to criticise countries that reject the 'immigrationist', 'wokist' and falsely progressive ideology. it is also used to impose not federalism but the imperialism of a supra-european union. this is not new. what is important is that the european commission, in its third annual rule of law report, makes what it calls 'recommendations to member states', but which are in fact real obligations. france, on the other hand, is largely spared by the commission, despite its serious breaches of the rule of law. brussels is obviously unaware that its minister of justice is being questioned and referred, with charges to support it, to the court of justice of the republic to be tried there. brussels is also silent when the same minister insults the national representation by making several gestures of respect to members of the french parliament in the middle of a sitting. silence again when the president of the republic inadmissibly bypasses parliament during the pension reform and the health crisis, thus causing chaos in france. as for the european commission, has it not been the one that has given itself powers, in defiance of the european treaties, in favour of the health crisis and the recent international crises? is it not the same one which, while calling for transparency from the states, at the same time refuses to communicate the exchanges between its own president and the ceo of pfizer? the rule of law is therefore a very variable geometry depending on the political affinities with the countries concerned, and we do not want that.
madam president, this is a point of order on the basis of rule 10 on the conduct of our debates: yesterday mr verhofstadt called me out on my name. apart from the fact that he has... (cries in the chamber) colleagues! may i speak in this house? that is your vision of democracy: we cannot speak in this house! (the president declared the order to be repealed) thank you, madam president. so mr verhofstadt has named me. apart from the fact that he obviously spends a lot of time on my twitter account - and i thank him in passing for his publicity - these slanderous accusations are unbearable, madam president. mr verhofstadt, you have the right to support a strategy of maintaining order in france and to find it normal that protesters are mutilated, disoriented or put into a coma. but we have the right here in the european parliament, in this house, to warn of these deviations, as the council of europe and the united nations special rapporteur have done before us. you know, my political family has never advocated violence, so i remind mr verhofstadt that by insulting me he is insulting our european parliament... (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, i am doubly surprised. firstly, i am surprised because i do not know whether we will have a debate every time you, mr weber, give an interview in the corriere della sera or every time mrs meloni places an order at the ppe. but i am also surprised that the left is falling into the trap and making a counterproposal at the very moment when we are about to validate the interinstitutional mandates for serious negotiations on this subject. the position of my group is well known to all of you: responsibility and solidarity. but the responsibility is first to negotiate this text to settle the issue of immigration in europe. so for these reasons, madam president, we believe that these debates are not welcome today in this house, that the time is right for interinstitutional negotiations and for the issue of immigration in europe to be settled. and so we shall vote against both the proposals from the left and the right.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express the wish, on behalf of myself and my group, that we should vote in support of this motion for a resolution as massively as possible, perhaps unanimously. let's dream it out. because 25 years in prison for a crime of opinion, a desire at the highest level of the state that a political prisoner should not leave prison alive, we cannot accept it, this parliament must not accept it.
the committee on agriculture has drawn up an opinion. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this regulation on forestry is indeed ambitious and has respectable objectives. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that the commission has already made a number of proposals. the member state its ministry in the european union has last week issued an official call to farmers to put all building investments on ice, to stop building new buildings for the time being because article 9 is so vaguely written that it is not known at the moment in that member state whether any farm will be allowed to be built from this day forward or, in fact, whether it would be allowed to build any new cattle stalls, any new building for more than two years. this is a completely intolerable situation for farmers who need clear information and understanding of what is expected of them, so i really hope and expect, commissioner kyriakides, that this matter will be clarified by the commission as soon as possible so that we can get clarity. this applies to other member states as well, not just finland, which i have mentioned.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, madam kyriakides, first of all, i have to say that i was not the shadow of this legislation. the shadow actually jumped ship. it would probably have been better if he had jumped ship before and then we could have had the discussion about the file. but first, this is, of course, a very important legislation and an issue we will certainly come back to in future years. second, this doesn’t mean that deforestation is something easily done. the first risk we are actually running is the white man’s burden risk, because we are again telling formerly colonised countries what they should and shouldn’t be doing. and that doesn’t always land very elegantly. fourth, in a country where 75 % of the land area is defined as forest, almost any new building is requesting forest to be cut. this leads to a situation where a milk farmer with a new shed will be subject to deforestation rules. he can sell the milk but the cows he’s obliged to slaughter; the animals and the transport of the carcasses to the incineration will be done on his own account. and this is something my colleague already referred to. this is not actually acceptable.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the forests are protected, and that the forests are protected. it is therefore very important that this deforestation law be adopted so that soybeans and beef which have led to deforestation can no longer be imported. unfortunately, corn, pork and chicken are still allowed to be imported, even if forests have been cut down. the party for the animals wants this exception out of the law as soon as possible. no more imports of products for which forests have been cut down. finally, the mercosur agreement, the trade agreement with latin america. this will make the fight against deforestation by this law a wash. the netherlands have already said that this trade agreement will not be concluded as long as agriculture is part of it. i would like to hear the commissioner's reaction to this.
mr president, commissioner, i welcome today the result achieved by the co-legislators on the zero deforestation regulation. it was urgent and it is urgent to put a stop, now, to the wild and uncontrolled deforestation. in the last decade alone, more than a hundred million acres of forest have been burned. it's time to say enough. biodiversity, the conservation of ecosystems, as well as indigenous populations must be defended at all costs. this regulation is indeed a step in the right direction, but more needs to be done on the effectiveness of controls. and we hope that, as from the next review, the percentage and minimum thresholds of controls to be carried out by the public authorities will be increased, because there is a high risk that our consumers will never again make informed choices, because we do not want to frustrate the expectations of these ambitious objectives by not carrying out the necessary controls.
mr president, the problem is well known. for too long we have pursued a policy of too much hypocrisy, economically and in our trade policy. at the beginning of this legislature - it seems a while ago - we in the committee on international trade and in this parliament put the mercosur agreement on hold. we said: we are not going to go through with this and we have fought very hard to make the trade policy and the tsd chapter (on trade and sustainable development) in the trade agreement more sustainable. so today is a big day. it is a good day because this instrument is a very important part of it. the importance of this cannot be underestimated. our trade policies alone are responsible for over 16% of global deforestation. you cannot, on the one hand, have a tough climate policy for your own european union and allow all those products on our market that just drive that deforestation. so important: let's really continue to support this. i am a strong supporter of further tightening on products in the future, but this is a very important first step to ensure that our trade policy is made more sustainable. so i call on everyone to continue to support and approve this with great enthusiasm.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we can be very proud to vote for this text, which is a world first. we can be proud first of all as the european parliament, since it was largely we who took the initiative of this text two years ago and who pushed the commission to act, the member states to accept. so now, tomorrow, we have the opportunity to finally vote on the first law in the world that will end imported deforestation. the second reason for pride is that we owe it to the europeans. all the opinion polls show that europeans do not want to contribute to deforestation, but that they were not able to know, when they had a cup of coffee in the morning, or a cup of chocolate, that in fact, de facto, they were complicit in the deforestation of the amazon or the forests of south-east asia or central africa. well, we're going to put an end to that and we're going to guarantee that they will no longer be unwittingly complicit in this deforestation. and that, i believe, is a strong element of european added value. the third element is that by doing this, we pull the rest of the world up. already in the united states, there is a debate about whether the united states should follow what europe has just done. we are using the power of our single market, which is the world's first market, to set the rules of the game that drive globalisation upwards. we can therefore be very proud of the vote tomorrow on this text against imported deforestation.
mr president, the decision we are adopting today is historic. it's a huge step forward for the world's forests, the climate, biodiversity, but also for human rights and, it should be remembered, the regulation of a mad economy. because the laws of economics are not above the laws of nature. today, the european union is responsible for 16% of deforestation through products such as soybeans and cocoa. and so our responsibility is to ensure that europeans do not contribute to the destruction of forests every time they go shopping. i really want to thank my colleagues, the rapporteur and the fictitious rapporteurs. in view of parliament's ambition, it is true that the trilogues have not always been easy. we can be proud of the fact that we have integrated additional products such as rubber or printed paper and have also obtained stronger penalties for companies that do not comply with their obligations. we will remain vigilant as it is essential that this text be extended to have an impact on fragile ecosystems such as mangroves, to include other products such as maize or to integrate financial actors who finance many projects leading to deforestation. in two years, some forests will have reached an ecological point of no return. it's an emergency. (speaker agrees to reply to a blue card)
the answer is 'blue card'. well, that depends, my dear colleague. there are agricultural organizations in europe and around the world who regret that we are passing this legislation. why would you do that? well, simply because a great many practices consist precisely in deforesting, destroying ecosystems which are the lungs of the world, the places where a certain number of people live, in order to be able to exploit products, either agricultural products, often intensive agriculture, with a lot of pesticides, dangerous products, or, more often, to raise livestock, livestock which very often ends up on our plates, since this is the subject of the regulation we are adopting today. and that must also mean that we in europe must reduce our meat consumption, change our practices. but a number of farmers around the world are equally excited that we are helping them protect the ecosystems on which their lives depend.
mr president, between palm oil, soya and beef, the european union's imports account for 16% of deforestation linked to world trade. what was the result? we are the second largest cause of tropical forest destruction in the world. to give an idea, the area of soya beans covered by these imports is the area of france, germany, belgium and the netherlands combined. the deforestation regulation you are presenting here is going in the right direction. unfortunately, it is faced with enormous contradictions and serves as a cover for the european commission's harmful environmental activities. for years, the european union has been multiplying trade agreements with countries around the world against the interests of the environment. how can we not think, for example, of the one with mercosur which, in addition to killing our economy and our farmers, will accelerate deforestation in south american countries. in the face of this threat, we must categorically reject all those commercial logic which destroys people, natural resources and, more broadly, the environment. in return, europe must preserve forests by ensuring rational exploitation that will guarantee the sustainability of all natural ecosystems.
mr president, forests, particularly the large tropical and subtropical forests, which are mostly located in developing countries, are ecosystems essential to the balance of the planet and to the existence of mankind, influencing the water cycle, the weather regulation and as a guarantor of biodiversity. the degradation of forests, and especially deforestation, has objective causes, ranging from harmful forest management policies to commercial exploitation or agribusiness itself. the european union cannot shake off responsibility for deforestation with its common policies, which themselves damage the forests of the member states, or with the free trade agreements it concludes, seeking to gain a dominant position over the natural resources of third countries and placing the profits of multinationals above the interests of the people. the protection of forest ecosystems should safeguard, promote and encourage models of participatory and community management and exploitation, such as the portuguese baldios, promote sustainable production without deforestation, support small and medium-sized producers with better prices paid for production and regulate international trade.
mr president, commissioner, it is important that the production methods and origin of products on the european market be examined, for example, in relation to products which have caused extensive deforestation in rainforests. despite the good start of the regulation, i cannot support the result of the negotiations. firstly, the application of the legislation as from 2021 is indeed questionable and unfair from the point of view of legal certainty. moreover, as already mentioned, over 75 percent of finland's land is forested, and almost every new building inevitably requires some felling of trees. at the same time, large areas of forest are being cleared, for example, under wind farms, public buildings or road infrastructure, which are important in their own right. all of these cause deforestation, but one is put on the unequal footing and one is punished. indeed, in finland, the ministry of agriculture and forestry has already sent a press release calling on beef and milk producers to freeze their investments, as the impact of the legislation on the sector is still unclear at this stage. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the speaker agreed to answer the question on the blue card)
the blue card speech. mrs katainen, you have been very welcome here for this legal certainty and for the fact that this is backward, but also for the fact that it cannot be possible to bring individual buildings onto the premises. but do you also see in this overall picture that forestry must also be applied at home to products imported from europe, that is, how could this have been achieved in your opinion in such a way that it reduced forestry globally and we also did our homework?
reply to the blue card speech. thank you for asking. of course, when it comes to large-scale deforestation, i am speaking specifically of the global rainforest. i am not talking about the country which is the most forested in europe, with 75% of its land covered by forests. i would not focus on that, but i would focus on the fact that there is a long list of products from outside europe that actually cause deforestation, and their trade in europe must be stopped.
mr president, none of us are in favour of deforestation. trees and forests are the lungs of the planet, and we all need to breathe. we need to promote revitalization, restoration of forests and conservation of diversity and climate improvement. but not just by foolishly declaring national parks, for example, but also by managing the forest properly. and in the forest, and with the forest, there are people, and we have to think about them first when we pass any legislation. for example, when we pass legislation on energy efficiency in buildings and ban the use of fossil fuel energy, we are effectively banning gas heating, and the people who are poorer and live in these forested areas need to deal with their heating, and so they often use wood. also, the current pressure to limit nuclear power will result in a shortage of electricity and people will again be heating more with wood. we must therefore be aware that when we adopt any legislation, we must think sensibly, we must perceive all the implications, and above all we must think of the people who will use it.
mr president, i consider it very important that we have managed to reach agreement on this deforestation regulation, and i would also like to commend the work of the czech presidency, which has helped us to be able to vote on this agreement and thus support the fight against deforestation. finally, it is not just the fight against deforestation within the european union that is important, but it is also important that countries outside the european union get involved. this means that we will protect forests and woodlands outside the european union and that goods that should be grown in these territories and imported from them will be prohibited from being placed on the european market. palm oil, soybean, cocoa, rubber, wood, cattle have already been listed. we are simply aware of the major impact of deforestation on the fight against climate change, and i therefore welcome this agreement.
mr president, i would like to commend the rapporteur for his role in this regulation, because he has done a great job. i myself was the rapporteur of legislation, or rather, only opinions, that went to the protection of the world's original forests. i think we have come a long way in those two years, and i would like to thank the european parliament for its role, because we have agreed on those products that should be traceable, that should not contribute to deforestation. but the tasks that remain for us to accomplish are certainly twofold. how do we ensure that this regulation is enforced? that is: how do we actually protect the consumer so that he knows that in the morning, when he drinks his coffee or his chocolate, he is not actually participating in deforestation? and the second challenge that we have is the question of how we can still find partners in the world, because that is also the question for the united states of america. we have to support presidents who don't participate in deforestation, like lula da silva and others. we need to find partners around the world to enforce these environmental standards.
mr. chairman, please. dear colleagues and colleagues! forests are our lungs, so how we treat them is very important. and i agree that we should not import crops from countries that are over-deforesting and mismanaging them, because that is damaging to our planet and ultimately to ourselves. but it often happens that the regulations are such that they also harm our farmers, and that is why i often hear in my country that organic farming will no longer be possible because everything will be banned: pasturing, fertilizing, mowing grass until july and so on. so the people who make these proposals look like they have no farming experience. but i agree that we must not allow this excessive contraction and buy products from these countries that are harmful to our agriculture and also to our economy.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for your interventions and your actions today. back in 2020, the european parliament called for regulatory action on the demand side to address deforestation. a mere two and a half years later, you are now voting on a text. and this speech shows broad ambition and a widespread sense of urgency. the new regulation may not reflect every aspect of what you wanted to see, but this is the nature of a compromise text. many of the key requests of parliament have been reflected and they help improve the text. and the result is a truly ambitious piece of legislation. there is the potential here to make a significant difference in our joint fight against deforestation and forest degradation. and the key will be the effective implementation on the ground. and for that, i do count on your positive vote and on your continued engagement.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i thank all the colleagues who have spoken today, because it is also a strong sign of the importance of this subject and that we at least share the objective one hundred per cent between the various political groups. i think that was the consensus, because we kept the six groups that had worked together on board until the end. i think that is a very, very strong sign of what we are really like in this parliament. i also noticed today that almost half of the speakers are from finland and that there may be some clarification that we should really use now to clarify things. so it's clear in any case: there is no retroactivity, because we are now setting a date, december 31, 2020, which stands. that means we're not going back any further. and we have to ask ourselves very clearly: is this instrument already perfect? probably not. you have to admit that. that is why there are three different revision clauses. one after a year, where we'll see if it's possible to include other forested areas in the scope. we have a second one after two years and another after five years to get this necessary fine-tuning and also to solve the problems that several of you have mentioned. i think that if a finnish minister is now advising farmers against any further investment at all, then perhaps he should read the text a little more carefully, because a barn - and i am a farmer's son and a farmer's brother - is not ten hectares, and that is something that needs to be said very clearly. in finland, too, you may have to find one or another location, at least if the cow is in a stable. you don't make an investment every two or three years. a stable usually stands for 20, 30 years. these are the realities, including in agriculture. several people said we didn't include that in this. we want to achieve this forest protection worldwide. we want to be a role model. that's why we all want it, and we have an interest in making it work, and together we're going to do it. i would ask you to vote for this very good text, even if perfection is only in the future.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 19 april 2023. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the joint debate on the report by peter liese, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec on a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the union, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec on a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the union, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec on a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the union, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec on a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the union and on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec on a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the union (com (2015) 0205/209 - c05209-014 (cod05209-0227)) and directive 2003/87/ec on a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the union (com (2015) 0205/2021-0209 - c05205/209-014 (cod02) and c05205/209-0209-0209-022 (cod02090) and on the proposal for a proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the committee on the environment, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending of the european parliament and of the council on a directive 2003/87/ec on a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading system for greenhouse gas emission allowances trading within the union, greenhouse gas emission of the union, and public health and public health and public health
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. on july 14, 2021, a terrible disaster occurred in europe - including my home country. heavy rains and flooding have killed more than 200 people in 24 hours. the first victim was a firefighter in my constituency in the town of altena who had just saved the lives of others and then died in the floods. later, when i visited the scene of the crime with the mayor, i was very upset. this flood disaster was one of many signs that climate change is no longer just affecting the people of the small islands in the pacific, but has unfortunately reached us. that's why we have to act! that's why it was good that on this exact day, 14 july 2021, the european commission presented the fit for 55 package. emissions trading is the core element of this package, and ets 1 alone will deliver 25 times as much co2 reduction as the controversial car co2 regulation for our 2030 target. the message is clear: everyone who is committed to climate action - private individuals and companies - can contribute their ideas and will benefit. we have also included maritime transport after many discussions. but there were challenges in the negotiation process, of course. we want to preserve the jobs in industry. we do not want to deindustrialize europe, but to decarbonise european industry. and only in this way can we be a model for other parts of the world. that's why we need protection against carbon leakage. and we have, among other things, introduced a mechanism which gives breathing space to industry, but also to citizens in the difficult times we are living in, when we also have to replace part of russian gas with coal. i am grateful that large sections of industry have been constructively involved in the process and are now in agreement at the end, even though we have even increased our overall ambitions by 2030. we have been particularly energetic about the new ehs 2 for heating and road transport. many at first refused. i am very, very grateful that we have been able to reach a compromise with many from the scientific community, environmental organizations and business associations, which is even more ambitious than the commission's proposal, because it includes process emissions, but which is also more socially balanced than what was originally on the table. we have decided on a price cap mechanism. we have increased the social fund for climate considerably compared to the council. and, much more importantly, we have agreed to an obligation on the member states that the other funds, which are about twice as large as the social fund for climate action, must also be spent in a targeted way and that social aspects must be taken into account. this was also the biggest breakthrough for me overall, also in the case of ehs 1: the funds must be spent in a targeted way. and from tomorrow we have to follow the money and see that the member states actually implement it. finally, i want to thank all those who helped. i cannot name them all, but i want to name a few: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: of course, mohammed, my shadow from the s&d and the rapporteur for cbam; and sunčana glavak for the ets aviation. but more importantly, a big thank you to our staff that worked tirelessly. i conclude, dear colleagues. many said we have crisis, it's no time for climate action. we proved them wrong. to get rid of the dependence from russia and others, to keep the prices under control in the long term and to fight climate change, we need to get rid of fossil fuels and the ets is the main tool.
the rapporteur. mr president, this debate will end with a historic vote because climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity and therefore requires great ambition. the european parliament was obliged to act and to recognise all these challenges, and to offer an acceptable and effective solution in response to citizens, governments and the international community. we have addressed these challenges and with its vote tomorrow, this parliament can close a year and a half-long process. we have an agreement on the table that addresses important aspects for european industry, that addresses important social aspects and above all that maintains the ambition to fight the effects of climate change. and, as we know, the effects are not just environmental. just as the pandemic was not just a medical illness but brought with it social symptoms, so too climate change is capable of bringing a storm to our families, our workers, our smallest enterprises - those we regard as the social foundations of the european economy. it is recalled that while the pandemic has affected everyone, not everyone has been affected. but it is always those who have the least that suffer the greatest impact in our society. it was a priority for parliament then to address this reality and not to let anyone take the blame for themselves. the social climate fund is the product of a year and a half of intensive negotiations and wide consultation. it is an agreement that represents a hard battle with the council, but also an outcome that has achieved a very good balance and a balance that ensures an effective fund. in the social climate fund we have an investment of eur 86. 7 billion to be invested in homes and smaller businesses across europe. we'll see long-term investments like solar panels, better insulation and more energy efficiency. we will see more sustainable transport - investments that continue to deliver benefits for our citizens, that cut energy consumption, that cut emissions and pollution, and that also cut electricity bills. and where necessary we have measures such as direct income support to support those families and small businesses with limited measures until long-term investments can take effect. yes, happy that we have managed to strengthen the involvement of the social partners. i'm glad that the funds will go where they're needed most and where they have the most impact. we are pleased to have achieved a co-financing rate and that all of our negotiations have been successful. i must say that the negotiations were complex, we had many challenges along the way, but we had an extraordinary team to get us here. i would like to thank first of all the czech presidency for its cooperation, the swedish presidency with which we closed this process, the european commission for its assistance, and above all the team of parliamentarians, all rapporteurs, all shadow rapporteurs, and all the advisers and secretariats and members of their support over these last months, in particular my co-rapporteur esther de lange, who worked with me to secure this arrangement. to conclude, we have a significant social achievement, a multi-billion-dollar investment fund that will ensure that the climate transition is truly a social one.
rapporteur. – mr president, as co-rapporteur – david, again, thank you –of the social climate fund, am i proud of the agreement reached? yes. and i thank, in particular, the whole team of shadows, both of the environment and the employment committees, as well as the representatives of the budget committee, who fought their ground very hard. i think we managed to strike a deal that reflects the priorities of all those committees. we ensure that the fund kicks in before the extension of the ets does and that the majority of funding is spent as structural measures and investments for building renovation and zero- and low-emission transport, which will of course have the biggest climate and environmental impact. the fund will target vulnerable households and transport users, including the lower and middle income ones in cities as well as in rural areas. and although the funds will be initially financed through external revenue, at the explicit request of the council, it should be part of the next multiannual financial framework. and, at least as important, we brought back national co-financing against the wish of this same council, resulting in a total budget of eur 87 billion. but let us be clear: we in this room, we might be relieved that the negotiating process is over, but this is no laughing matter. high energy prices are still keeping europeans awake at night, and the social impact of this climate transition is much bigger than this limited fund. to address this, member states and the eu level need to work hand in hand, and spending from our european budget should be much more focused on real priorities, including a fair climate transition for all but that, i admit, is a discussion for the next budget. in all, together, ets, cbam and the social climate fund form the core – or, as a christian democrat, i might say the holy trinity – of the ‘fit for 55’ package. is this deal needed? yes, it is, because without it we would not reach the co2 reduction we need to pass this planet on to the next generation as good stewards. is it enough? well, let me say the following, and i was a bit surprised to see our economic and financial commissioner in this climate debate, but you’re from italy, so you’re from like me, from a seafaring nation historically, let me say that this deal is the compass. we’ve put a mark on the horizon and we now need we now know where to go by 2050 in terms of co2 reduction. but any experienced navigator knows that a compass alone is not enough to be successful. secondly, you need to know where you are at this wide and often wild sea. this is where cbam kicks in. international competition is not always fair, and although cbam is a very important step, the commission needs to be flexible enough to react when the international waters change and more might be needed. and thirdly, a good seafarer makes sure that he has no mutiny on his ship, and we need to make sure that we have no mutiny on the eu ship, that we bring our citizens along in this transition. we’ve said it as epp in the beginning, two years ago of this debate: if the green deal does not provide jobs in europe, it will not be successful. and therefore i want these electrical buses that we need to be made in europe and not in china if the competition from china is not fair. and therefore i want the social impact of this transition to be addressed. and therefore in this way we might feel like it's the end of a long process – no blood was involved, but for sure sweat and tears – but it’s actually only the beginning, because for this strategic industrial policy that we also need, we’re still looking at the commission. the beginning is there with your proposals for the net-zero industry act, but more might need to be done. so i hate to say, but let’s get back to work.
the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is clearly a global challenge and has already affected the lives of people on every continent, and it's very clear that global action and cooperation was needed to mitigate the effects of climate change. when we talk about the aviation sector, emissions from the aviation sector in europe have increased by an average of five per cent per year between 2013 and 2019. while they have, of course, decreased significantly during the covid-19 pandemic, they are projected to continue to rise. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action plan, including the implementation of the paris agreement, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the paris agreement, including the implementation of the paris agreement, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the paris agreement. from the beginning of our negotiation process, i have stressed the need for concrete and appropriate measures to reduce aviation emissions in order to comply with both european climate law and the paris agreement commitments. with the ets aviation report, we are aligning the aviation sector with our climate goals. the commission also notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to achieve the objective of the union's 2030 target. we all know we need to focus on our climate goals, but we also can't let industry take all the burden. we need to focus on preserving mobility and our industry. the epp group, as mrs de lange has just said, has been talking about this for years and has been very committed to bringing the whole process of negotiating the fit for 55 package to a conclusion and i think this is a good direction. we also wanted tangible solutions that reflect a balance between our climate ambitions and supporting industry in this transition, especially taking into account the current circumstances. the same applies to the aviation sector, where we have reached a good compromise on the aviation ets. thank you first of all peter, thank you esther, but of course my colleagues, thank you milan, claudia, bass, silvia, ana. thank you so much for your help. i'm happy that we've been able to provide a concrete tool to help decarbonize the sector by allocating over 20 million emission units that will be available when sustainable aviation fuels are used. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's aviation policy and its implementation in the member states. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not provided any evidence that the airline industry is in a situation of serious difficulties. the gradual elimination of free allowances and the transition to 100% auctioning within the sector is a reality, something we cannot avoid, but it was our duty to choose the right pace at which we would do it. at the moment, of course, the abolition of free allowances was not the solution, and that is why we have taken a decision to abolish free allowances in 2026. i want to mention non-co2 emissions as one important topic in this report, since they cover two-thirds of aviation emissions. it was agreed that a new system for the monitoring, reporting and verification of non-co2 emissions would be introduced. as for scope, when we talk about reducing emissions, i want to emphasize the need for a stronger corsia that is fit for purpose and that has to be part of the solution. and that's why we're putting more pressure on icao to ensure that corsia becomes a successful part of our solutions, because we can't be alone and in this context we need to act together in terms of achieving climate goals. ladies and gentlemen, i want to emphasize once again that we are delivering on our climate pledges, but we are taking into account the real possibilities and we are keeping our industry in mind in this regard. finally, for the european green deal to work in practice, it must become a success story for our citizens and businesses. ets is opportunity, ets is game changer, so let's go.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly managed. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must achieve the climate objectives gradually, firmly and with sufficient financial resources to ensure the inclusion and territorial, economic and social cohesion of all territories. and here i place particular emphasis on the outermost regions - in the case of portugal, the azores and madeira - which, in view of their natural handicaps, must be treated fairly if they are not to be excluded, if they are to be included in the objective of territorial cohesion. the member states have to contribute and do their part with the national plans. and here, commissioner, the need for joint funding is urgent. the prr and prrs must be linked up with the partnership agreements and also with funds such as the social climate fund, because this objective is transversal. or european programmes such as horizon europe and the connecting europe facility. they too must come together for this purpose. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i would like to end with a request: the social climate fund must be part of, must be integrated into the next multiannual financial framework. but it cannot be to reduce the multiannual financial framework: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the work done in two years to finalise the green deal texts is absolutely phenomenal. many thought that europe was incapable of doing so. unable to go that fast, unable to go that hard. my dear colleagues, we have not only promised the europeans climate neutrality, we have also promised them a recovery plan whose debt would not be borne by households, but by the big polluters, foreign co2 importers and all those who do not pay their fair share of taxes. i see that the states are procrastinating, again and again. it is urgent that the revenue from the border carbon tax and the carbon market be allocated to the european budget. we have a recovery plan to pay off. and own resources are the key. there are no more excuses: the figures are available, the texts are about to be voted. it is a question of the credibility and responsibility of the states to reach an agreement as soon as possible.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, this house is addressing the defining challenge of this century, of our generations and also of this commission’s mandate. the agreements discussed today, together with the rest of the ‘fit for 55’ package, will fully deliver on the climate law commitments and put the eu on track to become the first climate—neutral continent by 2050. they form an ambitious and coherent package, which will also give us the means to ensure a socially fair transition and make sure that no one will be left behind. the reinforced emissions trading system extended to the maritime sector will strengthen our domestic carbon pricing policy, helping us drive investments into decarbonisation, including for aviation. the separate ets covering buildings and road transport will allow reducing emissions in high emitting sectors. the revenues from this separate ets will fund the social climate fund, which will help member states addressing the social impact of the transition. the carbon border adjustment mechanism, by putting a fair price of carbon on imported products, will prevent that the eu increased ambition is undermined by carbon intensive goods produced outside the eu and incentivise our international partners to implement decarbonisation policies. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, liese, chahim, de lange, casa and glavak for making these arrangements possible. and let me stress some key aspects of each arrangement. emissions trading is the centrepiece of european climate policy. we put a price on carbon. it will now be strengthened to reduce emissions by 62 % by 2030 compared with 2005, extended to maritime transport and the size and scope of its innovation and modernisation funds will be increased. as part of the compromise, the commission agrees in a statement to implement a number of measures to further enhance the integrity and transparency of the european carbon market. and there is another key point of the european way of tackling climate change. we all know that while the poorest and most vulnerable people contribute the least to the crisis, they bear the brunt of climate change impacts. we have the responsibility of preventing the most vulnerable from being disproportionately impacted. this is why, with the reviewed ets, member states will spend the entirety of their ets revenues on climate projects and to address social aspects of the transition. and the commission has provided an explanatory statement on this. the eu carbon border adjustment mechanism will be a landmark tool to put a fair price, equal to the price paid by eu producers, on the carbon emitted during the production of carbon-intensive goods that are entering in the eu. the eu is the first jurisdiction in the world to put in place such a breakthrough climate measure at its borders. it is already having a positive impact globally, as a growing number of jurisdictions are considering putting a price on carbon. there must be no ambiguities. cbam is a wto-compliant climate instrument to support our increased green ambition in an efficient way. this product scope may be further extended in the future, based on a thorough analysis as part of a report that the commission will prepare in 2025. we will continue to work with the industry and our international partners for a gradual and smooth implementation of cbam. on ets aviation, the agreement brings major advantages, including financial support for airlines using sustainable aviation fuels, a monitoring, reporting and verification system for non—co2 emissions, and more transparency of emissions data for international flights. the agreement is also historic for the shipping sector, which will be included under the ets by 2024. a new separate emission trading system covering road transport and buildings will start from 27. it could contribute to 45 % of the additional emission reductions compared to current policy in 2030. there will be a smooth and gradual start with safeguards for households in case prices exceed certain thresholds or if market liquidity is too low. for example, we will increase even further the predictability of the price development in cases that the average carbon price over a period of two consecutive months should exceed a level of eur 45. we are confident that this and other safeguards, such as the initial injection of additional volumes into the market or the automatic triggers from the market stability reserve are relevant mechanisms to protect citizens while reducing fossil fuels allowances. and, of course, another key element is the social climate fund. it will address the social impact of the transition on vulnerable households, transport users and micro—enterprises, in particular citizens in energy or transport poverty. it will mobilise eur 86.7 billion between 26 and 32. the commission is making three statements on the social climate fund. one concerns the deletion of the mandatory use of a single data—mining tool. another one relates to the possibility to designate more than one authority to sign the management declaration. last, there is a link between the social climate fund and the energy efficiency directive with regard to definition of energy poverty. president, honourable members, if you support these proposals, our union will again be proudly in the lead. in the lead for the protection of our planet, of the future of new generations and of the most vulnerable people to climate change. so thank you and i look forward for this debate.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, in 2021, the ipcc report was a red flag for humanity, according to the un secretary-general. two years of 'fit for 55' negotiations later, the ipcc's synthesis looks like a survival guide for humanity. so there is an urgent need for action. yet, even here, some people are pretending to ignore the impending catastrophe. they probably think they're safe from the consequences. they're pinching dates, clinging to free quotas, etc. these big proponents of european business are more eager to 'apply a carbon price to fuels used in road transport or building heating' in general, when it comes to making citizens pay for the efforts that the biggest polluters have not made. yes, we must reduce and then stop co2 emissions. the carbon adjustment at the border will help to do that, and i'm glad of that. no, it must not be done at the expense of the most vulnerable. we greens say it loud and clear: the ecological transition is not just about greening capitalism by accompanying it with ridiculous social measures. these rusty bits are only serving to preserve the economic and energy model that has led us to climate catastrophe. the ecological transition is necessary because on a dead planet, there is no longer any competitiveness or jobs. it is up to us to make it desirable by helping companies to decarbonise, yes, but above all by giving everyone the means to reduce their dependence on fossil fuels without losing their ability to live.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me give you a warning. europeans are being held down by inflation and you are about to tighten the noose that is strangling them. by validating the extension of the carbon market to buildings and transport, you will make households pay for the ecological transition. to those who have no choice but to put gas in their car to go to work, you say: "global warming is your fault. you'll pay more, but it's for a good cause and don't complain. just because you make petrol more expensive does not mean that europeans will consume less petrol or find the thousands of euros to buy an electric car. just because you make heating more expensive does not mean that europeans will suddenly find thousands of euros to invest in the thermal renovation of their homes. in this context, the social climate fund is just a bandage on a wooden leg. fighting global warming, yes, but not by making the workers and the most vulnerable households pay for the ecological transition. the european commission itself recognises that this will have an impact on households' portfolios. experts are talking about a 50 cent increase per litre of petrol and this is not the worst-case scenario. some of us here have short memories. i am thinking particularly of my french colleagues, and those of the renaissance in particular. we in france are well placed to know that hitting workers at the wallet under the guise of fighting global warming is counterproductive and creates social anger. be careful, colleagues, not to add social injustice to climate irresponsibility. beware, ladies and gentlemen, because if you decide that european workers are to pay the bill for the ecological transition, you may well find the yellow vest i am showing you as a warning on all the roundabouts of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let us give credit to the european union: its capacity to produce standards is unmatched, even in the worst of times. in the midst of the energy crisis, you want to raise an already high carbon price and plunge the bill for european companies and households. the new carbon market is nothing more than yet another tax on all fossil fuels used for heating and road transport, which will hit the most vulnerable first. the european union does not care, because it wants to impose its pseudo-green agenda on us, no matter what the cost, which no serious impact study can justify. whole sections of european industry are at risk. hundreds of thousands of jobs in the automotive, aviation, shipping, etc. all this for nothing, since the union is already the world's best student. we have reduced our emissions by one third in 15 years, in particular through nuclear power, and we continue to innovate. but our efforts alone are in vain if the rest of the world doesn't follow. the proposed carbon border adjustment mechanism is not a protection and sovereignty measure. this is a new constraint for our companies, which are deprived of free quotas without export counterpart. it's a wet firecracker. meanwhile, we import american shale gas and china is opening dozens of coal-fired power plants. keep on with punitive ecology and you'll have yellow vests all over europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when this parliament was elected in 2019, it was after hundreds of thousands of young people had taken to the streets demanding that we do more, that we do everything we can to turn up the heat on climate action. the left has long called for tougher measures, both at swedish and eu level, to deal with the climate. we demand that those who pollute the most are the ones who contribute the most to climate change, because climate change must be fair if we are to survive. we demand parallel investments in people and in climate change. and this fit for 55, the eu's climate package, is necessary. the new instruments are the climate tariffs, the tightening of the emissions trading system and the requirements for shipping and air traffic. at the same time, we on the left know that these instruments are not enough. we would have liked to see more ambitious rules. we have been pushing this in parliament and we have been pushing it in our countries, not least against the swedish government. so we're sitting here with an inadequate package where we know that once we've gotten through this, we're going to have to take new steps: we have to do more and we have to do better and that's what we're going to do on the left, that job. we will do it at home in sweden and we will do it here in the eu.
mr president, dear colleagues, commissioner gentiloni – he’s leaving – today’s legislative package is, as we all understand, the cornerstone in order to address our 2030 goal by reducing at least 55 % of greenhouse gas emissions without leaving anyone behind. and in this regard, i would like to focus on three aspects. first, our targets are more ambitious than the initial text coming from the commission. through changes that we achieve as epp in lulucf and in ets as well, the de facto final reduction target is roughly 57 %. at the same time, it is of paramount importance that it has been provided sufficient breathing space for the industry by maintaining the indirect cost compensation regime in various cases and rewarding innovation by providing incentives for investments. the innovation fund is substantially increased and also the modernisation fund is increased with a 2.5 % top up oriented towards clean projects. the second aspect is the specific facility we launched, the european social climate fund, with eur 86.7 billion. the european climate fund is an investment and protection instrument which provides targeted support to vulnerable households, micro enterprises and transport users that are particularly affected by the energy and transport poverty. the third aspect is the adoption and implementation of the ‘fit for 55’ package as soon as possible by the member states. member states will have to submit social climate plans which will cover temporary direct income support to tackle the increase in road transport and heating fuel prices and also long lasting structural measures and investment in the area of building renovation, for instance, or decarbonisation solutions, etc. only with enhancing our competitiveness in the green and digital sector, while we support the vulnerable households, we can address our strategic autonomy. the implementation of the ‘fit for 55’ package is another clear message to putin, but not only to him: that europe is a global actor, ready and pioneer in the global market committed to tackling climate crisis.
mr president, in our battle to achieve carbon neutrality, no one will be left behind. in our fight to achieve carbon neutrality, no territory and no outermost region will be left behind. in our fight, it's about ecological transition and social justice. the creation of the social climate fund is a proof of this. today our message to the europeans is clear: we will support the most modest, our artisans, our very small businesses. europe will be there. energy cheques, renovation bonuses, aid for the purchase of electric vehicles, financial support for sustainable public transport - these are some of the concrete measures that the social climate fund will finance. some here claim to be the defenders of purchasing power at national level, but they will not hesitate to vote against this european fund. we will not forget that they are the grave-diggers of the end of months. we will not forget that they are the fossil-diggers of the climate. we will continue our fight for ecological transition and social justice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have come a long way, but we are here. we are therefore finally going to endorse the core of the climate package and, thanks to these texts, europe is facing the absolutely historic challenge of climate change. this climate package is both ambitious and realistic, and the creation of a carbon border adjustment mechanism is a testament to this. we made this ecological barrier a campaign commitment in my delegation and we have kept that promise. we have been committed to this for many years because we cannot impose drastic environmental standards on european producers while supplying products which do not meet these standards. it is therefore both a measure in favour of the ecological transition and a measure of social justice which will protect us from environmental dumping. i am sure that this mechanism will soon prove its worth and that we will be able to extend it gradually to other sectors. thanks to it, the european union is finally emerging from its naïveté and pushing for compliance with the paris agreement through trade. it shows that the single market, if it is adaptable, can be a powerful political and environmental tool. today i am proud to be a member of the european parliament and proud of the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'm talking to the emissions trading system. the european emissions trading system is rightly at the heart of the fit for 55 package. every ton of co2 emitted is priced. that creates the incentive we need to invest more in climate action. i think this is the most important tool we have to achieve the climate goals. not bans, not regulation, but incentives to invest in new technologies - that's exactly the right way, it makes sense. the compromise we have reached shows that we want to make the fight against climate change with people and businesses, not against them. how do we do that? the revised emissions trading system is ambitious, but i believe it also leaves industry, in particular, a lot of room to breathe. we have many energy-intensive industries in europe too: steel, aluminium, chemicals, paper, glass. all these energy-intensive industries have huge electricity demands and now bear the double burden of higher electricity prices and the additional costs of carbon pricing. i think it is right that this compromise now provides that indirect compensation for electricity prices is still possible. it is equally important to me that the free allocations to companies should also be terminated only when the border compensation mechanism has been shown to work. i think we owe that to our industrial base in europe as well.
mr president, we are living in unprecedented times. on the one hand, there is a climate emergency which we must combat as vigorously as possible. at the same time, the highest inflation rates in europe. citizens care about the environment, but at the same time they cannot afford to take on more burdens. we see them going beyond the buzzwords of europe, and expecting direct help in their pockets to overcome environmental challenges together. what we promised in the socialist manifesto in 2019 has become a reality with the social climate fund. ironically, the european parliament's procedures have led the epp to write this law governing it. we've reached the crucial moment. money must reach those who really need it. this is not only essential for workers, but also for the most climate-vulnerable living in the most remote areas and on europe's islands. as a workers' movement, we will be united in this march towards the greatest environmental ambition to see that everyone is part of it, and no one is left behind. green environmental transition, with a red heart of socialist justice.
mr president, four texts, four texts to speed up our climate action. but as the ipcc calls for us to achieve carbon neutrality by 2040 and we claim we want to leave no one behind, the question is: are we there? i have only one minute to talk to you about the expansion of the carbon market to transport and housing. your proposal is to raise the cost of heating when energy poverty explodes and inflation runs out; the cost of transport from 2027 onwards, when many people are still forced to use their thermal cars for lack of alternative and when free allowances will be maintained for industry until 2036. and by a market mechanism by definition unstable and volatile, responding to the law of supply and demand, when transparency and democracy should be the key words. the reality is that the way for the vast majority of citizens to reduce their emissions is through public policies, from land use planning to building renovation, and through our ability to better regulate the private sector. the laws of economics are not above the laws of nature, nor are they above the laws of social justice. yes, we need a price for carbon, but a fair and democratic price. let us face it, the total market is not the answer.
mr president, there are times when politics is a promise and when the promise becomes reality. by voting for the creation of the carbon adjustment mechanism at the border, we will finally see the protection mechanism we have been hoping for for a long time come into being. finally, europe is emerging from its naivete and environmental policy is not just about imposing increasingly complicated rules on those who produce in europe, while opening our markets to the wider world without restriction. finally, we will ensure that those who import into europe are subject to the same rules and the same carbon contribution. obviously, it has taken time and it has taken all the work done since 2019, and i would like to thank all colleagues who have contributed to this. what a waste of time these last decades have been, what a waste of time we have seen jobs destroyed, value destroyed on our own continent. but today, at last, we see that first point taken for granted and that battle won. this was the promise we made during the european campaign, that of an ecological barrier. it becomes a reality. now, this vote should not be an arrival point, it is a starting point. we have to keep working. as of tomorrow, we will try to complete what is still missing in this mechanism to ensure that it includes manufactured products so that we cannot see new waves of relocations; we must also ensure that we protect our continent from anyone who might try to cheat, to circumvent this mechanism. the commission is also proposing to introduce a real carbon barrier tomorrow, which will enable all the world's producers to decarbonise in order to protect our environment. this is the challenge that remains. but this first game win should allow us to continue.
mr president, on 26 september 2022, the energy supply and thus the competitiveness of european industries was under attack by a foreign power, which sabotaged the nord stream pipelines. josep borrell said: 'any deliberate disruption of europe's energy infrastructure is totally unacceptable and will be met with a strong response. other such a hostile attack on the security and economic independence of the peoples of europe must not go unchallenged. joe biden said there would be no nord stream in case of war in ukraine. the american journalist seymour hersh, pulitzer prize winner, clearly accused the united states of this sabotage in his investigation, because the attack on nord stream is in fact sabotage, sabotage of the european energy market in a time of conflict. in a word, it's an act of war. our parliament must urgently set up a committee of inquiry into this hostile act and cannot shrink from exposing the truth, however disturbing it may be. our supposed best ally may actually be our worst competitor.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam president of the commission, mr high representative, madam minister, i should perhaps begin with the end of the speech by the president of the socialist group. mr weber, i would like to react in part to your speech, which was more focused on emmanuel macron than on china. the title has been changed a little, but i would remind you that the coherent strategy for eu-china relations is not a matter of internal affairs either. i would like to say that i have nothing to learn from a political party which has been methodically building up our european dependencies over the last ten years, in the industrial, energy and diplomatic fields, and this systematically, including with the members of your respective governments. the 16+1 format, mr high representative, was a rather special format, where we methodically organised the sale of our port and airport infrastructure to the chinese. and it was the epp governments in particular who were fully responsible for this. so what's the problem, mr. weber? is it that the president of the french republic says that we need a european power or is it that we are methodically organizing our dependence on china? what's the matter? what's the problem? i would like to get to the heart of the matter. i think the speech of the high representative and the president of the commission is also there to show us that there is a consensus to see china as a partner, as a competitor and as a systemic rival. and that's all three. this is our european vision of the three. we have to take it like that, with our interests. in this connection, i would first of all like to thank the president of the commission, the high representative and the president of the council for their work, because i believe that there must be a line that dictates our economic interests, but also our values, in our relationship with china. our first concern is the world order, which must be based on international law, democratic values and human rights. i fully agree with my colleagues on this point: the united states is a valuable ally in the stability of the indo-pacific, on which the security of taiwan, and also european affairs, depend. it is on this basis that we are developing our cooperation with taipei, but it is also on this basis - that of our values - that this institution, the european parliament, cannot consider any new agreement with china as long as our colleagues in the european parliament are being sanctioned and as long as the uyghurs are being persecuted. it's both conditions at the same time, both. the second is our interest in trade, regulated, fair and reciprocal. international trade must remain the pillar of our prosperity, but it is clearly creating dependencies that are contrary to our sovereignty. we should not substitute one dogma for another. let us not pass without any reflection from unlimited trade to no trade at all, which is a bit of the us strategy today, which is also worrying. so i think that the arsenal proposed by the commission is a good step forward, particularly as regards raw materials and the development of our green industries. it will complement new mechanisms, particularly in the fight against unfair competition from china. in short, mr president, i conclude here, what are the obstacles to continuing on this european path towards a consensus on a common and coherent strategy for our relations? i listen to the heads of state or government, i listen to our institutional representatives. i see neither the naivete of ten or fifteen years ago, nor anti-chinese politics. but i am shocked to hear from politicians in this house that they think that distrust must be based on the principle of strategic autonomy, the principle of european power. i do not know what we ourselves are afraid of, but i think that if we want the chinese to see us as such a power, we must organise ourselves as such a power, in the interests of the europeans and only in the interests of the europeans.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the council, the controversy following the visit to china by emmanuel macron and ursula von der leyen raises a fundamental question here in this house: what place does europe have in the global geopolitical balance? first of all, let me say that the president of the french republic has committed two errors. the first was to seem to send the us and china back and forth at a time when taiwan was experiencing a new episode of military intimidation. secondly, we should not mention the uyghur issue, even though our european parliament has warned of a serious risk of genocide. but his speech has raised a healthy debate on a concept which we have been advocating for a long time here: non-alignment. so i want to be clear, because often this raises a green flag: non-alignment has nothing to do with neutrality. europe must stand with those who have been attacked, and our necessary support for the ukrainian people is an example of this. being non-aligned also means supporting all those who are suffering and oppressed around the world. europe must also defend the precarious status quo in taiwan, the only way to avoid escalation. but to have a voice that carries weight, we must reject confrontations between empires and take a case-by-case approach with the defence of international law as our only compass. and we are still very far from that. the great speeches of emmanuel macron, once said, once forgotten, have never been translated into action. so, since you speak of an independent europe, an independent europe will not exist if its entire foreign and defence policy remains under the auspices of nato. independent europe will not exist if we are to be left behind by the united states instead of being the preferred interlocutor of the countries of the south. there will be no independent europe if the façade outrages about human rights are hidden behind the profits of our multinationals. independent europe will not exist if we persist in signing free trade agreements which further accentuate our dependencies. i agree with one of my former colleagues on one point. yes, mr weber, you have systematically organized our dependence on the international level, and, mr séjourné, your plea for strategic autonomy would be almost touching and convincing if your group had not systematically supported free trade agreements which weaken us industrially, which mean that we are now unable even to produce the medicines we need on european soil, starting with paracetamol. in short, as you can see from last week's episode, the only effect of this is to discredit us permanently on the international stage. so if europe is to have any real impact, it must be truly non-aligned.
mr president, it is clear that emmanuel macron caused a stir among the supporters of a total submission of the european union to atlanticism when he recently visited china in april 2023. by reaffirming france's traditional position - a position that has been consistent since 1964 - on a single china and by saying that "an ally is not a vassal", he simply took up france's position since general de gaulle. this has obviously angered many member states and all those who want to embark europe on a crusade against beijing. this reaction is yet another striking illustration of the fact that the european union cannot become an independent geopolitical actor. people, nations with such different histories and interests cannot produce a single answer to the world's challenges, and we must, at times, accept this diversity. france, free thanks to its nuclear weapons and its seat on the security council, must keep a different voice in the international concert. this is the whole paradox of emmanuel macron in international politics, who solemnly likes to use gaullist accents in his speeches to quickly forget them and to give everything in fact to supranational institutions such as the european institutions. this is the paradox of the european union, which wants to be a geopolitical player, but which is concerned whenever france takes a position different from that of the united states. france and the european union have an interest in ensuring their independence, both vis-à-vis the united states and china. the american law on reducing inflation is a frontal attack on our jobs and our businesses, and for the moment we are silent. the extraterritoriality of american law is far worse than the soft power of china. the us strategy on semiconductors is also dangerous for europe's strategic autonomy. yes, the european union must come out of its naiveté, both in relation to china and the united states.
this time, it's on me. i was distracted, and i had to discuss something with the services. it can happen.
mr president, china remains an authoritarian regime, an enemy of democracy, whether in taiwan or hong kong. china remains a systemic rival, an adversary of european unity. in recent years, we have offered the chinese communist party control of almost all supply chains. it is time to break out of our dependencies, to produce more and better in europe, to guarantee our safe and sustainable access to critical raw materials, to protect our strategic infrastructure. it is time to take up the defence of our european interests, to fight against economic coercion, to control the effect of chinese subsidies. our legislative arsenal must be used and supplemented. it is time to realize our capacity to decide for ourselves. let us give ourselves the means to put forward a democratic strategy to xi, one which is truly european, truly credible, truly effective.
mr. president, china is a great power, a key player in the world today. a country which the european union cannot ignore and whose cooperation is also essential to meet global challenges. we must correct the very serious imbalance in our trade relations and our excessive dependence on chinese products in certain areas. it makes us vulnerable. i'm thinking of critical materials, like lithium, for example. we want to remain a powerhouse in the production of vehicles, including electric vehicles, and we cannot depend absolutely on chinese lithium. we must diversify our supplies to avoid an absolute dependence on china. we have to reduce risk. i am thinking, for example, of lithium in chile. unfortunately, china is now betting on changing the international order that has allowed it to transform itself in an accelerated way over the past twenty years. he is a permanent member of the security council and seems to have no qualms about russia's clear violation of basic principles of international law, such as territorial integrity and the non-use of force. it's closer to russia than ukraine. this affects our relationship with china. and that's the end of it. the world is becoming more and more polarized. alongside moscow's defiance, tensions are rising between china and the united states, our most important ally and partner. it is clear that we cannot be indifferent to washington's approach to china.
mr president, mr high representative, the chinese communist party is putting the uyghurs in concentration camps. the french national assembly denounces genocide and this parliament too, but apparently that doesn't count. the xi jinping regime represses the people of hong kong and tibet, attacks and threatens taiwanese democracy, deploys secret police offices in our own cities and launches cyber attacks against our institutions and infrastructure. but apparently that doesn't count. this does not count in the eyes of a french president who is repeating in beijing the same mistakes we made in moscow in the past. why? because we'd need china. so let me remind you that for 20 years, we've been told exactly the same thing about putin's russia. we sacrificed the chechens, the georgians, the syrians, the ukrainians, their rights and our principles, because we needed russia. what do we have today? we have war in europe. so let's not make the same mistake again. this is not a question of morality but of realism. the laxity of our policies and the greed of our capitalists have led to the relocation of our production to china. we sold a rival ideology the rope to hang us. it is time to become self-sufficient producers again and to have the courage to assume what we are and aspire to be.
mr president, mr high representative, a minute to talk about china is not enough. it's about as rich and nuanced as a tweet. but it is true that sometimes we talk too much and often we pay more attention to words than to deeds. so, since i have little time, let's talk about deeds. who pushed the european union to control foreign investment in strategic sectors? french. who is leading the way in europe in combating our dependence on semiconductors or raw materials? the french government. who is the only european head of state to have travelled to beijing accompanied by the president of the commission, whose accuracy i welcome? french president emmanuel macron. what european ship was cruising the taiwan strait while the chinese navy was engaged in both unnecessary and provocative maneuvers? a french frigate, the prairial. so i wish that we all could be as clear and as firm as ursula von der leyen on china and taiwan and that we all could be as committed as france to turn our words into action.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i agree with my colleagues who spoke earlier about the importance of energy storage. and indeed, energy storage should be one of the pillars of an efficient energy system if we really want to build it on renewable energy. prime minister jerzy buzek was talking about the gas storage, which we were dealing with last year. we all know that gas is relatively easy to store, you just have to have the right amount of gas and storage. but with electricity and other forms of energy, it's much more difficult. the reports from national regulators show that there will be a significant decrease in available capacity relative to installed capacity in the coming years. and the declining power in stable sources will pose an increasing challenge to operators responsible for balancing and operating energy systems safely. some of these operators are already telling us today, perhaps exaggerating, that it is impossible to manage such complex systems at all. renewable energy is also not possible without a well-developed energy storage system. and this is not possible without upgrading the network. now we all know that networks are the weakest link in many countries at the moment and they should be given the support they need from the european commission. and then we'll have a stable system, when we're not just talking about energy generation and energy storage, but also, of course, the networks, without which energy cannot reach consumers.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, commissioner, we are in the midst of a global energy crisis. the causes are many, but one thing is certain: to be independent of imported fossil fuels and to stop global warming, we need much more renewable energy. this is of course accompanied by a strengthening of our energy storage capacity, as renewable energy is by nature intermittent. they don't produce electricity when we need it, but according to the weather conditions. while there are advanced storage options for electricity, particularly hydraulic, the scarcity of water resources must make us question these reservoirs that dry up our rivers and groundwater. so what's left to store the electricity? so far, hydrogen and batteries are the only options. however, to develop these capacities, it would be necessary to get out of the 'whole market' and the rules of competition, which obviously restrict the states, and to provide for the necessary investments. hydrogen is thus difficult to deploy because its cost is too high for private investment. the free trade promoted by the union makes us increasingly dependent on imported goods and prevents us from producing batteries ourselves, in a context where minerals are mined by a few countries and where shortages are announced within a few years. what you are proposing is not up to the challenge. public investment is lacking, there are no quantified targets on building up storage capacity and scraps on developing real industrial chains to produce in europe what we need. energy storage is indeed a key issue in the energy transition. but to achieve these goals, we need to plan through the public power, according to our needs. without this, we will not succeed, and the consequences will be dramatic.
mr president, to men who transgressed all bounds, who took the path of transgression or impertinence, the greeks promised the vengeance of nemesis. this messenger of justice, plato and the tragedians tell us, punished excess and incompetence with appropriate punishment. we have long since moved away from greek mythology, but on the subject of energy, as on many others, some wisdom should still be of value to us. so while energy reserves and storage are essential, it is the poor and ideological energy policies of countries like germany and france that have led us to the present situation. by stopping or neglecting the nuclear industry, these countries have endangered the electricity supply and contributed to the rise in energy prices. the commission, which has not anticipated anything and has always pushed for more deregulation, excessive competition and denuclearisation, has failed on all fronts. and it is not the incoherent announcements of a germany which is proud to close its last three nuclear reactors, when france, perhaps out of a deadly ideology, announces the opening of the nuclear power plant of the century, which are likely to reassure us. the commission's conclusion is that it has failed completely. and once again, it is the citizens of the nations of europe who will pay the consequences.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, energy storage is essential if we are to realise the full potential of renewable energy. increasing the capacity to produce electricity from renewable sources is not enough. we must also invest in technologies that reduce grid congestion and increase the flexibility of the energy system. we need to accelerate the pace of deployment of storage systems to meet climate targets and rapidly reduce our reliance on fossil fuels. with this in mind, there are a number of barriers that we need to remove: lengthy licensing processes and insufficient investment in network capacity; insufficient maturity of long-term storage technologies. scientific research and innovation are also crucial to enhancing our technological capacity, especially in hydrogen-based or battery-based systems. the strategy we have adopted is a good basis for our future policies. the current review of the rules on electricity market design is the right time to act, also taking into account, and never forgetting, the needs of each member state.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have built a european electricity and energy network and we are continuing to work towards reducing emissions and yet safely supplying energy and electricity to all. and now the task is also to reduce our dependence on russian and other fossil fuels. energy stocks are an important topic today because it is also possible that, alongside renewable investment, their lack could become a bottleneck in the transition to clean electricity systems. in my home country of finland, last year, 89 percent of the electricity was already zero-emission. we doubled our investment in wind power, and now we've also opened a new zero-emission nuclear power plant, so we're close to 100%. we believe that renewable electricity will increase everywhere, and because its supply varies, the energy system will need batteries and accumulators alongside it, and also heat storage will reduce emissions. the commission's recommendations, which are ten in number, are a good way of encouraging the member states to make a careful analysis and to take measures without which they would not have sufficient storage capacity. sometimes it's the permits, sometimes it's the lack of funding. peak demand and supply are part of the need for flexibility and inventories must be seen as a habit. we also have a good electricity market model through demand flexibility and price driven. i am also excited to start working on regulation, the electricity market model and remit, which is to preserve the parts that work and then deal with those that have caused problems for consumers.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, europe will have 42.5% of its energy come from renewable sources by 2030. this is a goal that is almost enshrined in the renewable energy directive and soon in this house, and that we must respect if we want to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. storage is essential if we are to be able to use our renewable energies to their full potential - i was going to say without losing a single electron, without losing a single molecule, which is difficult, as we know, for the storage of electricity. 'the best energy is the one we do not consume', they say. no, i'm not going. for me, the best energy is the one we don't waste, because we still need energy to run our economy. europe needs to strengthen its energy system to better integrate local, renewable and non-fossil energy sources. today i call for a reinforced storage policy with a clear numerical objective, accompanied by concrete measures, to support europeans and strengthen our strategic autonomy. these measures should also promote the flexibility of the electricity system in terms of demand. let's optimize our use of electricity with smart and innovative tools. decarbonisation, integration, storage and flexibility: these are, in my view, the key words of europe's energy future.
madam president, dear commissioners, tremendous cyber-security challenges have emerged in the last 30 years with the exponential growth of information and communication technologies and increasing digitalisation of european societies. the spread of the internet of things and increased interconnections between devices have led to multiplication of cyber-attacks and disinformation campaigns. in this context, i would like to thank commissioner breton for presenting the commission’s strategy to combat cyber-attacks under the cyber solidarity act. this initiative includes key measures that will allow better detection of attacks upstream, enhance information exchange and cooperation between member states and improve the resilience of critical infrastructures such as hospitals and digital networks. one significant aspect of this initiative is the establishment of the european cyber reserve, inspired by ukraine’s approach of partnering public institutions and private companies to ensure cyber-security. it will need enable to engage trusted private service providers in advance to support any defence effort in the face of an attack. it is essential that we keep seeing the european union and its close allies, ukraine in particular, as fighting similar threats, and that we share best practices. to combat the proliferation of hybrid warfare we must create a cyber-resilient europe.
a uachtaráin, cybersecurity is an integral part of european security. whether it is using connected devices, our power grids or the services of banks, air transport, public administration or hospitals, citizens must be protected from cyberthreats. the economy, democracy and society of the eu depend, now more than ever, on secure and reliable digital tools and connectivity. cybersecurity is therefore essential to create a digital, green and resilient europe. improving cybersecurity is therefore of paramount importance for people to trust, use and benefit from innovations, connectivity and automation, as well as to safeguard fundamental rights and freedoms, including rights to privacy and data protection. i welcome the announcement of the cyber solidarity act. the next step after the revision of the nis directive and the cyber resilience act, the proposed cybersecurity emergency reserve would follow ukraine’s approach to engage in advance certified and trusted private service providers to intervene at the application of any member state requesting solidarity in the face of an attack. the goal is to strengthen europe’s collective resilience against cyberthreats and ensure that all citizens and businesses can fully benefit from secure and reliable digital services and tools.
madam president, mr vice-president schinas, commissioner breton, in the face of putin's war of aggression against ukraine, the european union has responded unitedly on the humanitarian front, in defence of international law, avoiding impunity for war crimes, and also in defence of cyber security, that is to say, in defence of our security and our critical infrastructures. and that is why we welcome this initiative of the commission, this so-called cyber package consisting of a cyber solidarity act, an eu cybersecurity act and the establishment of the european union cyber capabilities academy, which is not, as its name might suggest, a purely school initiative, but is funded by the digital europe programme and is aimed exactly at ensuring the necessary training, certification and communication for specialised workers in the cyber defence sector. i would also like to stress the importance of ensuring that this is done in accordance with the fundamental rights guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and, in particular, by the european data protection rules, which are said to be the strictest in the world. if we care about this in the digital agenda, let us also care about this in the european cybersecurity agenda.
madam president, commissioners, we consider that the safety and protection of consumers and their data are essential elements of compromise. threats to product hardware and software and cyber-attacks against european businesses, public administrations and citizens have increased significantly in recent years, not only in terms of quantity but also in terms of impact and complexity. digitalisation has entered into our daily lives, making many activities easier, but that does not mean that it should not be regulated, always in the interests of consumer protection. this package must not be a limitation on research and technological development, and it will not be, that is not the objective. but we need uniform rules for all member states so that we have a harmonized system. the security of digital products is directly linked to the security of consumers, which we always put at the heart of our choices. we've done it for product labeling, we've done it when we're fighting against synthetic meat, and we're doing it when it comes to sensitive data and the digital world, starting with the privacy of each of us.
madam president, allow me to make a comment on the subject. i listened very carefully to the whole debate and i am very pleased that most of us have clearly supported the efforts of the commissioners to prepare this package of legislation that will strengthen the cyber resilience and cyber security of the countries of the european union. we all see cyber threats as one of the key threats of the early 21st century. it is not possible for individual countries to combat this danger on their own. only together, within the european union, can we achieve effective instruments. and the proposal that is being debated here today, in my view, sends a positive message that we are able to move forward together. there's a lot of positive things that were discussed in that debate. it's not just the legislation itself, but i really like the part of the bill that deals with the academy. an academy that will train professionals who will be able to respond in the event of a cyber attack. these are all very important things. to have good legislation, to communicate and cooperate at member state level and, above all, to have experts who will be able to respond to such an attack. it is, in my view, necessary and i hope that we will be able to discuss the whole legislation further, to complete it and that the common approach will be how we deal with cyber attacks.
member of the commission. madam president, thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for your comments reflecting the importance of the cyber threat. cyber resilience is a highly european topic, because in an integrated digital market, as you said, we are only as strong as the weakest link. this commission has really taken up the issue of cyber in all its dimensions. regulatory, first, with the cybersecurity directive and cyber resilience legislation, using the strength of our internal market. institutional, then, with the proposals made by our colleague, johannes hahn, on the cyber resilience of our institutions. the european union is also working on a new international framework, with the dialogue on cyberspace that we are conducting with the united states and the cyber diplomatic toolkit that you know. and then, as regards defence, in the framework of the strategic compass with our colleague josep borrell. today, with the "cyber package" that we are presenting with my friend, margaritis schinas, including with the support of our colleagues mariya gabriel and nicolas schmit for the "skill academy" component. we add the question of operational cooperation and the question of competences. the cyber solidarity act has the potential to be a major step forward for our collective cyber security and i want to be clear here: we are not taking over any of the competencies from the member states. we are working with the member states, not against them, within the established framework, like the csirt or the cyclone network, as you know, but now adding european capabilities to serve the member states, our security and our fellow citizens. i therefore count on the co-legislators now to take up this proposal and to reach an agreement, as soon as possible, of course. europe's security depends on it and the commission will of course stand with the co-legislators to support our ambition.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, just a few words, first, to thank parliament for the quality of this debate, then to say that never before in the history of the european union was as much done at the level of cybersecurity as what we managed to achieve in these three and a half years. i think we should collectively be proud for this remarkable success. this is a european success story. we now have the money, we now have the rules, and we also have the political will to make a difference in the area of cybersecurity. what we are providing today was the missing elements, namely: the reinforcement of our response capabilities, of our operational structures to be able to defend ourselves against cyberattacks, as we saw both within the union but also in ukraine; secondly, we are still looking for the people that would be necessary to implement these new rules and the necessary skills that go with it. these missing elements are part of the cybersecurity package that thierry breton and i are presenting today. let me leave you with two final messages from my side. the issue of cybersecurity is not something for a single player to assure. there is no cristiano ronaldo approach to cyber security. no individual talent and no individual player alone can provide what is necessary. this is a domain par excellence where we need a team europe approach: a synergetic partnership that brings together our governments, our intelligence agencies, nato, our international partners and allies, and, of course, the wealth of what the institutions can provide. the second conclusion – and this is something that is very close to my heart, as vice-president in charge of the security union – is that a security union that combines a level of defence from both physical and digital threats and also combines protection from internal and external threats is no longer a verbal objective. it is not just a wish. it is not just a vision. it is emerging around us as a concrete, tangible reality. and this tangible reality is, according to what we stand for, according to our values, to the type of society that represents us. this is not a shortcut that would reverse our fundamental rights, our freedoms, our values. this is why the security union of the european union will either be values-driven or it should never have existed at the first place.
in writing. – cyberattacks pose an even greater danger since they are used as political weapons, and are widely used by russia in its war against ukraine. cybersecurity should be a top priority area for further action in the years to come under the new political guidelines of this mandate of the european parliament. the cyber package aims at strengthening the operational part of the eu cybersecurity framework. cybersecurity is and must be a crucial part of our overall security. we must ensure a high level of cybersecurity in all areas in our society, including our industry and smes.
the adoption of a robust package of new proposals in the field of cybersecurity is a key step in the european union's overall response to the challenges, opportunities and risks arising from the disruptive technological developments in this sector. regulation and monitoring of crypto-asset markets, including new common rules on supervision, consumer protection and safeguards on the environmental impacts of crypto-assets, including cryptocurrencies, are urgent and necessary. the economic potential of the emerging financial ecosystem and its global character require that the rules of the common values of the european partnership be applied to it, in particular in protecting people, businesses and institutions and in combating market manipulation, crime, blackmail and the unmeasured and uncompensated impacts of co2 emissions. those rules are also key to ensuring the traceability of crypto-asset transfers, preventing money laundering and terrorist financing.
member of the commission. thank you very much for your question. first of all, as you have mentioned, the european year of youth was there to listen, support and engage more with our young people. i am naturally pleased that the irish youth have been among the most active during this european youth year. now, on the question of the different training courses, it is obvious that this is first and foremost through the erasmus+ programme. there is no better ambassador for the programmes that exist and provide opportunities for our young people. and as far as vocational education and training and technical training are concerned, it goes without saying that the new erasmus+ programme has a larger budget and more opportunities. what i am taking away is that we will have to continue together, with the national agencies, to promote these activities, to give more visibility. but it is true that today these programmes exist to enable them to continue to take advantage of these opportunities. i would also like to say that when we listen to young people, they tell us clearly that the european year of youth has given them the opportunity to become more aware of these opportunities offered by the european union. this was one of the objectives of the european year of youth. and in the recent survey we carried out with youth organisations, 35% of the stakeholders said that the european year of youth had enabled them to participate in european union actions for the first time. that's more than a third of our youth. so the message here is clear: we need to continue to promote these programmes and increase visibility and of course, above all, make sure that the european year of youth does not stop in may 2023.
madam president, at the beginning of this year, i requested the organisation of this plenary debate on the legacy of the european year of youth. our proposal, part of the ‘youthup’ campaign that i have launched, was supported by the s&d group, dozens of meps from all political groups and many civil society organisations. we were firm in requesting a clear follow—up for young people, asking the commission to move from nice words to concrete policies, like introducing the youth test and mainstreaming young people across all eu policies, banning unpaid internships, supporting european citizenship education, implementing the proposals from the conference on the future of europe and promoting real mechanisms for youth participation. but what we would like to find out from the commission is: when are these proposals going to be made and what is the exact timeline for their approval? even today, maybe we’ll hear a nice statement – and i really believe we have a dedicated commissioner – but we need the entire commission to support the policy proposals, which should reach the parliament as soon as possible in order to approve them during this parliamentary term.
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to say to mr negrescu that i congratulate him on all the activities he has continued and for his commitment to young people. of course, we have said that the european year of youth does not end in 2022. there are several activities currently under way, there are several evaluations, reports and surveys under way, and we are maintaining our commitment to the european parliament. the commission has decided to publish a communication on the european year of youth and its follow-up, which will be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the european year in the form of a commission staff working document, to which we will include all the contributions of the parliament, the committee of the regions and youth organisations. i think that is exactly what parliament wanted. so before we get to that stage - the communication, i repeat, is planned for the second half of 2023 - we need to continue to monitor the activities, which continue until may, we need to receive the reports of the national coordinators, the reports of the member states, to have all the data in relation to the online survey that just ended with the youth (on 14 april) and to continue to analyse the results with the youth organisations (which would close on 12 april). i therefore believe that we are well on the way to ensuring that the communication, as requested by parliament, contains the necessary elements, namely those which will make it possible to identify, among the thousands of activities of the european year of youth, what will be the key ideas, the key ideas that will remain, as the legacy of the year, and that will continue to encourage our young people to participate and to engage at the level of the european union.
(starts off-mic) i thank the commissioner for her answer, and say to her: but at the end of the year is quite late. we need to get those proposals done by the end of this parliamentary term. and in this regard, the european parliament has also allocated additional resources for the european year for youth of about eur 80 million, and this was included in the budget for these years. but many europeans and even ngos from my country are not aware of what actually happened with the sums that have been allocated. so i would like to hear from you how you actually use those resources. and also, concretely, when the proposals are going to be made here in the european parliament?
member of the commission. so first of all, we have kept a number of commitments. you remember that the european parliament, at the time of the negotiations, said that we must map the different activities, the different programmes, the different initiatives. i would remind you that i have kept parliament regularly informed of all these activities. in december 2021, in may 2022, in october 2022. of course we now have a table with all the programmes, initiatives and budgets allocated. the total budget allocated to the european year of youth to date has far exceeded what we decided at the time of the trilogue. you will recall that at the time of the trilogue, there was talk of €5 million from erasmus+ and €3 million from the european solidarity corps. to date, €140 million has been allocated through the various programmes mobilised. and of course we can continue to provide information regularly - how? through what programme? what budget has been dedicated? - to keep you informed. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules. our communication was not late, as it is intended to be published at the end of the various activities. i would remind you that most of the activities are still in progress. this was one of the demands of our youth, who unfortunately, in february 2022, also found themselves facing a double challenge. and i congratulate the young people because they mobilized for the war against ukraine in a very united way. so now, all these projects are going on. we need to monitor them to ensure they produce results, and we need to see them reflected in communications.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, this european year of youth, full of promise and so important after covid-19, leaves me with an unfinished taste. yes, we had events, forums, but no concrete progress, no new legislative proposals. yet there are so many issues: the mental health of young people, the housing crisis, fair remuneration for traineeships, help with integration into working life, equality between women and men... there are many projects, and we were reminded of them by young people at the conference on the future of europe. young people are in demand. i am glad to see so many of them in this house today. i would also like to return to one particular point: the clause in a youth pact, the famous youth test, which was announced by president von der leyen. it is a tool for consulting young people before legislative proposals are made, but also for assessing the impact of european policies on young people. we really need to make sure that associations are included, but also young europeans, even those who live in the most remote areas. i wanted to know how you were going to put in place this important tool to ensure that european policy meets the expectations of young people.
member of the commission. thank you very much for your question. before i get to the youth test, i would like to stress our commitment to continue working on two issues that are particularly important for our young people: first of all, of course, mental health and then, as you mentioned, paid work placements. on mental health, you know that a communication is being prepared for the month of june. i will of course make sure that the 'youth' part is reflected in it, because we need more than ever to address this issue and be able to offer solutions to our youth, who have already suffered during covid. i would remind you that the european year of youth was also there because young people have suffered the negative repercussions of covid. on paid internships, i would also like to remind you that i am not working alone on all these issues. we're here with a team of commissioners. with commissioner schmit we are making sure that the various instruments we have are adapted to the needs of young people. the last element on mental health, i would like to say because it has gone a little unnoticed: just two weeks ago, i created an expert group that will work on well-being in schools for schoolchildren all over europe. what i expect from them, and what i explained at the first meeting, is very clear policy guidelines that all member states can put in place in schools so that the mental health and well-being of our schoolchildren is protected and ensured. now, as for the youth test, obviously we're working on it. we're following that closely. like i said, it's something we've heard. but first, what we want to highlight is how we can deal with some of the demand through the existing instruments. i am of course referring to our better lawmaking framework: young people must always be taken into account in consultations on issues affecting them and it must be ensured that impact assessments take account of young people's views. it's not that obvious. i would also remind you that we have the conference on the future of europe, in which the citizens' panels have now become a key element. it goes without saying that young people will now have a regular presence on these panels. and we are even considering having a citizen's report in the impact analyses for which we find it particularly relevant. so all of this is to tell you that we're working on it. we know the demand coming from the youth. but i am obviously not the only commissioner concerned. i hope that by the time of the communication on the follow-up to the european year of youth, we will be able to offer an adequate solution to the demands of our young people.
madam president, i thank mrs gabriel for that answer. i wanted to bounce back, because i think there are indeed many topics that need to be discussed with young people themselves, especially as we make the switch today with the european year of skills. we have a communication on the whole of decarbonised industry, with a lot of space given to training. i believe that there is already room to include young people in this reflection on the jobs of tomorrow. i wanted to know if you already made the link between the two years because there is so much coherence between them, and in particular by consulting young people directly?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the epp wants to build a wall on europe's borders. cement, concrete, and a fence. these are the sectors in which the centre-right now wants to invest for the future of europe. all to build walls and barriers. is this the new european centre for law? a group, a party which, in order not to lose the battle of who is the most right-wing, starts defending the most ignoble and useless ideas of the extreme right. my colleagues, walls are useless. history has shown us that all over the world. they do not discourage migrants any more than a whole sea to cross. so, what do you want to do? building a wall in the middle of the mediterranean sea? my dear colleagues, what has happened to the centre-right that wanted to invest in innovation, to ensure a decent income for our farmers and to prevent budgetary shortfalls for some? instead of wasting public money on inhumane, useless and costly projects, i would urge you to come to your senses. this cement, this concrete, this fence would be much more useful in building schools where we educate our young people against populist ideas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my country, france, which is a great country when it has historical leaders, which is unfortunately not the case today, is suffering from a terrible reform, made of violence, because we want to save 12 billion euros. in order to put an end to the chaos in france, to the police violence that is striking, i propose to withdraw these 12 billion euros from the 25 billion annual contribution that france makes to the budget of the european union. france will thus be able to withdraw this reform. not much, considering the €18 billion allocated to the war in ukraine in 2023. the price of peace in france must be paid. what is happening there today is horrible, and the suffering of the people is absolutely unimaginable. and repression is unworthy of a democracy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there is enormous power in the eu budget and together with the member states we can definitely make a difference for ordinary people. but then we have to be able to prioritize, and that determines whose side we are actually on. inequality is a scourge of our continent and we cannot allow the weakest in society to be left behind once again. the eu has an important role to play. joint ventures will make things easier in the future, but it will take time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i'm worried about you. while ordinary workers struggle to put food on the table, the swedish government chooses to watch. it has no plan to meet the crisis. clear priorities are therefore needed. what is good for our employees is also good for sweden and europe. that is why the eu needs a budget that is on the side of ordinary people.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. there are, of course, a lot of concerns about the 2024 budget, but i would like to highlight three areas. first priority: the funds which are used in the normal programmes outside the arf - that is, all cohesion programmes, programmes in the agricultural sector, programmes in all areas not related to the arf - are currently significantly lagging behind in the investment sector, especially in the cohesion sector. at the same time, we note that the arf exchanges projects for the cohesion programme, and the cohesion programme exchanges projects back into the arf programmes. we need much more clarity and efficiency about which projects belong where and why they are being spent under which programme. because this is a lively transfer station. secondly, what i mean by the fact that we are preventing ourselves from spending: the bureaucracy in relation to the guidelines on so-called conflicts of interest is now so complicated and legally so unclear that programmes are literally in abeyance in the member states because there is a continuous total lack of clarity in relation to the implementation of this issue. the third point i would like to make is the interest rate. we urgently need a precise picture of how much interest will actually accrue on the arf and what that looks like, especially in 2024. i remember very well that at the last conciliation the interest rates went up and down very quickly. for negotiating reasons, i had the impression. but let's have a good talk about this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in all our countries millions of people are suffering from the price increases. there are bakers who put the key under the door. there are thousands of families who have to choose between heating normally or eating normally. for many, the situation is really dramatic and there are companies that are moving to the united states because energy is cheaper there and because joe biden is giving massive subsidies. another urgent need: to fight climate change, we need to insulate all our houses, invest in public transport, help our farmers. to respond to the social crisis and the climate crisis at the same time, we need budget, much more budget. and that is why the european parliament is calling for a decision to create a tax on speculation before the end of june 2023. this is the request of the whole parliament, for one simple reason: the financial transaction tax is the only solution, the only funding proposal mature enough to reach an agreement in the coming weeks. and it's the one that can make the most, up to 57 billion a year. today, only france is blocking enhanced cooperation. that is why i want to call mr macron to account in this parliament. mr macron, you say that you want a more ambitious european budget. you say climate is your priority. please accept a tax on speculation.
mr president, in recent months human tragedies in the mediterranean have increased. 441 migrants have died trying to reach european shores since the start of the year. a few days ago, the italian coastguard had to rescue 600 migrants aboard a ship that was in danger of sinking. the european union's lax migration policy has not escaped the attention of smugglers, who encourage migrants to take all the risks, because they know that they will be rescued and brought to european soil by the coastguards or ngos. the right of asylum has been diverted to create a real immigration channel without us being able to deport those who are rejected. frontex, the european border and coast guard agency, is now facing european justice for simply trying to fulfil its mission by preventing illegal migrants from setting foot on our continent. the european union is unable to protect europeans from the flood of migrants and is equally powerless to deal with the tragedies in the mediterranean. the australian example should, however, inspire us. for the past ten years, the country has taken firm measures to discourage migrants from reaching it. smugglers have given up on making the crossing and australia has had no deaths at sea to lament at the height of the 2017 migration crisis. we must help the countries on the external borders of the schengen area, which are facing the arrivals of migrants on their own. the only truly humane policy is that of firmness. the message to migrants and smugglers alike must be clear: 'don't take unnecessary risks. you won't set foot in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yes to asylum for those who deserve it. no to asylum for those who abuse it and thus steal the asylum of others. yes to humanity. no to human trafficking by smugglers. the end, once and for all, of this lawless international state of law. we have to go back to the law. it is the first time in the history of international law that illegality creates legality, that illegality gives rights. we must put an end to this power of violating international law and return to a respect for the law that will guarantee respect for a decent life for those who have the right to come as refugees and who are not illegal immigrants.
mr president, no one can be insensitive to the tragedies that are taking place at sea, whether in the mediterranean or in the channel. but you only look at it from one angle: rescue at sea. these tragedies, which we deplore, are the result of the lack of anticipation of immigration which requires cooperation with the countries of emigration, the establishment of host cities around the crisis areas known as asilia, control of migration routes, the disqualification of smugglers, the prevention of departures. not only do you do none of these things, but you encourage the wrongdoing by giving a reward to those who are tempted. the people picked up at sea are not taken to the nearest african port, as international law would require, but to europe, and you are also imposing on the states to take them in. as long as a migrant has hope of finding a place in france or europe, he will find some to try to cross. your pact on migration is not going to fix things, because it is a call to submerge europe. but it is true that immigration is not a problem for you, but a project.
madam president, it was only 20 years ago that the united states decided to invade iraq. this dramatic decision would produce a chain reaction, the wounds of which the middle east is still struggling to heal. france was honoured by defying the atlanticist consensus and proving that european states could have an influence in the world if they acted independently. since the us invasion in 2003, iraq has been thrown back into chaos that it was not spared in the 20th century. while the western coalition promised to bring democracy to baghdad, the country is still in chaos. today, iraq is disfigured by the aftermath of the islamic state's war. many iraqis fear that tomorrow another war will come and destroy their daily lives. i am thinking of the christians in the east, and particularly those in iraq, who are still living in fear of a new outbreak of violence. caught between community militias and the sleeping cells of the islamic state, many choose to flee the country. iraq has still not recovered from the american invasion, a lesson we must learn in the face of all the bellicose rhetoric that wants to push us to war.
madam president, we are talking about relations between europe and iraq, and there is much to be said, much to be said about the increasing droughts, about the major difficulties in irrigating iraqi agriculture, which threaten the food of so many iraqi citizens. why would you do that? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also turkey that is at stake in the incursions - as so many colleagues have reminded us - into iraqi territory, which are now killing iraqi civilians. and here again, europe could act. the news also reminds us of our responsibility to all those christian families in iraq who are still leaving a land that has been theirs for more than fifteen hundred years. a land which they are now forced to abandon in the face of the spectre of violence that continues to threaten them. i was with them at christmas in qaraqosh, a city that could be a symbol of hope. they managed to return, to rebuild on these lands that the islamic state had taken, and they managed to defeat the evil that was afflicting them. and yet, if we don't stand with them, they will leave this country, and with them, this entire country will be disgraced. with their departure, the middle east will lose a part of its soul. it is europe's responsibility to support these peoples and to tell them that, through them, they are also a part of us, of our common heritage, which is represented in this far-off middle east, and yet so close to us in so many vital matters.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, vladimir putin, at the head of a system where his arbitrariness reigns, believes himself to be above the law. above the law in russia, for the crimes he commits against the opposition, journalists. above the laws he commands in ukraine. the difference with other dark periods in history is the existence of the international criminal court. mass deportation of children in ukraine is a war crime and vladimir putin must answer for it. in this case, the court's arrest warrant against vladimir putin is correct. this court is a valuable asset and i call on all countries that have not yet done so, including the united states, to join it. calls on all member states to fulfil their obligations and to implement this arrest warrant. no one should be above the laws that protect our humanity. in ukraine, in yemen, in xinjiang, in palestine, no one should be able to commit atrocities without being held accountable.
mr president, 'iraqi soldiers have ripped babies out of incubators and left them to die on the cold ground'. this testimony of a nurse in october 1990 has moved the world. there was no doubt. the war against iraq was a moral duty. a few months later, we discovered that these incubators were as imaginary as the weapons of mass destruction. because the crimes against children in wartime are the absolute horror. that's what no one can admit. and i think of all the families, of course, in every country, desperately looking for their children. 'deportation of children' the choice of words is not innocent. 'deportation of children': the deportations organised by the nazi regime immediately come to mind. but if we just said "evacuation", maybe that would be a lot less shocking. but in wartime propaganda, the choice of words is something that is critical. because the first duty of a soldier who finds a child in a combat zone is to evacuate him for his protection. yes, we must encourage the return of these children. and the russians started repatriating them when the families were clearly identified. if we want them to return quickly, let's hold a peace conference.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, it is a real pleasure to welcome the prime minister of luxembourg to our house. mr prime minister, your country has made a very substantial contribution to our european union since the very beginning of the european construction. i would even go so far as to say that if all the european countries had contributed as much, in proportion to the size of the countries, to both the construction and our organisation, perhaps we would have passed a number of steps which we are still discussing. first of all, mr prime minister, i should like to say that you have been personally loyal to the history of your country. you have vigorously defended your community of values at the european council. you did so again in your speech to the european parliament. our group, renew europe, knows that it can count on you to bring our projects, the conditionality of funds to respect the rule of law, the green pact, european sovereignty - you also mentioned this in parallel. we are with you, as are many of my colleagues in other political groups, when you denounce the excesses of viktor orban, the absurdities of the populists. your voice carries, and through you, the voice of the defenders of liberal democracies throughout europe. the european union is the shield of liberal democracy, but we also know its imperfections in terms of democracy and the effectiveness of decision-making. you, who sit in the european council, are well placed to see these difficulties, both in time and in the way decisions are taken in europe today. so europe has certainly shown its flexibility - you also mentioned it in the constitutional framework that we know - in the context of crises, with strong responses on covid-19, on the economic crisis, on the russian invasion of ukraine; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the conference on the future of europe laid the foundations for reflection. my group regrets that we cannot go any further, but economic, environmental and geopolitical urgencies are certainly the priority. i might have a question for you. it is time for us to move towards elections, and as you know, with transnational lists and also with a right of initiative in the european parliament. i know you're pushing these issues as well. so, mr prime minister, thank you for your trust, thank you for your values, and a question: are you ready, and how to go further in our european organization and institutional software?
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, mr bettel, i have a riddle for you. what do tiger woods, brad pitt, the hermes family, shakira, the prince of saudi arabia, bernard arnault, the italian mafia and the russian mob have in common? they all have an amazing passion for your country, luxembourg. you say there's a lot of good people in your area. well, the reality is, they're not really there. because the reality, too, is that we only see their front companies, which are located, for example, at 6 rue eugène ruppert. it's a very ordinary building, mr. bettel. and in this building, there are no less than 1,810 companies, who magically happen to share this space. mr prime minister, perhaps you can explain to us how luxembourg is escaping the laws of physics. the answer, in fact, you know. scandal after scandal, we find these companies, which are really just letter boxes whose only role is to enable tax evasion on a large scale. the reality, mr bettel, is that you are the head of a tax haven. a tax haven that organises a real organized gang robbery in the heart of europe, and which no one can or wants to channel to you today. mr bettel, you have spoken a lot about opening up borders. i'll share it for the occasion. but, strangely, when it comes to the money of the rich or the money of the multinationals, it's a one-way street. he enters luxembourg, but never leaves. the consequence of this break of the century is the breakdown of society, the breakdown of our public services, the breakdown of our pensions. because, oddly enough, the people who are so quick to save on everything are also the ones who never look to recover the billions stolen from tax evaders. so let me conclude, mr bettel, by saying that your vibrant plea for a europe of cooperation and solidarity could move us, i must admit, if it were not often, in fact, as empty as the fictitious companies at 6 rue eugène ruppert.
madam president, mr prime minister, i have asked to speak in this debate because i have been waiting for five months for the opportunity to thank you for your speech on the 70th anniversary of the european parliament. you have given hope to many of us who are tired of hearing from our european leaders speeches so predictable and standardized that they could well have been written by the now famous chatgpt. today, as you did five months ago, you stressed the importance of respect for sexual, ethnic, religious and political minorities for peace among the peoples of europe. i've rarely heard this with the conviction you have, and that you know how to convey. i ask you to continue to use your voice to remind us, as you have said, that neither rights nor peace are final acquisitions and that we must fight sincerely to defend them every day.
madam president, thank you, prime minister bettel, and many thanks to the people of luxembourg for being excellent hosts to the european parliament and to many institutions of the european union for more than 70 years. the people of luxembourg have always been at the forefront of european integration and at the forefront of defending european values. let us stick together in defending europe against extremism, against euroscepticism, against division and against exclusion. let us fight together for european values, for our democracy, for our institutions, for the values of the free world. and let me say that defending our european way of life requires efforts, and sometimes it also requires costs. safety, security and defence is something important to my political family, to the european people’s party, and we have to work on this together. this is why my plea to you, prime minister: battle that luxembourg increases also its commitment to safety, security and to defence spending, as we have all agreed in nato to allocate 2% of our gdp to defence. the people of ukraine are fighting for a european way of life. we should also defend our security here in europe and at our borders.
madam president, mr president bettel, welcome back to the european parliament. your country, luxembourg, has been central to the construction of european integration along with many other countries. today we are a great union, but we need more courage from your country and from many others, from many governments, from the council. on 8 and 9 may, hundreds and thousands of citizens and associations will be demonstrating in strasbourg for the celebration of europe. they are doing so in every corner of europe for a more united and federal europe. it is the new generations who are asking us for quick decisions, without vetoes, on the crucial issues of social rights, climate rights, tax justice, civil rights, institutional change to make europe stronger. the conference on the future of europe has shown the way forward. let us open a convention for the reform of the treaties, which will give birth to a true european integration, while respecting differences. we do not veto the future of the european citizens, we listen to their demands for a more united europe, because otherwise the alternative is nationalism, and nationalism, as we know, is war.
madam president, i would like to thank you. mr prime minister, it is a pleasure to see you here, for the third time in one year, in front of this plenary. i think it's a sign of respect that you're showing our institution. some people may not have shown the same respect for you by attacking the politics of luxembourg, our country, and i regret that, because we are also here to discuss the future of the european union, and i think that the european recovery plan has been one of the greatest developments of our european union in the twentieth century. so my first question to you is this: what would be the next steps for even greater insight, and what would be the next insight that you see? a second point, which is obviously very important in foreign and security policy, concerns the principle of unanimity, which in my view is counterproductive. what is your position and what actions would be taken to get rid of this system of unanimity? a third question, finally, in view of what you said about being close to the citizens. if we talk to the citizens, of course, we sometimes have a problem of representativeness and democracy, because we had, for example, the spitzenkandidaten system, which the citizens tell us they support. what would your position be next year if we were to discuss the spitzenkandidat again? do you accept that, mr. bettel?
prime minister of luxembourg. madam president, first of all i would like to thank all the speakers for speaking and i will allow myself to make a quick reply. i don't know if mrs. aubry is here. because mrs. aubry attacked my country. but i remember, i had the same scenario, madam president, a few years ago, except it came from the other extreme. it was mrs le pen. today, mrs le pen is not here, and mrs aubry asked me a riddle. i have another one: who has been making the same speech as mrs le pen for the last four years? this is mrs. aubry. (applause) moreover, madam president, she is absent when we want to answer. so i'll give him my answer in writing. i had a lot of questions, so let me say this: regarding tax transparency, luxembourg ratified the multilateral convention in 2019. we adopted the minimum taxation directive in december 2022. we are active at oecd level on pillar a of international tax reform. luxembourg is therefore part of the solution to the fight against tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. and we have not been the problem for years, so it would be important to also keep up to date on all the changes that have been made in the grand duchy of luxembourg. i had several questions; i'll start at the end. mr lutgen spoke of agriculture. we must stop thinking that the economy, the environment and agriculture are three enemies. on the contrary: the economic opportunity is enormous with ecology. do some people think that ecology, economics and agriculture are going against each other? we will not succeed in climate change without the economy any more than we will succeed in climate change without agriculture. so let's see them as partners rather than enemies. we need a farming system that works and we also know that we can produce differently and that the citizen, the consumer, also expects us to be careful about what is on his plate. the price is there, and it is important for many citizens, but the quality is also important, and farmers cannot be blamed, because if there is one sector of the economy that is suffering from climate change, madam president, it is farmers. they are the ones who will no longer be able to produce if climate change makes the fields infertile. so let's think about them too when we talk about climate change. several colleagues have asked me about the changes we want to make to the future of europe. there are many questions, indeed - the four priorities, the four chapters... i think the commission is also preparing changes at the legislative level, and we must encourage them. if you ask me, i would recommend not changing the treaties now. i'm telling you personally. why would you do that? because i know that in a number of states there will be referendums that will be held. and i think that today, where we can move forward, we must move forward, we must do it. but to change the treaties today would be risky. this could, in fact, block any future development. let us therefore sit down and see what can be changed without changing the treaties and with legislative procedures, so that we can move forward. you asked about the transnational lists and the spitzenkandidaten. i must say to you personally that transnational lists, if we are to make them, must be transnational. it doesn't have to be regional, it has to be a list, if we want to do it, of 27 candidates from 27 different countries. and in that case there will be a spitzenkandidat, because today we have spitzenkandidaten who are not candidates anywhere or who are not on everyone's lists. so if we want to have a spitzenkandidat at european level, the parties have to agree, there has to be a list that is represented in each country with 27 candidates on it, we have to have a vote for these meps, where we choose who we want to elect, and another transnational european list with 27 candidates, there has to be the labels of the different parties they represent, they have to identify themselves and who elects them. in that case, it is the only thing that can be done, otherwise it is useless, otherwise we will do knitting and do-it-yourself, and i think it will not advance anything. as for the meeting between xi jinping and joe biden, which i called for, i see that right now there are people dying every day in ukraine, every day. the first thing that would help ukraine is a ceasefire. it is my heartfelt belief that a ceasefire is important if we are to stop the bloodshed. and that's why i'm seeing president putin today, and i know i've been criticized for that, but i don't regret it. i was in contact with president zelensky at the beginning and, at the request of president zelensky, i was also in contact with president putin. and i thought it was important to see if there was a chance that maybe we could find a solution. i gave up when i saw that there was no will on the russian side to find a peaceful solution to this conflict, especially after what happened in butcha. for me, respect simply wasn't there anymore to work, to discuss or to try to find a solution together. today, i see that there is russia on one side and ukraine on the other. i am on the ukrainian side and i am proud that in most political parties we are aware that if we are a democracy on this continent today, it is because we had, at the time of the second world war, other countries that came to defend us. i have a cemetery in luxembourg that is full of american soldiers, most of whom didn't know where my country was. they're the ones who came to defend me from the nazis. and if, at that time, other canadians, british, other americans had not come, luxembourg would not be a democracy today. (applause) we cannot accept that another, bigger country decides what the future of a neighbouring country is. so we have to continue to support, and i think today the two people who would have the most influence -- and this is what i'm saying -- for a ceasefire to happen are the chinese president and president biden. i said it before and i'll say it again. as for romania and bulgaria, luxembourg has never opposed their accession to schengen. i will never use a national policy reason to block access to schengen for some or for others. on foreign policy, the grand duchy of luxembourg - and this is in our coalition agreement - is of the opinion that qualified majority voting could be a solution, and i think it is important to move forward. madam president, i know you still have a rather long agenda. for me, the exchange, the fact that i can stand before you today is something important. i am not asking anyone to share my views, to say that one or the other is right. i must say, madam president, that it was a shock to hear someone say in this house that his country was an example and that it should be followed. i am proud that the european union is made up of 27 different countries, different languages, different cultures, different values, different opinions, different religions, different origins, and that we do not have a single mold in which we would like everyone to look the same. that would be the end of europe. i'm proud of our diversity.
thank you very much. thank you very much, prime minister. the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. romania's accession to the schengen area is a right. our country has been complying with all the technical criteria for over 12 years and any delay in accession is a flagrant and continuing breach of the eu's basic principles. that is why we must stop having political governments in europe that hold the european union prisoner. for example, the arguments used by the right-wing government of austria for the veto applied to romania have, in fact, no relation to reality or the official data presented by the european commission. our country is not responsible for any problems in the schengen area, claimed by the austrian government, being outside the free movement zone. even today we see the same opposition motivated by false arguments, which only weakens european unity and sows mistrust. these actions, which politicise the schengen issue and exploit the migration issue, encourage populist rhetoric and set a worrying precedent. that is why i call for solidarity and insist that the subject of romania's accession to the schengen area be on both the agenda of the justice and home affairs council in june and that of the european council, in order to send a strong message of support to the romanian people, in order to maintain the credibility of the european project.
in writing. for the umpteenth time, any opinion that differs from the mainstream is identified as populism, even if it is based on data and studies and not on empty words. on immigration, i would remind the prime minister that there is no one type: the one you describe in your speech is regular migration, which no one in my party has ever wanted to block. the only one we want to stop is the illegal one, which fuels the business of human trafficking and exploitation, bringing capital into the hands of ruthless criminal organizations that are willing to do anything for profit. i would add a comment on the european union's interference in matters of exclusive competence of the states, which i find unacceptable: we have united by defining precisely what the roles were at national level and at the level of the various institutions, and now, with the weapon of blackmail, do you want to force the member states to adapt their policies to those prevailing in the eu? unpractical and ideological approaches, such as those just described, are the most wrong way to respond to the needs of citizens.
dear colleagues, today the european parliament marks the 80th anniversary of the warsaw ghetto uprising. i ask you now to view a short video that commemorates the events of 19 april 1943 in warsaw. (a video was shown in the chamber) today we remember. we remember the extraordinary bravery of ordinary people. people who stood up against the odds to light a spark in the darkest of times. in 1940, nazi commanders confined more than 400 000 jews into the warsaw ghetto. they were targeted simply because they were jewish. by autumn 1942, 50 000 jewish people remained in the so-called residual ghetto, including bronisław geremek, a former colleague of ours in this house, who was just 11 years old. on 19 april 1943, the jews of warsaw took up arms against the enemy. starving women and men took on an army. they knew they could not win. but the enduring symbol of resistance, the power of men and women standing up when there was nothing left to lose, remains an inspiration. the april uprising was the largest armed uprising of jews during the second world war. in the words of marek edelman, whom we just saw: ‘we weren’t stupid. we knew very well what we were up against.’ they did not go gently into the night. they raged against the dying of the light. and 80 years later they inspire us still. so today we pay tribute to those who fell, with the unwavering hope of resistance against tyranny. with the belief in a lasting symbol of jewish resistance against the holocaust. our europe is built on their shoulders. to mark this 80th anniversary, i urge all of you, colleagues, dear members, to wear a yellow daffodil. they are available at the entrance to this hemicycle. they were donated by the polin museum of the history of polish jews so that we should remember the power of resistance against death, autocracy and dictatorship. please join me in rising for a moment of silence as we remember them. (the house rose and observed a minute’s silence)(the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the agenda. the greens/efa group has informed the president of a decision to change the appointments within a delegation. this decision will be entered in the minutes of today's sitting and will come into force as from this announcement.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
that concludes the voting. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
the minutes of yesterday's sitting have been distributed. are there any comments? i declare that the minutes of yesterday's sitting have been approved.
the agenda includes topical and urgent subjects (rule 162) - keeping people healthy, drinking water and soil habitable: eliminate persistent pollutants and strengthen eu chemicals legislation now (2023/2664 ((rsp)).
author. madam president, we have made the planet inhospitable to human life by contaminating it irreversibly, which means that nothing is clean anymore, to the point that it is not clean enough to be safe. these words were spoken by the scientist ian cousins, referring to per- and polyfluorinated pfas, a family of more than 10 000 substances which are highly toxic and so persistent that they will never disappear from the earth. in addition to the global limit for chemicals, the freshwater limit has also been exceeded. rainwater has simply become unfit for consumption everywhere, even in the arctic or on the tibetan plateau. these enduring pollutants are everywhere - in our kitchen utensils, our clothing, our packaging, our paints, our cosmetics, our car batteries, and even our dentures and toilet paper. these eternal pollutants are also found in the pesticides we spray on our fields and even in our wombs. the subject we are meeting today is a serious one, perhaps the greatest scandal of the 20th century and of the centuries to come. behind this raw reality, lives wasted, ecosystems destroyed. kidney, breast, testicular cancers, reduced fertility, immune response to vaccines in children, obesity also (one child in three), thyroid diseases, or cardiovascular risks, and many other diseases, surely, for which the link is not yet established. what are we waiting for to get out of the toxic civilization? the forever pollution project, a european consortium of journalists, recently revealed that 17,000 industrial sites in europe are highly contaminated and that 21,500 more could be if we would only bother to analyse the pollution there. four member states have recently requested a total ban on pfas substances. i want to express my full support for them, but we must act now, not just in a few years' time, when we have time to deal with the requests of these four states. firstly, because, as with all toxic substances, regulation must be made by family and not by substance, otherwise industries simply substitute one banned substance for another, equally toxic one. secondly, because we must avoid that certain necessary exceptions become the rule. if industry thinks that the use of a pfas is essential, then it must demonstrate this fully and reserve it for vital uses, such as medicine. of course, we cannot simply ban these substances. in the valley of chemistry, south of lyon, france, farmers are calling for help. if the soil is contaminated, then their entire holdings and income are at risk. so what do you do? europe must set up a public fund funded by the polluters themselves, dedicated to cleaning up what can still be done and making reparations to the victims. a famous american trial, documented in the film dark waters, showed that the chemical industry was well aware of the devastating effects of perpetual pollutants, and had been since 1961. but she hid them. robert bilott, the lawyer for american families, warned us that the battle would be fierce, but industry must pay. the very fact that pfas contamination was possible points to the failure of our current chemical regulations. this is why we urgently need to review the reach regulation on chemicals. that is why environmentalists want to ask president von der leyen once again about the urgency of proposing this revision, which is literally vital for so many people and ecosystems. this regulation has been in force for 20 years and has shown us its limits. it currently takes ten years to initiate a procedure for analysing and then banning dangerous products. at the current rate, it would take us centuries to achieve the goal of a europe without toxins. it's too long. and when the plastics and chemical industries - 3m, solvay, exxonmobil, arkema, or chemours - are fighting against the banning of perpetual pollutants, it is basf, vci, bdi or cefic that are fighting against any reform of the reach regulation. they seem to have found in commissioner breton a valuable ally, who gives them hope of delaying the presentation of this text in december, in other words a proper burial. so let us be clear: if the commission's proposal is not presented to us in june, we will not be able to adopt it by the end of the mandate, and the commission will not be able to deliver on its repeated promises of a europe free of toxic products. remember that this is 10% of cancers that could be prevented. during the time i have been here, over 2 000 tonnes of perpetual pollutants have been produced. so let's finally be responsible and turn the page on toxic civilization.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, many of you must have drunk a glass of water as you entered the chamber, which seems quite normal in the european union of the 21st century. yet one third of the french in the west indies, 40% of those in french guiana and 31% of our compatriots in mayotte are not connected to drinking water. lack of sanitation, failures, outdated networks and contaminated water are the problems of our compatriots overseas. as marine le pen pointed out during her visit to guadeloupe, the state and the european union cannot continue to ignore this issue. in the french west indies, chlordecone has had a devastating effect on the groundwater, which is now contaminated. in guadeloupe, the state's abandonment of the water union has slowed down any repair of water networks. in 2018, out of 80 million cubic metres of water collected for drinking water needs, only 21 were actually used. the rest was wasted in major losses. this water problem in the outermost regions even affects education. without water, many schools are temporarily closed. the outermost regions are not inhabited by second-class citizens, and their geographical remoteness cannot justify the lack of access to drinking water. so, before trying to save the whole world by interfering here and there in matters that have nothing european about them, the european union has an obligation to take care of the vital needs of our compatriots overseas, which it does not do.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, pfas are everywhere: in our clothes, in our food packaging, in fire-retardant foams, in non-stick coatings, in cosmetics, in plant protection products. these chemicals are eternal. so we have to ban them. commissioner, you have the legislative initiative. it seems to me important to move quickly by taking up the proposal put forward by france, germany and several member states. it should be borne in mind that the majority of pfas in waterways is found downstream of discharges from large urban areas and near airports. this means that, while we must ban these products, given their persistence, we must in any case clean up the waste. and it's not going to happen by itself. this will be done by a voluntary european policy of equipping sewage treatment plants so that pfas are no longer sent into our rivers, into our drinking water. lives are at stake.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, commissioner, i firstly want to thank mr berger and all who worked on this file. and i want to be clear: my support is based on the fact that this legislation brings transparency, protects consumers and adds financial stability. i have no interest in creating a market in or fostering the use of crypto assets. at their worst they are pyramid schemes, are used by criminal gangs for money laundering or defrauding working people, and they can waste huge amounts of energy for no purpose. i see little or no social or economic benefit to these tools of speculation. i accept the reality that crypto—assets exist, and short of banning them, they must be regulated. i predict we will be back here again, tightening this regulation and closing any loopholes left open. as fabio panetta of the ecb put it, crypto—assets are bringing about instability and insecurity, the exact opposite of what they promised. they are creating a new wild west. now, the wild west may have romantic connotations, but i don’t think anyone would want to live there. so we have a responsibility to regulate the good from the bad and ugly. any identifiable use that crypto—assets might have in terms of efficiency and technological innovation must be put to use in the design of public money such as the digital euro. crypto—assets are a threat to financial stability, to consumers, to the environment, and at their most extreme, to the functioning of a democratic society. those pushing their use are vested interests out for a quick buck. they’re detached from and have no regard for what working people and families actually need. so let us regulate, regulate, regulate.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. money means trust, trust in a product or a service or a work, of course, trust that money can be used to do something good and that there is then credit in the return flow of that money. that's why it's so important to me that the title of this debate is not cryptocurrencies, but crypto-assets. because crypto, that's not money, that's assets, and that's not a currency, because currencies money , you can't privatize that. the money needs democratically legitimized states in the background to strengthen this trust. that is why it is so important that we, as representatives of the citizens of europe, still keep a close eye on the independent european central bank and also form our own opinions about what the european central bank is doing with our money, especially in these times of inflation and challenges in so many areas. so it's important that with this regulation, we make sure that everything that's done with crypto assets is transparent across the entire chain that crypto assets are used in, and that we very, very critically question what the purpose of the eurozone getting into this crypto asset business should be and whether it would make sense. i am very critical of the so-called digital euro. i believe that cash as a form of exercise of freedom should be taken for granted. as in all other areas, money laundering and any kind of abuse must be combated, but to question cash in sum is certainly the wrong way to go. the circle is now complete, because we must strengthen this trust, which money means, every day, and we are called upon to do so as members of parliament.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to mica and tfr, crypto players will be able to start applying the basic rules of traditional finance, crazy things like asking for identities, having insurance, not resorting to market manipulation or insider trading. that's good. it's better than nothing. is that enough? no, i'm not going. the european central bank, through the voices of christine lagarde, fabio panetta and elizabeth mccaul, believes that mica is not enough to properly regulate cryptocurrencies, and they are right, among other things, on the issues of thresholds and deadlines for application. so the world's largest cryptocurrency exchange, binance, which is registered in france, will be able to comply with mica in just eighteen months. eighteen months, during which time savers will have no protection. when i raised this issue in the econ committee, the european commission replied: 'ah, that's how it is!' there are two things: either there is no problem and we are not even legislating, or there is a problem and we have to act. so, commissioner, i have some questions for you. do you think that ms. lagarde, mr. panetta and ms. mccaul are wrong in their judgment about mica? if so, why? otherwise, what are you going to do? you're the one who decided to take a specific approach to crypto, when you should have followed a simple logic, which says: "same service, same risks, same regulation". we therefore ask that you act quickly. i would also like to draw my colleagues' attention to the fact that esma has the power to ban financial products when they are dangerous. i would like to end by praising the actions of the americans, and particularly of a man, gary gensler, who has chosen to protect american savers. i think we should be inspired by what the united states is doing.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank everyone for all the comments. i want to briefly touch on some of the issues that have been raised. lídia pereira mentioned – and i can only agree – that we don’t have to block innovation, that our rules need to be technologically neutral. i fully agree on that. i think that here the issue is more that we need to apply the same rules for the same risks. i think this is something that aurore lalucq mentioned and i think this is the principle that we should follow. but this, and let’s be clear, what we are doing is not applying the full set of financial regulation rules to the crypto world, we are creating a specific regime and by doing so this is why, i think, during the debate many people raised the issue that we probably need to adapt to mica 2 again, because this is the consequence of having chosen this kind of approach, which has good reasons for it, but then it will need further adaptation in order to be sure that same rules are applied to same risks, which is what we need. jonás fernández from the s&d said that we need to strengthen the prudential treatment of crypto exposures. i can only agree to that. i hope that the trialogue negotiations on crd/crr will get there. i also can fully agree with chris macmanus on the need to put in place these rules, but to consider those only a first step. so i fully agree also with that. i have mentioned it in my intervention and also to ondřej kovařík, who said that we need to completely be coherent what we are voting on thursday together with the aml legislation. i think this is very important that we have a coherent framework, also maybe it’s a good opportunity to insist that with cfr we have also made crypto companies obliged entities on the on the current aml regime and therefore we are going to apply the highest aml standards that we apply to banks also to the cryptocurrency actors and service providers. so i think this is this is important and we have done that also by doing some targeted changes to the already existing aml framework in in the waiting until the next one is put fully in place. and then finally, just a brief word to commissioner mcguinness, thank you so much for your cooperation again, commissioner. i think that the most important thing is that in this in this progressive entry into force of the legislation, we have to very carefully look at potential fragile investors that can be affected by the turmoil while we wait until the rules to be in place. so i think here in the in this transitional period, we still have some some work to do. and also, as you said, i think we need to continue international cooperation because most of these phenomena require international regulation. we need to continue cooperating at the level of fatf and also things like, for instance, the regulation of the impact of an of environment of cryptocurrencies will need at the end to have a solution at the international level. voilà, this is what i wanted to say. thank you again to all colleagues, commissioner, for all your work on that.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 20 april 2023 at 12.00 noon. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. madam president, it is necessary to regulate the crypto-asset markets, as the sector is currently in chaos, which is having a negative impact on the economy. the absence of a common eu framework for crypto-assets could lead to consumer distrust of these assets, which would hamper the development of the crypto-asset market and could miss opportunities to provide innovative digital services, alternative means of payment or new sources of financing for eu businesses. in addition, businesses using crypto-assets will not have legal certainty as to how their crypto-assets will be treated in each member state, which will be detrimental to their operations. it is therefore necessary to define at union level the framework for the regulation of crypto-assets and related activities and services and to clarify the applicable legal framework. such a harmonised framework should also cover crypto-asset services not yet covered by eu financial services rules, while respecting the sovereignty of the member states. such a system should help to promote innovation and fair competition, while ensuring a high level of consumer protection. it is the welfare of consumers that should be the main consideration when developing new regulations in this area of eu law.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the digital euro (2023/2641 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, today’s exchange on the digital euro is well timed and important, as the commission is expected to present its proposal for a regulatory framework. it is important for both council and parliament as co-legislators: our objective is to ensure that the legal foundations are fully in place when the ecb takes the final decision on whether or not to proceed with the issuance of a digital euro. the council recognised the strategic importance of the digital euro project and investigations into central bank digital currency in general. as you know, the digital euro project is part of a broader international trend. other central banks are embarking on similar projects, including in non-euro members like sweden. the digital project has a clear political dimension as it touches on economic and financial sovereignty and affects citizens and businesses in a very tangible manner. the introduction of the digital euro must therefore be an inclusive project supported by the european public and built on a solid democratic basis. this is also why we need to make sure that the citizens and businesses maintain access to sovereign money issued by the central bank, which should remain the monetary anchor. member states have regularly discussed this matter within the eurogroup, which has issued several statements summarising its views. i would say that there are both opportunities and challenges. to mention a few key points, the digital euro’s expected benefits span from widespread access to safe central bank money, and enhanced financial inclusion to cutting—edge, pan—eu payment systems. however, there are also risks connected to the launch of a retail digital euro. among other things, it requires certain safeguards so that it does not disrupt financial stability, resulting, for instance, from a displacement of commercial bank deposits. another key concern of member states is that of privacy. a high level of privacy is essential to gain the trust of retail users. at the same time, combating financial and illegal activities should be high on the agenda. at the same time, there are issues connected with the role of intermediaries and cost allocations that needs to be addressed so that consumers don’t face higher costs for digital euro payments than for commercial payments. another important dimension of this discussion is the international role of the euro and the interoperability with similar initiatives around the world. i mentioned just some key issues for the member states, which i am sure that that we share with the parliament. discussions on these and other aspects will continue. once the commission’s proposal is made public the council will do its part to take the legislative work forward so that we can engage in interinstitutional negotiations with the european parliament. i’m looking forward to the debate. thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. – mr president, minister, honourable members, i’m really happy that we’re having this conversation in the chamber today because we’ve been having conversations in corridors and it’s important that this chamber discusses what is a really important project. you’ve already heard that many governments and central banks around the world are looking into possible central bank digital currencies. and for the last two and a half years, we’ve examined whether a digital euro would be possible or desirable, and what the requirements would be. we’re doing that work hand in hand with the european central bank, discussing key aspects of a possible digital euro. and that’s why we very much welcome the political debate on the project. the single currency is a symbol of the european union and of european unity. bringing the euro into the digital age is a big european project and it is a very political project. and that means the digital euro needs to be supported by the european public and a strong democratic process. so the european parliament has a vital role to play in this debate. and, of course, you will soon be asked to look at our legislative proposal. so just a few words on what a digital euro is, why we might need it and some details of the legislative proposal. so to the basic question: what is a digital euro? we all understand what physical cash is and how to use it. central banks issue coins and banknotes and they play a key role in monetary systems. a coin or a banknote is a direct liability on a central bank. when we use private money, our confidence in it is based on the fact that you can convert it back to central bank money. a digital euro would be a complement to physical cash, which keeps its important role. indeed, i mentioned that in the last debate. a digital euro would play a similar function to cash, providing us with access to central bank money in a digital world. the digital euro – like cash today – would be backed by a central bank, and that’s also the real contrast to existing private digital currencies like crypto-assets. a digital euro would be safe, secure and sound. so now to ‘why we would need a digital euro’. let me talk about four main points here. the first one is that in a very rapidly digitalising economy, the share of payments in cash is declining, while digital payments are on the rise. this trend is likely to continue. so we want to make sure the euro is fit for the future and we want to keep our access to public money in a digital world. the second and related point: a digital euro could support financial inclusion. we know that people without bank accounts and other vulnerable groups rely heavily on cash for payments, and that means they face new risks as cash is used less. we would like a digital euro that can be used not only online but offline, too, for example in person-to-person payments or to pay in physical shops. we should also make a digital euro accessible to more vulnerable groups, including people who are not familiar with electronic devices or mobile apps. third point: a digital euro is essential to support the eu’s open strategic autonomy. private companies are developing stablecoins, crypto-assets whose value is pegged to another currency, usually not the euro. central banks around the world are investigating, piloting and even issuing digital currencies. if we don’t provide our own solution, then we run the risk of private stablecoins or foreign central bank digital currencies filling the gap. and that could affect the role of the euro, both in the european retail payments market and in international trade. fourth, and finally, a digital euro could foster innovation in payment systems and the economy at large. the payment systems we have at the moment are national or international. the digital euro could foster competition in the payment field, not crowding out existing means of payment. a digital euro should give citizens and businesses an additional payment option to use anywhere in the euro area, and they could always rely on it and know that their personal data is protected. a digital euro could support more innovation in payments, such as machine-to-machine payments that work without human interaction, like the automatic recharging of cars, logistics or deliveries. as i noted, a digital euro is not intended to replace cash, but rather to complement it. and it’s in this spirit that the commission intends to adopt a legislative proposal on the legal tender of cash in parallel to the digital euro proposal. and this is about maintaining the role of cash as legal tender in our economy, making sure we keep sufficient access to cash and keeping cash as an accepted form of payment. our upcoming regulation is intended to establish and regulate the essential aspects of the digital euro, and this is in full respect of the competence of the ecb, because ultimately the decision to issue a digital euro remains up to the ecb. i cannot pre-empt decisions to be taken by the college of commissioners, but i want to speak about some key issues we believe the upcoming legislative proposal should address, and these include legal tender. the legal tender status of the digital euro would ensure consistency with cash and make digital central bank money widely accessible in the euro area. on privacy, there is a delicate balance to be struck between privacy and anti-money laundering requirements. on financial stability, the digital euro should be a means of payment, but should not become a large store of value. we want to avoid the disintermediation of banks and any risk to financial stability. on the area of distribution and compensation, the digital euro would be distributed by private payment service providers, and these entities should receive a fair compensation. on financial inclusion, we are considering a series of basic services for people to be provided free of charge or at a reasonable price. and finally, the use of the digital euro outside the euro area. i want to thank members of this house who will share their views on this digital euro project, because i think your insights are really important and helpful, informing our preparation of the legislative proposal. and we’re looking forward to continuing to work with you on this important initiative. the eurogroup has also expressed strong support for the digital euro project and indeed our minister has outlined the views of the eurogroup. our targeted consultation last summer fed into our work also and we’ve engaged with public and private stakeholders, consumer organisations, businesses and financial institutions. and, indeed, this project has evolved over time. we have raised many questions. we have had answers. but sometimes the answers indeed lead to further questions. and i think that’s how it should be, because this is a very new area that we move into. so in conclusion, i would just say that this digital euro can only be a success if it has strong democratic foundations. and that’s why this house plays a vital role in our debate and why i am delighted that we are having this exchange today.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, madam president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! the european central bank has been conducting extensive preparatory work and feasibility studies on the topic of a 'digital euro' for several years now. the ecb's decision in principle is still officially pending, but we should assume that the central bank intends to continue this project. the european central bank has been the subject of several design options in recent months so, how should it really be designed? discussed and presented the considerations both in its progress reports and in exchanges with the european parliament. we have gained a better understanding of some of these options, these design options, the european central bank, but also the european commission, which is now working on a legal basis for a digital euro, but have not yet given a credible answer to a central question, namely: what is the added value of the digital euro for users? or to put it another way, what can i do with a digital euro that i can't do with today's payment options? so, what is the business model of the digital euro? until that question is answered, there will be a lot of scepticism about a digital euro. the public consultation of the central bank also shows where this comes from. most citizens want a high level of privacy in their payments. there are reasonable doubts that a digital euro can meet these objectives to the same extent as cash. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the future of the euro. the ecb should leave no doubt about that either. to be clear, i have no problem with a digital euro, as long as we know what it is needed for. but until that question is answered, we are very sceptical. if there is a clear vision, then many questions will be answered, commissioner, by themselves, because the design also answers the regulatory framework. therefore, please answer the question 'why' first and then the question 'how'.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, welcome back to the house. we were discussing earlier the challenges, the opportunities, the uncertainties of the world around digital assets. and certainly, in my view, the greatest uncertainty of this change, of this innovation in financial assets, is the potential loss of monetary sovereignty that could occur in the face of a growing disintermediation of publicly issued currencies by central banks. given the difficulties in managing cycles under these conditions - by the way, we can remember what happened in the western world in the 19th century, at the end of the 18th century, when there were no public currencies, when there was no monopoly on the issuance of currency, this is something to keep in mind - we have to think - and in my opinion this is the answer to the question asked by my colleague markus ferber earlier - that the reason for having a digital euro is to guarantee monetary sovereignty in a structural way. now, this big goal has to be reached by starting with small steps. and the commission and the european central bank are probably thinking of a rather unambitious proposal which, in some ways, may not be distinguishable from other payment systems. and here some colleagues are left wondering: why do we want a payment system which is little different from what is already offered by the private sector? the answer, in my view, is to have the framework, the structure to guarantee our monetary sovereignty in the medium term, because the future is certainly inscrutable.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, the european union must be at the forefront of the profound transformations in the payments sector and remain at the forefront. the world is not waiting for us. this is the case with our sovereignty and the preservation of a key prerogative of public power: the issuing of money. we therefore welcome the commission's forthcoming proposal for the creation of a digital euro, complementing the work of the european central bank. this is of course a major technical challenge, but it is above all a political challenge, with many questions still to be resolved. the digital euro must be a success, a new trusted tool that european citizens can own: complementary to cash, to which they remain deeply attached, easy to use, secure, protecting personal data while contributing to the fight against money laundering. we will also have to consider the possible repercussions on the banking system. so many imperatives, sometimes contradictory, that we will have to reconcile. we therefore look forward to the commission's proposal to begin our work and tackle these challenges, in order to make the daily lives of european citizens easier.
mr president, commissioner, i am still waiting for the answer to the question i asked you in the previous debate about mrs lagarde and mr panetta. as for the digital euro, i think the question we have to ask ourselves is: why are we doing this? what's the purpose? and i think that's where the stick hurts a little bit, because, of course, we talk about sovereignty, but i think we wanted to take the digital turn a little fast because it was fashionable and now we are trying to fill this project a little with forceps. if we take this project seriously, it is truly dizzying, because the currency is trust and violence, to use the title of michel aglietta's book. it is a highly political issue, and we cannot play it lightly, not least because it may call into question the functioning of our banking system. i'm not saying it's good, i'm not saying it's bad, i'm saying it's thought about, it's prepared and you have in your hands something very valuable, which is a political institution and it's called money. in the current context of political tensions and the rise of populists, i think we have to be very, very careful about how we conduct this debate, which is not technical, which is highly political, and that, in an emergency, we must always take our time.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 the dieselgate broke out, which involved many car manufacturers. they were accused of fraudulently reducing the pollutant emissions of their combustion engines during type-approval tests. of course, these lies to the buyers and to the european union should never have existed. but it is worth trying to understand how these builders got there. the increasingly unrealistic environmental standards in brussels have finally forced these manufacturers to take the fall. it is indeed a regulatory war, part of a punitive ecology, that the european union has been waging for years against motorists. the preservation of the health of europeans and the fight against pollution are commendable, but the means employed are still out of touch with reality, arbitrary and unjust. yesterday, europeans were encouraged to buy diesel cars. today, they are forced to switch to electricity, and this by geographically displacing pollution generated by the extraction of rare earths, which are needed for the manufacture of batteries. what about tomorrow? the manoeuvre undertaken in this debate is clear: to attack the thermal engines once again, without thinking that, in the depths of our countryside and of france overseas, many compatriots still work with generators. we are therefore looking forward to the debate on the pollution generated by the manufacture of electric batteries: pollution of watercourses, air and soil, in addition to pollution which sometimes seriously affects other continents. but the european union will turn a blind eye, probably thinking that there is good pollution and bad pollution.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner dear stella we have read this overall strategy and we are pleased with this very integrated vision of health in all policies, this ambitious proposal and we share it: health no longer as a cost but as an investment, no longer as a burden but as an opportunity for europe. but why then reserve it for third countries? why not apply it to ourselves? because, finally, are we so exemplary in the fight against inequality, in a genuine policy of prevention and in strengthening primary care? the own-initiative report on a strategy for care has shown us the similarity of our weaknesses within the schengen area itself. so why not take this global strategy and apply it within the union? and even if you are opposed to national prerogatives, why not launch programmes of enhanced cooperation between countries fighting for the same great cause: the health of europeans?
madam president, madam commissioner, it is clear that no borders can stop a pandemic. similarly, no wall can stop a natural disaster. the threat is global, so global solutions are needed. human health is directly linked to environmental health, and this is where europe has a role to play with development aid. we need to strengthen our cooperation: cooperation on health infrastructure, cooperation on medical research, cooperation on sharing solutions. obviously, if the planet is sick, we're all going to be sick. so we have to work together, work more, work better. we're already very late.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, today we are talking about one of the toughest anti-lgbtiq laws that hopefully will not see the light of day. this must be rejected in the strongest way possible, but before i do this, colleagues, let me first make one thing clear: i think it’s essential that we as the eu have a real partnership on equal footing with our partners in the global south, and we have to implement this on eye level. and it doesn’t help that we present each other as teachers trying to tell the others, according to accusations that they very often hear, how to live and how to organise your country and your society. but if we today talk about the law criminalising homosexuality in uganda, then we speak on the basis of our partnership. the eu is not coming around the corner as a teacher here because we have agreed as partners in international treaties, in conventions, in agreements that human rights are essential elements of our partnership and a key aspect of development of the people in our countries. and this law doesn’t take one step, doesn’t take 10 steps, but countless steps back into what feels really like middle ages. the proposed criminalisation of homosexual people tramples human rights in such a way that it’s really unbearable. and a climate of fear and denunciation is created. and anyone who wants in the country to grow and prosper is doing exactly the opposite what this law is doing. and don’t tell me that this is coming somehow from an african culture or these human rights contemplating positions have grown out of society. we have very good other examples in africa that show that things can be done differently and that is not undermining human dignity. in essence, president museveni should not sign this law. it really sends the wrong signal in all directions and massively harms ugandan society with regard to peaceful, secure and sustainable development.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, who am i, who are we to tell others what to think? who are they that hear tell individuals what they should be or how they should love? in the world, no one can, no one should claim the right to tell another who he is. for here we are not talking about freedom of what one wants to do. it is about the right to be. to be what we are. to live life as we are. to love as we are. it's about respect, respect for the right to be straight, gay, lesbian, bi, trans, to be the way you were born. it's just about being. being who you are. being alive. to live. so, ladies and gentlemen, in this world, we should not be in prison for who we are. we shouldn't be condemned to death for who we are. that is what today is all about. and that is why here, in this arena of european democracy, we must together call for the decriminalisation of homosexuality and transidentity.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, the proposed ugandan bill imposing the death penalty for consensual same—sex relations is simply horrific. death for being who we are. death for loving another person that the majority doesn’t think you should have the right to love. and the very process of driving bills like this is dangerous. it releases an avalanche of hate, violence, scapegoating. it’s life—threatening already while it’s being proposed, and i hope that everyone realises that. and i want all my lgbtqi sisters, brothers, siblings to know that you have our support in your struggle for freedom, for equality, for rights, the right to live. and i am proud to have negotiated, together with colleagues in this house, a text where the european parliament steps up and we ask you, the commission, and we ask you, the council, to also step up. we acknowledge in our resolution the link between the colonial rule and the criminalisation of homosexuality in many of the countries. we also acknowledge that we have to do everything we can to stop that certain western powers and countries and movements, evangelical churches and others, are actually fuelling the campaigns of hatred in uganda and other countries. we have to do what we can to stop that. we will ask you in the european commission and in the council to step up the work. the european union must be a champion for the decriminalisation and for the rights of lgbti people, in the eu, of course, but also globally. we can do so much better, and this house is asking you to do more.
mr president, dear all, violence, harassment and hate speech in uganda: these are not made-up allegations, but realities that activists have relayed to us. speaking out against these attacks and protecting lgbti rights is not a western cultural construct, just as harassment and hate speech are not in the dna of ugandan citizens. this violence is a consequence of cynical choices driven by political and by religious interests. since the ugandan vote in favour of the total prohibition of homosexuality in the country, kenya and also tanzania have tabled similar texts. this is worrying, and all institutions must condemn criminalisation of homosexuality and trans identity. europe must engage itself in the fight in favour of the universal decriminalisation of homosexuality and trans identity, not only for ugandans, kenyans and tanzanians, but for all persecuted lgbti people in the world. europe shall commit itself to preventing the enactment of this law in uganda or elsewhere. and to achieve this, europe and the commission must act strongly, going so far as to sanction the regime in place or denounce the existing trade agreements with the country, while guaranteeing the presence of special envoys in uganda responsible for assessing the situation, and while also preserving – and foremost supporting – civil society.
mr president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, and especially dear colleagues, members of parliament outside of europe: if you criminalise homosexuality, people are going to kill themselves. children are going to commit suicide for what they are. be aware of this. who brought these laws to so many countries in the world? it was the colonisers. do you really want to follow this path? i doubt it. two thousand four hundred years before christ, they found statues in egypt of men loving each other. do you really think this is something new? i don’t think so.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to join my speakers in also supporting a resolution in which we unequivocally reject the law passed by parliament in uganda which criminalises homosexuality in a completely insane way. this is not a regular criminalization. it is a law that for such a display of behavior, which is human and natural to man, proposes the death penalty and draconian penalties of imprisonment. i think it is not possible to just condemn this law and continue to say that relations with uganda are fine and that uganda is fulfilling its international obligations. if uganda eventually passes and takes effect, this needs to have an impact on the relationship between the civilized world the european union and uganda. this needs to affect economic relations with uganda. it should be clear that we will not tolerate the cynical behavior of the president and we are prepared to respond. it should be noted that similar bills were discussed by other african countries, but fortunately, they were not adopted. uganda is a country where the absolute majority of legislators are actually willing to pass a law that says that certain forms of homosexuality should be punishable by death. we must condemn this clearly, and if such a law is passed, it must have an impact on relations between the european union and uganda.
mr president, commissioner, council, you, i, each of us here – also there – has the duty to stop this global authoritarian onslaught on lgbtq rights fought so hard to win. these rights to be treated as a human being, to be who you are, to love who you want. is that too much to ask? for the 387 ugandan lawmakers who voted for this extremist bill, the answer is clearly ‘yes’. president museveni: veto this bill. stop scapegoating the vulnerable, for the sake of all your citizens. if not, the eu must and will take strong measures in response. ik veroordeel de walgelijke homofobe mishandeling van een coc—vrijwilliger in eindhoven en medewerkers van dorothy's drag bar in groningen met kracht. weet, jullie staan niet alleen, niet in uganda, niet in nederland, niet in europa. wij staan schouder aan schouder met de lgbt-gemeenschap in europa en daarbuiten.
mr president, madam minister, madam commissioner, there is no place for homosexuals in this country. these words are shocking to us. but they are from ugandan minister musa ecweru, who made the remarks last month in the parliament in kampala, after the near-unanimous adoption of an anti-lgbt+ law. a minimum of 14 years in prison, or the death penalty, for homosexual relations. a duty of reporting for everyone in the country, a perfect manual of discrimination and incitement to hatred, in the name of morality, children, the fight against cultural colonialism. the european union must use all levers to prevent the enactment of this law, including sanctions against the political and religious leaders responsible, and guarantee sexual rights freedom in uganda and beyond, everywhere in the world. commissioner, eleven countries in the world still condemn homosexuals to the death penalty. that's 11 countries too many. i would like to conclude by echoing what my colleague pierre karleskind said, paraphrasing: 'everyone in the world has the right to be. everyone has the right to love. everyone has the right to be loved as they feel. it's not negotiable. (applause) (applause) (applause) (applause) (applause) this is the
president. - the situation for the people of uganda is quite shocking. admitting your sexuality - the most normal thing in the world - can easily land you in jail or even death. this is for ugandans who just want to be themselves, hell on earth. the ugandan government is using completely innocent citizens to distract the rest of the population from the real problems in the country, such as corruption, the arrest of journalists and the dismantling of the rule of law. we are seeing this tactic being used in more and more countries, and this is worrying. i therefore want the european commission to take immediate action. we are not going to reward countries with trade advantages and free access to our european market when they decide to introduce the death penalty for human beings. that seems perfectly clear to me. these trade advantages must be withdrawn immediately. we cannot be silent about this. we have to take action. this has got to stop.
mr president, this ugandan law, passed in march of this year 2023, which condemns homosexuality to death, shocks the conscience of the european parliament, as this debate with the commission and the council shows. it is unacceptable in a country that receives massive aid from the european union, and diplomacy must be used to ensure that this law cannot be applied in any case. but this morning we heard a passionate plea from the prime minister of luxembourg, xavier bettel, in defence of non-discrimination and respect for the sexual and gender identity of all people. mr bettel reminded us that there is work to be done in the european union too. this parliament protested against a hungarian law of june 2021 that forbade, nothing more and nothing less, the dissemination of homosexual content in the media and in school, as if homosexuality were evil or contagious, which is completely unacceptable. the european parliament, with 15 member states, has decided to join the commission's application to the court of justice of the european union for the law to be declared illegal under european law as being in contradiction with european law. the latest law adopted by the hungarian parliament, which allows homosexual families with dependent children to be denounced, is also in contradiction to this, something which is completely unacceptable and contrary to european law. the commission must therefore also bring an action against this law with the support of this european parliament.
mr president, i take the floor. i realized that i hadn't spoken very loudly and that since then, many people hadn't heard me. don't worry, i won't repeat what i said. it is simply that commissioner kyriakides spoke much louder, and yet there are things i did not hear. commissioner, i did not hear you condemn this law. i have not heard the commission condemn this law. i have not heard the commission ask for the withdrawal of this law. rethink... rethinking means to rethink and change, not to remove. nor have i heard you speak of the measures you would take if this law were enacted. commissioner, i have heard about the strategic partnerships that the european union is planning to have with uganda. i would like to say that your speech, given what i heard and, above all, what i did not hear, is a disgrace to us!
mr karleskind, normally if you are speaking on debates you are not taking the catch-the-eye but this time i allowed you to speak, and because of technical reasons my staff members around me tell me that mr comín i oliveres also requested the floor but for technical reasons it was not registered.
mr. speaker, yes, the ugandan parliament has passed a criminal law against the lgbti community. but the european union left the lgbti community behind in the negotiations of the post-cotonou agreement with the acp countries, including uganda. it has not ensured that the agreement includes an explicit commitment to the rights of this community, which is also mine. given the level of violence and persecution suffered by these groups in many acp countries, it is clear that we, the union, are facing a dramatic human rights failure in the light of this post-cotonou agreement. in negotiations as important as these, the union must be more courageous, much more courageous, in defending those whose rights, physical integrity or even lives are threatened because of their sexual orientation. the union must be the hope of all lgbti men and women on the planet, not only as a place to live out their sexual orientation without discrimination, but also and above all as a geopolitical power that will always strive, with all the democratic means at its disposal, to combat persecution of the lgbti community, wherever it occurs.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the debate today testifies to our continuous interest and engagement in the rights of lgbtqi persons. the trajectory uganda would follow if the bill in question would become law, eroding the core values on which our relation is built, is very worrying and could jeopardise the prospect of a strengthened partnership. let me say once again, as i did say in my opening remarks: this law should not be promulgated. if the anti—homosexuality bill is signed into law, uganda will seriously undermine its international and continental human rights obligations. it is important to recall that the eu is opposed to the death penalty in all circumstances. the eu strongly encourages uganda to reconsider the anti—homosexuality bill and believes that the ugandan government and lawmakers should engage in dialogue with all sectors of society to foster a greater sense of tolerance towards the rights of people to live free from fear, regardless of their sexual orientation or gender identity. the commission will use all opportunities of engagement with the ugandan authorities and civil society in the context of our broader partnership to promote that all individuals, regardless of their sexual orientation and gender identity, are treated equally with dignity and respect, in line with the eu guidelines on the death penalty and on the promotion and protection of the enjoyment of all human rights by lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex persons. so let me stress once again that the eu will continue to follow the human rights situation in uganda very closely, including through our bilateral political dialogue. but we will stand ready to support and assist uganda in its agenda to advance human rights.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, this debate testifies to our to continued strong commitment to the enjoyment of human rights by lgbti persons in the eu and globally. as the situation for human rights faces increasing challenges, the eu continues to stand determined in the defence of universal human rights. the eu is fully committed to addressing inequalities and challenges affecting lgbti persons in europe and beyond. and let me be clear: we will not compromise on our principles and values, and we are always ready to act and to address discrimination and hatred. i will not close my statement today to say thank you for the debate, as i usually do. i will instead thank the parliament for being so engaged and for your strong engagement and the strong message here tonight.
that concludes the debate. the vote will take place tomorrow. (the sitting was suspended at 19.01)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the suppression of the right to education and its activists in afghanistan, including the matiullah wesa case (2023/2648 ((rsp)) *. the following table is added: see minutes of the hearing.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. afghanistan is today the worst country in the world for women and girls to live in. we are now witnessing the continued violation of the rights of women and girls. we know that this is a deliberate strategy by the taliban to erase women from the public sphere. since the taliban took power in the fall of 2021, the backlash against gender equality is a fact, and it has huge consequences. prohibiting education for women and girls will not only affect the development of all children, but it will severely hamper women's opportunities for economic independence and independent living. education is not just a right in itself, but a pathway to employment, to a decent standard of living and to participation in society. the taliban's ban on education for women and girls over the age of 12 has other devastating consequences. forced marriages are on the rise, gender-based and sexual violence are on the rise, and prostitution is on the rise. in this deeply disturbing development, there are civil society organisations and individuals who are making heroic efforts to promote human rights and the equal value of all. this is despite the fact that they are risking their own safety and their own lives. one of them is matiullah wesa, a 30-year-old activist who has run the organization pen path since 2009. the organization works to ensure education for young girls. it is therefore deeply regrettable and totally unacceptable that he was arrested in kabul by taliban security forces on 27 march. today, neither we nor his family have any information about his whereabouts or his condition. the taliban regime should immediately release him and other activists arrested for their advocacy for the right of girls and women to education. the commission and the eeas must increase their support to those organisations which, despite the situation, find solutions to ensure that girls and women are educated in afghanistan. europe must not let down all these young girls and women who dream of a better world and a better life, both for themselves and for their families.
author. – mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, the return of the taliban has plunged afghanistan into the dark ages. at least half of the afghan society, afghan girls and women have been deprived of basic rights and freedoms. they have been excluded from public life, confined within the four walls of their homes, which are tantamount to prison. by denying girls and women an education and replacing modern, secular education with religious training for boys, the taliban are depriving afghanistan of its future. i call on the european union to continuously raise the issue of education of afghan girls and women in all international forums. i also call on joint action with islamic countries to hold the taliban accountable and to lift bans that violate the rights of afghans and are incompatible with islam. the future of afghanistan is shaped by people who value education and are not afraid of women’s emancipation, such as matiullah wesa, rasul abdi parsi, noorayel kaliwal and mortaza behboudi.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: representatives of the european commission! ladies and gentlemen! unfortunately, after the chaos of the american withdrawal in september 2021, i warned that those who told us that these new authorities were different taliban, that they were not as radical, that they were open to dialogue, that they were educated in western universities, and that they were a better face of the taliban compared to those who ruled kabul 20 years ago, were wrong. i warned you that it was really a tactic, that the taliban are the same. and it is. it confirms what happened three weeks ago, the arrest that you're talking about. i think that any sanctions against afghanistan should be enforced very hard, because that is the only thing that can make the government in kabul try to at least maintain some minimum standards. although i'm a pessimist here.
author. mr president, the right to education continues to be denied to women and girls in afghanistan. matiullah wesa, a prominent advocate for women's education and founder of pen path, was arbitrarily detained, as were many others before him, including women's rights activists and protesters. we strongly condemn the devastating backsliding on women's rights and the wider human rights situation in afghanistan, and we are deeply concerned about the humanitarian crisis there, which affects women, girls and women-headed families most. but we are not deluded. in afghanistan there is a legacy, a disastrous legacy of decades of international intervention, of illegal occupations, such as nato. and we should also reflect on that. this is why the european union should increase its contribution to humanitarian aid to afghanistan and facilitate the safe resettlement of afghans at risk, including through increased humanitarian visas, giving priority to women and girls. we are also very concerned to hear the statements by the un assistant secretary-general, amina mohammed, that the un is preparing a road map for the official recognition of the taliban. but, ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget the disastrous legacy of decades of international intervention, of illegal occupations. let us not erase what was the illegal nato occupation.
on behalf of the ppe group. – a uachtaráin, the situation in afghanistan worsens. i am gravely concerned for the safety and well-being of afghan citizens, particularly women and girls, members of the lgbtq community and ethnic minorities. we have witnessed the taliban taking away women's freedom of movement, their right to work and their right to education. we have reached crisis point and it is time for the eu to take swift action. one avenue in which the eu can provide tangible support to afghan women is through academic networks. keeping afghan women in education would be crucial for the future of afghanistan. afghanistan will need educated women in rebuilding itself in the wake of the taliban, and the eu has the potential to contribute towards this. i am therefore calling for the european commission and member states to facilitate scholarships exclusively for afghan women and girls. by bringing women back into education, we are not saving them from afghanistan, but saving them for the future of afghanistan.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, it is 576 days since the taliban banned teenage girls from education. half of afghanistan’s population is denied the right to education and work. last month’s arbitrary arrest of matiullah wesa is a severe blow to the already dire situation, yet girls’ education is a central key to a country’s sustainable social, democratic and economic development. in 2001, almost zero girls attended secondary education in afghanistan, compared with 1.1 million in 2021. and what is happening now? zero girls again. given the current situation under the taliban, this can only mean one thing: afghan women must be recognised as refugees under the geneva refugee convention, as the european union agency for asylum has advised.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, twenty-four days. twenty-four days since matiullah wesa was arbitrarily arrested by the taliban. what heinous crime could he have committed? he traveled through rural afghanistan with a megaphone on his mobile library, advocating for the right to education for afghan women and girls. afghanistan is the only country in the world that bans girls and women from going to school beyond primary school, making them invisible in public spaces. matiullah wesa brought them school, knowledge, openness to the world and critical thinking. we know the taliban's methods. by jailing matiullah wesa, human rights defenders and journalists, it is the future of all afghan girls and all afghan boys that is being thrown into the trash, with the dissonant voices. it is our duty to secure the release of afghan girls and women and in so doing to deliver their inalienable right to education and freedom. echoing their iranian sisters, afghans also chant "woman! life! freedom!" in dari: "zan! zendegi! azadi!"
author. madam president, we admire the courage, we admire the heroism with which these two men, alexei navalny and vladimir kara-mourza, defy vladimir putin to make the voice of the other russia heard. but that is not the only reason why we are defending them and demanding their release. these men are not only valuable, they are also indispensable: to their country, to europe and to the world. because if this war continues, russia will soon be threatened with division and chaos. that day will see a new era of turmoil threaten the largest country, and the entire continent - ours - could be destabilized. on that day, we will all need, in russia as elsewhere, the experience and wisdom of these men, whom the despot of the kremlin wants to kill in his dungeons. so we tell you, mr. putin, you are their accountant. you must make sure they live and give them their freedom.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, our planet is facing a climate time bomb: these are the latest findings of the ipcc scientific report. the temperature rise of the last fifty years is brutal and it is leading our societies to an obvious increase in uncertainties. a trivial discussion with a french farmer is enough to realize this. today, almost half of humanity lives in areas extremely vulnerable to climate change. heat waves, droughts and floods increase mortality, disease transmission and population displacement. the un predicts that by 2050, 250 million people will migrate from the areas most affected by warming. if we do nothing, the chaos of migration will be one of the most dizzying consequences. but the ipcc report does more than just raise the alarm about the climate emergency. it also shows us that solutions are at hand. and these solutions are very different from the punitive ecology that remains the credo of the european union. the best ally for the climate is not taxes and bans, but scientific progress and technological innovation. improving the energy performance of buildings, heavy-duty hydrogen transport and techniques for removing co2 from the atmosphere are all tools at our disposal to decarbonise our economies without falling into decline or decline. the challenge of the 21st century is also the inevitable end of the fossil fuel era. history shows that doing without the most polluting fossil fuels, such as coal, is not a pipe dream. there is a country that has achieved its energy transition in just two decades. that country is france. france under general de gaulle and president pompidou, which has succeeded in replacing all its coal use with nuclear energy. the major powers which emit the most greenhouse gases, such as the united states and china, will have to follow the french path. we must put an end to the irrational pursuit of nuclear power. to reduce our co2 emissions without relying on the atom is to choose the path, once again, of decline and impoverishment. faced with the vital challenge of preserving the environment in which our civilisation must flourish, neither waiting nor catastrophism can be a viable response. future generations do not need millenarian incantations about climate, but pragmatic policies that rely on the ingenuity of human genius to ensure a better world tomorrow.
mr president, the ipcc is clear: the climate crisis is abysmal and deadly for humanity and for many other species. but the ipcc is also formal: we can still act. to do this, at least three foods in the recipe. the first is to get rid of fossil fuels. this means ending all funding, all support for fossil fuel projects and their infrastructure. and this applies to the european union, to its member states, but also to european companies. we need to legislate in this direction. second, it's dangerous to focus on carbon alone. climate and biodiversity are linked, but they are also linked to other planetary boundaries: the ocean, freshwater, toxic chemicals and rare metals. reducing our material footprint in just sobriety, adapting and adopting the texts of the green pact on living and toxic substances, that is what we must do today. third, climate efficiency is based on social justice, given that the richest 16% of the population are responsible for 40% of emissions. so that is the way we must go. the ipcc's conclusion is that we need to move towards carbon neutrality by 2040. so i ask you, what are we going to do?
mr president, in order to combat global warming, the european union is once again taking binding measures for our people. the european union is the queen of the hypocrites' ball. it prohibits the sale of cars with combustion engines to promote electric vehicles whose polluting batteries are imported from the other side of the world. it is imposing energy-efficient renovation of buildings in europe, but at the same time it is adopting a free trade agreement with new zealand and pushing forward the one with the mercosur area - two ecological aberrations. it is sacrificing nuclear energy, which is decarbonised and cheap, and which ensured france's energy independence, which was totally neglected under the presidencies of hollande and macron, to the misfortune of our fellow citizens. unlike my macronist colleague canfin, we cannot advocate more renewables on the highways, in the fields and at sea, as he wants. this is eco-bobo craziness. the desire to make people happy in spite of them is profoundly undemocratic. brussels does not care if more coercive measures are imposed on european citizens, which are financially unsustainable. in the end, it is always the same people who drink the wine: the middle and lower classes, who are the victims of ecological dogmas. yet europe is making considerable efforts to protect the environment, while china, india and the united states are the world's biggest polluters. why should europeans pay for the whole world when they are the best students in the class? their efforts will have no impact on the climate crisis unless other powers and so-called emerging countries do the same. if ideology could disconnect from ecology, if the constraints were aimed at the biggest polluters, our old earth would be infinitely better off.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this week has been one of warmth and cold, of hope and questions, and even of anger. what gives hope are the texts we voted on this week, which should put the european union on the path to climate neutrality. the european project is all about building together this response to the climate challenge. the report also highlights the importance of the regeneration of marine and coastal ecosystems, which is a major contributor to climate change mitigation. my dear colleagues, it took us four years, four years to build this framework. as scientists warn, there's not a degree, not a year to lose. every half a degree, every tenth of a degree counts. in some places, mitigation and adaptation are not and will not be sufficient. we're gonna have to be resilient. so i ask all our institutions: in our debates, and in particular in the campaign for the forthcoming european elections, what place are we going to give to the changing climate? what place are we going to leave for the ocean and the burning forests? what place are we going to give to action? yesterday, i was with one of the ipcc vice-presidents and i asked him what message should be passed in one minute. he didn't hesitate. he said, "let's think about leaving a habitable planet for our children".
mr president, commissioner, sure, the climate crisis i think everyone has to recognize it, but my view (and my view is that of the citizens i represent here) is that it has to be dealt with globally. we cannot solve the climate crisis by ourselves, europe. that is why it is imperative that at cop 28 in dubai, the european institutions make it very clear, like the other continents, that they have a strategy to mitigate the climate crisis, and it is clear that we need to see here how we can better manage forests, water and soil. here, perhaps, additional measures are needed, because deforestation, as we know, has led to natural disasters; but, commissioner, we cannot tackle the climate crisis with more drastic measures, as you said, if we do not also tackle the social crisis. so here we have to do the whole package, to find measures to support the less developed countries, the poorer regions, so that citizens can support these measures that mitigate the climate crisis, because everybody will want to have a roof, as a colleague here said, with solar power, but will they be able to? where does it come from? so here we have to deal with the package and certainly this is the right way.
mr president, according to the french minister for the ecological transition, global warming is not a political reality but a natural one. depoliticizing climate change is a way to avoid responsibility. such a statement is a clear indication of the hypocrisy which is still being shown by the majority of european governments. the latest ipcc report makes it very clear: climate change is the result of human activities and the political choices made in recent decades, namely those of neoliberalism and support for a totally outdated productivism. not acting on climate is also not acting on social justice. but there are many in this parliament who, like the french minister, pretend to ignore it, by continuing to give gifts to big business and by placing the burden of the ecological transition on the poorest. yet, the responsibility is yours to future generations, whether you like it or not.
madam president, commissioner, today more than ever it is imperative to simplify european procedures. to illustrate this urgency, i will speak once again to you of the men and women overseas, of our fishermen who risk their lives every time they go out on boats that are much too old, of our business leaders who continue to create jobs while they sink under the bills, of our farmers, our herders, who work hard in the face of tropical climatic constraints. in our country, everyone works under extremely difficult conditions, and that is why it is necessary to simplify their access to european funds and state aid. let me be clear: the aim is not to evade the rule. the aim is to adapt the rule to make public action more efficient. this is the meaning of this overseas reflection that i bring here, for a europe that is more united, more efficient and that takes account of the reality of our local specificities.
madam president, commissioner, this subject of state aid may seem technical, but i would just like to tell you a little story. when i went to see the fishermen of mayotte, who go out to sea in ageless canoes, they told me that they had not received a single cent of the funding that had been promised to them for years now to renew their fleet. all the world's major powers are helping their fishermen to finance the renewal of their fleets. for us, the challenges of supplying our outermost regions, our european countries, but also of ensuring a presence at sea in those regions of the world where europe is fortunate enough to be able to count on them, are major strategic challenges. well, we haven't released a single euro. why would you do that? because, even though our parliament voted in favour of these state aids, even though it voted in favour of european funds for fleet renewal in the emff, even though the european commission has committed itself to this, today the subject is blocked. the commission refuses to commit the necessary funds. at the same time, however, these fishermen from mayotte, but also those from guyana, those from reunion, are seeing the arrival of new, brand new boats, financed by european funds under development aid: boats from suriname for guyana, boats from mauritius for mayotte and reunion. we see that europe is financing with european funds boats built in third countries, while it is refusing to support our own fishermen in our own countries. how can this not be a matter of concern to fishermen in our outermost regions, to fishermen in our overseas countries? it is urgent that this matter be finally unblocked and that we stop the delaying manoeuvres of constantly refusing to make this support, which was voted for by our parliament, a reality.
madam president, our parliament is preparing to negotiate its pact on migration and asylum as quickly and discreetly as possible. as soon as possible, so that it can be adopted before the 2024 european elections and the likely arrival of a new majority, which will block this set of texts. as discreetly as possible, that is to say without immediate public debate, to avoid our fellow citizens discovering the migration catastrophe that is being prepared here. the european union is also committed to the protection of the rights of the child, and to the protection of the rights of the child. we demand an immediate public debate on these texts - don't think we are against the debate. we want it now, because we know that you will do everything to ensure that this pact is implemented before 2024. we also want our assembly to vote on these texts, which require member states to commit themselves to accepting asylum seekers arriving in europe on behalf of a solidarity mechanism. the proper implementation of this mechanism will be monitored by a 'european resettlement coordinator', a person without any democratic legitimacy. worse, in the event of a crisis, the commission will be obliged to distribute the migrants to our respective countries. as if this were not enough, asylum applications by migrants will be facilitated and family reunification will be greatly expanded and encouraged. the initial measures proposed to protect the external borders will be reduced to a minimum, if not simply abolished. however, real external borders are the best demonstration of solidarity with countries such as italy and greece, which are on the front line in the face of mass immigration. the ideology of the european parliament was no longer to be demonstrated, but here, in this case, the steps are being burned! as if the rise to power in all our states of an electorate which rejects this policy was feared by brussels. because, it must be said, the policy you want to implement, our people, for the most part, do not want it. you want to impose a policy against the people! this is the very negation of democracy and the beginning of authoritarianism!
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, we are finally putting this debate to the house. i can only rejoice - i think it shows - that i have been fighting against the trafficking of cultural goods and looted goods since the beginning of my mandate. i thank you for coming, commissioner, but with all due respect i would also like to see mr schinas, mrs johansson and mrs gabriel. trafficking in cultural goods is not a new phenomenon, and we have largely underestimated it for far too long. often because it is wrongly believed that this is a crime without victims, without bloodshed, without smoking guns, finally, no urgency... and yet, look at how, for example, the islamic state has institutionalized this trafficking, how this terrorist organization has turned it into a real financial resource. in this period of increasing wars and tensions in the world, too moderate sanctions and the vulnerability of sites in conflict zones are weaknesses that are conducive to the explosion of this illegal traffic. when we talk about trafficking, we also talk about the immeasurable loss of cultural heritage, misplaced, lost, if not destroyed. this cultural heritage is the basis of the identity of the peoples. the deprivation of peoples of their identity, in whole or in part, is a tragedy for several generations. that is why i welcome this new action plan, which strengthens our capacity to prevent these crimes, to detect and prosecute the criminals, and which also puts the emphasis on international cooperation. we must cooperate closely with public authorities and relevant stakeholders to preserve the cultural heritage of all countries. finally, let us not forget to return the cultural property that has been looted, to help heal the wounds of the past and to give each people a chance to tell its story.
mr president, i voted today for transparency as i always do, because transparency is something that no one has to fear except criminals. because cryptocurrencies are very good, as long as we can verify who's behind them. and today we have oligarchs, we have sanctions against them, we have a lot of common law criminals or even corrupt people hiding behind cryptocurrencies, and this cannot continue. because what's the most important thing, always? and fight against the oligarchs, all from confiscating their money goes away. this is the most effective way to fight crime. similarly, confiscation of the proceeds of crime and the fight against corruption means confiscation of assets. so this is what it's all about, transparency, and crypto shouldn't be a preferred way for criminals of any kind or putin oligarchs to do their dirty work in the european union.
mr. chairman, it's a great honor to be the only one left to speak on this subject, but yes, i voted against this report because this report is absolute nonsense. this report is something the european parliament should not be doing. there's a country somewhere in africa that's deciding to do something about its internal affairs. and here the european parliament, which by the way does not take a position on much more important issues, is dealing with what the ugandan authorities have decided. that's great, but let me ask you the next riddle. we have a big country attacking a small country. the big one is armed, the little one is weaker, it invades, takes its territory, it occupies it, and that's bad. what countries do you think they are? i'll give you a hint, they're not who you think. this is azerbaijan attacking armenia. have you seen, have you heard here in this room that there is some kind of urgent report regarding the rights of armenians in armenia, in nagorno-karabakh, artsakh, as they say. no, we deal with deciding in uganda who to marry, who to marry, who to marry and who to perform these ridiculous body movements... (the president interrupts the speaker) what i wanted to say, mr. chairman, before you interrupt me, quite wrongly, is that in this parliament we look at all kinds of other nonsense, not the ones that are important. and that impresses the people who pay our salaries with their taxes.
i interrupted you; i shouldn’t have, please continue. thank you.
what does it mean, thank you? i am absolutely not off-topic, mr president, because this is my explanation of vote and i have the right to explain my vote. please give me these 10 seconds back if it’s possible. това, което исках да кажа, уважаеми г-н председател, преди да ме прекъснете доста нередно е, че в този парламент се гледат всякакви други глупости, а не тези, които са важни. и това прави впечатление на хората, които плащат със своите данъци нашите заплати.
i think human rights are important subjects, and it’s international law, but anyway, thank you for your interventions, dear colleagues. that concludes the explanations of vote.
the minutes of this sitting will be submitted to parliament for its approval at the beginning of the next sitting. if there are no objections, i shall forward forthwith the resolutions adopted at today’s sitting to the persons and bodies named in the resolutions.
the next part-session will take place from 8-11 may 2023.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
in accordance with rule 158 (2) of the rules of procedure, the sitting of wednesday 10 may 2023 shall be extended until 11.00 p.m. on a proposal from the president and in agreement with the political groups. if no objections are raised, the amendment shall be deemed to be accepted. (parliament agreed to this proposal. the agenda will be amended accordingly.)
the non-attached members have forwarded to the president decisions on changes to appointments in a committee. this decision shall be entered in the minutes of today's meeting and shall enter into force on the day of its publication.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the revision of the stability and growth pact (2023/2683 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, commission vice-president, the review is a clear priority for the swedish presidency. in march, the presidency worked hard to find a compromise on the council conclusions on the reform of the eu governance rules that all member states could agree on. i am proud that the council have come this far and that both the ep and the council are now ready to take the next step towards getting an updated framework in place. the council welcomes the publication of the commission’s legislative proposals on 26 april. it provides a good basis for the upcoming negotiations. we now aim to take the legislative work as far as possible before handing over to the upcoming spanish presidency. it is of great importance that co-legislators work hard to reach an agreement on the legal text before the end of the year. this would be the third revision of the stability and growth pact since its entry into force at the turn of the century. we should take into account the new economic and fiscal realities as we move forward with the reforms of the economic governance framework. fiscal rules are important and should remain an essential instrument in our economic policy toolkit. the goals of the reform framework are clear: namely, to ensure sustainable fiscal policy by taking a more medium-term and holistic view to reduce high public debt, to promote growth, enhancing reforms and investments, and to strengthen enforcement tools and national ownership. it is important to keep in mind that there is no trade-off between growth and fiscal sustainability over the medium term. the two concepts must be in tandem. in other words, sound public finances are a precondition to sustainable growth, and sustainable growth supports the improvement of all fiscal positions. the council has already started an intense technical examination of the commission’s proposal. now the presidency looks forward to cooperating with parliament on this important issue. thank you very much for your attention. i look forward to the debate.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, madam minister, honourable members, my friend and colleague paolo gentiloni very much wanted to be here with you, but he has a flu and a fever and therefore he asked me to step in for him in this very important debate. but his team is here with us, so i hope we will be able to answer any questions you might have. and indeed, as madam minister has just highlighted, the two weeks ago, the commission presented its legislative proposals for an ambitious reform of the european economic governance framework, in particular the stability and growth pact. for over 25 years, the stability and growth pact has provided a shared basis for eu fiscal policies and an essential underpinning for the economic and monetary union. however, its shortcomings have also become all too evident whether one looks at the development of public debt, at investment levels or our economic performance over the past two decades. moreover, the challenges we face today are a world away from those of the 90s when the pact was initially designed. public debt has surged and so have our investment needs, fit for a green and digital transition, security and defence or the resilience of our industrial supply chains. the commission’s proposals address both of those aspects. they aim to bring about a more gradual but steadier reduction in debt levels and to boost sustainable and inclusive growth through investment and reforms. we have reached this point after an extensive public debate. we have consulted widely with the eu institutions, national governments, social partners and other stakeholders, and of course, there were several interactions with the european parliament and members of the european parliament. since we published our orientations last november, we have undertaken intensive discussions with member states in the ecofin filière and in march eu finance ministers agreed on the core elements for a reformed economic framework. we are convinced that the proposals we put forward will support both stability and growth for the european union in the years ahead. based on all the input received, our proposals represent a balanced approach that will make the eu’s fiscal rules more effective. let me highlight four key elements. first, our proposals promote greater national ownership through medium term fiscal structural plans prepared by the member states within a common eu framework with sufficient safeguards. in this way, we simultaneously ensure equal treatment and consideration of country-specific situations. member states should ensure that their debt to gdp ratio declines to, or stays at, prudent levels and that their deficit is brought to, or maintained, below 3%. this implies that member states with debt of about 60% of gdp or with a deficit of about 3% of gdp, deliver a fiscal adjustment over the planning horizon based on a transparent common framework. second, as a counterpart to this surveillance framework that provides more leeway to member states in designing their fiscal trajectories, our proposals allow for more credible enforcement. specifically, deviations from the agreed fiscal path would be the basis for possible, reasonable and strengthened enforcement actions. and third, our proposals simplify our rules and focus on fiscal challenges. this means taking into account member states’ different initial fiscal positions and their different public debt challenges. it also means relying on a single operational indicator based on the evolution of expenditure, net of new revenue measures. by focusing on net expenditure, we also avoid the typical procyclical bias that fiscal policy has had over the past years – namely, we expanded in good times and cut in bad times. and last but not least, our proposals will facilitate reforms and investment commitments underpinned by an extended and more gradual adjustment path. these should be growth enhancing, supportive of fiscal sustainability and should address the common eu priorities such as the green deal, the european pillar of social rights or the digital decade. they should ensure that the overall level of nationally financed public investment over the lifetime of the plan is higher than in the preceding period. and this is, of course, a very significant innovation compared to the current framework. we are now looking forward to engaging with the european parliament and member states and we will work tirelessly to help build a consensus and bridge differing views. agreeing on the new framework of rules is in our common interest. it would reassure the financial markets and investors and it would give governments clarity on the way forward, also considering the deactivation of the general escape clause at the end of this year. time is of the essence. the council last month called for legislative work to be completed by the end of the year, and i am confident that we can achieve that if you all rise to the challenge.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the fact that we have a common currency means that all the members of this monetary union must assume responsibility for the stability of the common currency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is the idea of the stability and growth pact: you are responsible not only for your own budget, but also for the common currency. but if we take a critical look at the rules that have been in place, we must say that the system has not worked well. many member states have not kept to the deficit limits even in good times. the national debt has been rising ever since before the pandemic, before the terrible russian war of aggression. the analysis that we need a reform of the regulatory framework, i fully share. but i think there are still big differences in how the reform should be. we have three problems with the stability and growth pact. firstly, fiscal consolidation has always been put on the back burner. secondly, the commission has allowed far too much flexibility. and thirdly, the commission has not been as bold as it should have been in enforcing the rules, because it has never - i repeat, never - made use of the sanctions. the commission's three solutions are: more time, more flexibility and weaker sanctions. with all due respect, that's not the right solution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the commission will not be able to accept them. we have to make some adjustments in the legislative process. that's the last thing i'm gonna say about you giving us so little time. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained. it's not fair that you're giving us so little time to deliberate this intensely.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, these new proposals for economic governance rules were necessary and urgent. the world has changed. in the face of the post-covid situation, in the face of the energy crisis, in the face of the responses we have to make to inflation, the current rules are no longer appropriate. we need to invest massively to achieve our common goals of green and digital transitions and strategic autonomy. european sovereignty necessarily passes through economic sovereignty. we need these common rules to guarantee our monetary union and the sustainability of our finances. we owe it to our future generations. to do this, we must be realistic about our present situation and learn from the past. the best jams don't always come from old pots. the uniform rules on debt or deficit reduction have proved ineffective. we must beware of the return of the simple concept of austerity as the only compass for financing public finances. let us be realistic, pragmatic and forward-looking, investments and reforms will be essential to support our growth and the resilience of our economy.
mr president, commissioner, your record is scratched. in the name of debt and deficit, how many civil servants do you want to fire? how old do you have to be to work? how many more hospital beds do you want to close? the truth is, no amount of sacrifice will ever be enough to satisfy your debt obsession. your disk is scratched. you yourself had acknowledged this when you suspended your budgetary rules and proposed their revision. but i imagine you're saying, "eureka!" what if we proposed pretty much the same rules that have thrown us right into the wall? you drive austerity out, it comes back at a gallop. your disk is scratched. we're talking about public services and the dignity of people. you're responding to budget cuts and structural reforms. behind the numbers, your austere divisions and subtractions, there are only abstractions, but a painful reality for millions of people who will suffer a reduction in their unemployment benefits, have to wait longer in lines at already overcrowded emergency rooms, see their schools or maternity wards closed. all without any democratic debate about who should pay. because, strangely, you never ask the states to raise taxes on billionaires or big multinationals to reduce debt. no, i'm not going. it's always the poor who pay the price. commissioner, your record is scratched and it reminds us all too much of the titanic orchestra, which continues to play while the ship is sinking.
mr president, the review of the stability and growth pact is not only about bringing back a reinvented pact with strong enforcement, including the rule of law mechanism, allowing for progressive consolidation of public finance and investing in the future. there is much more than a macroeconomic angle to it, and recently implemented reforms should be incorporated into the governance framework. sustainability of the debt is fundamental in the long run, but in parallel we need to strengthen the role of fiscal policy in shifting europe away from its business model, and use public investment to boost changes to the way we run europe and its structural change. we are now pivoting to a completely different world and we need to focus collectively on economic resilience and security without abandoning the competitiveness perspective. there is a need to move away from strategic dependencies without switching to new ones. with a growing risk of a global subsidy race, smart use of public money becomes a bigger challenge than ever, and european public goods are crucial when national economies suffer from limited fiscal space, when you cannot just cut the debt but grow your way out of debt, and when a broader group of actors have to be brought into this pivot towards a different world.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the reform of the stability and growth pact was more than overdue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is therefore positive that the commission has learned lessons, that it has created a spending rule. it is good that the commission has learned its lesson and is no longer bound by rigid mining regulations. the consequence of this is that the commission now wants to negotiate with each member state behind closed doors what its budgetary situation should be. i wonder where the parliaments are. the proposal merely repeats the old economic dialogue, and that does not help us. no, if the commission wants to have more power - and, ladies and gentlemen of the right, the commission is elected - then it must be properly controlled, and more so than before. the medium-term structural and fiscal plans in the member states should be discussed in the national parliaments and adopted by the national parliaments. then we'll take it a step further. and, commissioner, what happened to the investment clause? we need more flexibility, but that only goes against purpose.
mr president, mr vice-president, madam minister, i think we are all welcoming the relaxation of the budgetary rules. it is indeed welcome. it's a first step in the right direction. now it's up to us to make it better. the blind spot in this reform, and indeed in the debate we are having today, is the question of revenue. finally, we are still talking about the question of expenditure, the question of rules. if we take public finance seriously, we also look at revenue, especially if we need public investment, which we will. i have two suggestions. a proposal, of course, which we discussed yesterday, is to have budgetary capacity at european level, but also to have, why not, a fiscal rule, that is to say, to say to countries: 'you have the possibility of spending more, but in this case, finance.' and what does funding involve, when you are a state? it's just through the tax office. this would also allow us to put some order into the tax system that has been destroyed by 40 years of globalisation. and then another point: to avoid spending is also not to save the banks and therefore it is good to regulate the banks.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr chancellor, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the house. i, too, would like to welcome you to the european parliament. this is all the more so as germany's european commitment has been constant over the past decades. i must say that your coalition, mr chancellor, has given new impetus to this commitment in recent months and this was to be expected. in this respect, renew is proud that some of our proposals, such as the transnational lists, the end of unanimity - you mentioned the principles in foreign policy - which we so lack in relation to china, which is also supported by the fdp in germany, are now the official ones of the german government. this new determination to think about the europe of tomorrow is essential, and the speech in prague was, mr chancellor, welcome. we, the members of the european parliament, ask this vision of the european capitals. the one that changed the world. crisis management is not enough. now we must anticipate them, prevent them. preventing future ones, but also building and planning. let's take the energy, mr. chancellor. we've made it through the winter, we've made efforts, diversified our supplies, accelerated renewables. we have done some work here in the european parliament to that end. but the next winter is a real challenge, and we need more electricity as our consumption explodes. so we need to generate more electricity and it needs to be decarbonised. what are your proposals at european level to make our continent the leading energy provider of tomorrow? germany also has a great responsibility for the stability of the electricity grid throughout the european union, and for solidarity, being also the largest economy in the european union. in the digital world, our continent has been able to impose its own ethics, its own model. i am confident that we will be the first to set international standards on ai, as we have done for the digital giants and e-commerce. but europe must not be there just to check technological disruptions. it must be the engine. we have to be the land of investment for artificial intelligence, and quantum. we know that there is still a lot to be done in this area to reduce the obstacles to investment and training. the green transition, like the digital transition, are the two pillars of our european sovereignty. they will be successful not only because of the action of europe and the states, but also because we will provide a favourable, predictable and sustainable framework for our companies to invest in them. i will end, mr chancellor, with something concerning my group, renew europe, by reminding you of our commitment to the european union's massive support for ukraine, in terms of financing, training, material assistance and, yes, also in terms of arms. and i would like to commend the efforts of the european commission and particularly commissioner breton in this area in recent weeks. my group will continue to push every day for every state to contribute more so that ukraine can win this war. germany has made some decisive choices on this issue, but perhaps you can tell us what the next steps are in your commitment to assist ukraine. our europe must also be faithful to the sacrifices of the ukrainians, in that we must now provide the institutional framework in which we find ourselves to welcome other european countries. those who today have chosen democracy, our values, our european dna. so, mr chancellor, you ended with a quote, and i shall also end with a quote, from a great social democrat, this time french, jacques delors, who said that 'europe is like a bicycle: if it does not move forward, it falls'. i hope that collectively we can make it happen.
madam president, mr chancellor, let us be frank: the differences between our countries often become worrying. my country, france, has its responsibility. but behind the words, your coalition ends up putting europe in danger. you talk about 'united europe', but after imposing austerity everywhere, you launch the 'double wumms' without warning anyone: a massive support plan for the german economy, much less for the other european countries that will be permanently destabilised. you say we must speak with one voice, but you go to china alone to maintain our positions there at the cost of our dependencies. you talk about solidarity, but when you close your last nuclear power stations in the middle of the energy crisis, the bills are getting heavier in all our countries. your elected representatives are doing everything they can to stifle this industry, in the name of ecology, i hear. but your ministers are expanding coal mines in germany and they're polluting all of europe. you say that europe must control the flow of migrants, but you do everything to increase it in germany. you said, mr chancellor, that none of us wants to go back to the days when the law of the strongest prevailed in europe. it can't just be words. hannah arendt wrote: "a crisis is only then an evil, if it has already been judged, it will also be answered with judgments". mr. chancellor, it is high time we put ourselves in question.
the reporter. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i am glad that we are having this debate on how the european institutions are performing on europe day itself, and i think we should start by saying that, in general, our institutions are functioning well, as is clear from most of the reports we are discussing today. the european union delivers results, delivers peace and delivers prosperity and continues to offer the hope and the european dream that countries like ukraine and the republic of moldova aspire to. i think it is our duty to say today 'thank you, europe, and thank you to all those who believe and work every day for the european union!' today too we must say loud and clear that the european project must be strengthened. europe is the scapegoat of those unable to take responsibility for their own mistakes, europe is the preferred target of extremists and populists, and europe is often the main subject of fake news. those of us who care about europe need to be much more vocal and say today more than ever that europe is the future and that europe must be prepared for the future. we must democratise the union by giving this parliament the right of legislative initiative. we must give up the unanimity in the council, which leads to the confiscation of decisions by populists. we need to listen to the voices of the citizens we heard at the conference on the future of europe: health skills, more participatory democracy are just some of their key demands. last but not least, we need to start a convention to amend the treaties to adapt the union to the changes we are going through. thank you and happy birthday, europe!
i'm the reporter. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a happy european day to you all. i would like to begin by reiterating the strong commitment of my group, renew europe, to the commission's funding of non-governmental organisations. if we are so attached to this funding, it is because, as you know, we are very committed to the conference on the future of europe, which must become for us a new way of writing european policies. hand in hand with the citizens, hand in hand with the ngos who are its spokesmen. but it is precisely because we are so attached to this funding of non-governmental organisations that work to make the values that bring us together prevail that we are today asking the commission to be more transparent and more vigilant in examining applications in advance of the allocation of funds. because we want to make sure that these funds are not taken over by non-governmental organizations which, under the guise of defending our values, would actually undermine them. i am thinking of equality between women and men. i am also thinking of freedom of conscience, which is the foundation of our european pact, which is recognised by article 9 of the european convention on human rights, and which allows every european citizen to believe or not to believe, to stop believing, to change his or her religion, to practice religion as he or she chooses. and we must therefore ensure that every man, every woman who returns to european soil, sometimes precisely to escape the pressures in their country of origin which did not allow them to practice their religion freely, can enjoy this freedom of expression. however, some non-governmental organisations do not fall within this respect for freedom of expression, and we must have the courage to recognise that any non-governmental organisation which falls within a form of religious fundamentalism would not have any legitimacy to receive european funds. we owe it to all those women and men who come to europe as a land of freedom. i am thinking in particular, of course, of our sisters in iran who are now suffering under the yoke of a regime that requires the wearing of the veil. how could we imagine that young women or older women who arrive on european soil could, in some way, be subjected to this kind of pressure? this pressure will not come from the state, of course, but from organisations, from elements of civil society, who are part of islamism, for example, and who do not respect this freedom of conscience which is fundamental to us. and when i say this, i am motivated by my desire to protect first and foremost our fellow citizens who are of muslim culture or religion, and who may suffer here or there in our territories, these pressures that are unbearable to me because they are contrary to our fundamental values. so that's what i wanted to say to you here, by reaffirming, as i did at the beginning, our commitment to all the non-governmental organizations that work to promote the values that we hold dear. and it is important and moving for me to say this to you today on this europe day.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, president of the european court of auditors, each year, the granting of discharge is not, contrary to what one might think, a purely technical matter. it is a highly political issue. european citizens have the right to expect us to verify and certify whether or not the union's budget is being properly managed. and this evaluation is not just an accounting study. you know that our committee on budgetary control, with the help of the court of auditors, is working on this with the greatest rigor and vigilance. so every year, i have two regrets, always the same. the first is that our debate should take place 18 months after the end of the financial year in question, in this case 2021. i think we could all collectively try to go faster to be more up to date. and i also regret, and this is my second regret, that most of our energy in this plenary session is being spent on amendments that have nothing to do with the 2021 financial year, but are amendments that are aimed at trying to change our operating rules in a way that is not suitable for this. however, as regards the discharge to our parliament for the financial year 2021, we have placed a sad focus on the issues of ethics and transparency in the light of qatargate and the deviations that may have occurred within our parliament itself, which we obviously regret and condemn with the greatest firmness. we are proud of the fact that we have been able to react with determination, force and speed, while being aware that no procedure, no new form will prevent a corrupt being. the proposals of our president metsola, adopted by the conference of presidents and by our bureau, are currently on the agenda of the various committees and commissions responsible for their implementation. some measures are already in place, for example the six-month grace period for former members and the revision of the conditions for former members and interest representatives to enter the european parliament. we have to go further. we would remind you that it is imperative that interest representatives are subject to the same rules and the same transparency requirements, whatever they may be, for all those who, in some way, wish to influence our debates, an influence which is legitimate, provided we know collectively with whom we are dealing. and non-governmental organisations are just as concerned as other entities, particularly private companies. finally, ladies and gentlemen, we call once again on the commission to submit as soon as possible an ambitious and challenging proposal for the creation of an independent european institutional ethics body. you know that our parliament adopted this position 18 months ago. the current situation makes this even more urgent and we hope very much that this body will be established and operational by the end of our mandate.
madam president, on the occasion of the vote on the frontex discharge, let me say what i saw in menton, on the border between france and italy. what i saw in menton was a double bankruptcy: first of the french government, and then of the european union, which emptied frontex of its original role in the fight against illegal immigration. in menton, the inhabitants and the public authorities are faced with a massive influx of migrants who enter our country without any control, and to settle there against the will of the french people. by turning frontex into a travel agency for migrants, by sending the disastrous signal that you can come to europe uninvited, you have turned our borders into a sieve and our countries into hotels. european taxpayers do not want you to use their money to overwhelm them, but to protect them. faced with the challenge of migration, naivety is no longer possible. the time has come for firm and determined action to protect the peoples of europe. i call on you to protect its borders.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, have you seen the report by france télévisions in which the president of the commission and albert bourla of pfizer are tearing down the walls in davos and strasbourg? and yet today you give the commission a big push for 2021, the year of all records: €71 billion in contracts to 'big pharma'. so congratulations to the commission for ordering ten doses per person. good job hiding the contracts, the texts and the prices. good for you for buying the doses for almost 20 euros when they cost 80 cents at pfizer-biontech. good for you for compensating pfizer for the doses they won't produce. good for you, buying doses up to 2026. good job getting pfizer-biontech off the side effects bill. the expertise of this commission is like the 95% efficacy of pfizer: who can believe it anymore? let's talk about your loan through 2058, variable rate. how many billions lost to the banks? variable rate, what foresight!
question no 1 by mr pimenta i have a question, because the best way to prevent violence is through education. i'd like to greet the salagou students who are here. what image do we give to these children, these girls, these boys and especially to these teachers, if we refuse to explain the difference in school? because we'll explain the difference in school, then we won't have violence in adult life. so what do you say to this refusal to want to educate about gender in school?
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to address the gentlemen in this camp who are obviously talking about the istanbul convention without knowing anything about it. the istanbul convention is an extraordinary legislative tool, and you can go to the grevio website and you can see in your country that has ratified the convention, all the good practices that are being exchanged between the member states with very good results. and that is why we must be at the rendezvous of history tomorrow. six member states have not ratified, that is six too many. we've been waiting six years. tomorrow we must give a response to the women who suffer physical and sexual violence in our union. one out of three. during the pandemic, this violence has increased. we cannot wait any longer to ratify the convention and have harmonized definitions of violence against women, as well as this comprehensive framework of legal and political measures to prevent violence, support victims and punish perpetrators. tomorrow's vote is a historic opportunity to demonstrate once and for all that the european parliament stands by women and girls: every vote counts. ladies and gentlemen, it is the lives and rights of our mothers, sisters and daughters that must be protected. we have no excuse.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, the war that is tearing sudan apart has been brewing for a long time. our parliament had not anticipated anything and was simply relaying what ngos, more or less neutral, were saying about khartoum. one thing is certain: everything must be done as soon as possible to renew the ceasefire and to use it to build a lasting peace. peace will inevitably come about through the integration of all armed forces into the transitional power mechanism. if sudan were to flare up for long, the crisis could greatly destabilize its neighbourhood. the central african republic is moving away from its historical friends like france. chad could be disturbed as the european union does not support president deby. and it is urgent that the european union disburses the 10 million euros promised to chad through the peace facility. eritrea and ethiopia also remain major suppliers of migrants who could use the chaos to join smuggling networks. in the face of this imminent danger, it is urgent to strengthen our partnership with egypt, the only state capable of helping us to prevent a new wave of migration and which already hosts millions of sudanese refugees.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, the european union is not a friend of the serbian people. the list of demands it has on belgrade is endless, while brussels is constantly supporting kosovo's demands. the european institutions have supported the amputation of serbia's historic birthplace, kosovo. since then, brussels has been failing more and more when it tries to reach a final agreement between belgrade and pristina. perhaps she's trying to make people forget her support for nato, which bombed belgrade. recent local elections in kosovo's serb municipalities saw a turnout of barely 3%. almost no serbs wanted to participate in this vote. it is a new camouflage for the european union and its friends in pristina. at the same time, the european union is putting pressure on serbia to transform its political and social life. brussels would like to sever belgrade from its historic friendship with russia, in particular by now dictating its foreign policy. we have no interest in building a european perspective in the balkans if it is based on the atlanticism that brussels wants to impose on serbia. when he speaks to the french, emmanuel macron tells them, hand on heart, there will be no enlargement. in brussels, however, its elected representatives are announcing a europe of 35 or 40 and supporting all the resolutions calling for the immediate integration of the candidate countries. this morning they applauded chancellor scholz, calling for a rapid enlargement to the six balkan countries. the european federalists are lying to their own people as much as to the serbian people, whether in brussels or paris.
madam president, please. the european year of skills could not have started at a better time: the final exams in hungary started this week. i wish the young people here good luck. the most important skills are not just in knowledge. knowledge of foreign languages or digital skills is essential to find a good quality job, but adaptability and the ability to respond to challenges with focus are also important. but there are new challenges. we live in a world where algorithms can answer our questions instantly. therefore, we must learn to handle information correctly, to interpret and use data correctly. it is important that our available resources are used by young citizens of the european union. this issue should always be a priority.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, today is europe day and the european year of skills is being launched. it's no accident that we chose this topic. our aim is to promote citizens' interest and involvement in lifelong learning and to improve skills, especially where they are lacking, namely in the area of digital technologies. we know that one in three people in the european workforce lack these skills, and we cannot accept that. 22% of young people say that the main problem in finding a job in the labour market is the lack of the necessary skills. we are aware of the differences between citizens, between regions, and we want to change that. we need to support the students, the teachers and the schools. i welcome the digital education action plan and the introduction of a european digital education framework, which can help to bridge the gap and improve skills levels. commissioner, the european year of skills should build on the legacy of the european year of youth. one of the priorities of young people is the mutual recognition of diplomas and qualifications, and this as soon as possible. young people are aware of the added value of mobility and skills acquired through erasmus+ and the european solidarity corps. i look forward to working with all of you to make a successful year of skills.
thank you, prime minister, minister, commissioner. the designation of this year as the year of skills offers many opportunities to focus and focus on the european labour market and its challenges and to find the right solutions, to help our people adapt successfully to changes in the labour market and to help our businesses become more competitive and innovative. europe's competitiveness depends directly on the success of its enterprises and, above all, on the skills and qualifications of the people who work in them. however, europe's deteriorating demographic situation is having an impact on the labour market. we have a shortage of workers in health care, service, construction services. there is a shortage of both high and low-skilled workers, with up to a quarter of smes in the european union facing a shortage of workers. we must therefore invest in the acquisition of new skills, in their adaptation to the needs of the labour market, and pay particular attention to education and training programmes so that young people can acquire the skills they need and demand. and there is no way that we can forget about adult learning. thank you. thank you.
madam president, commissioner, mr nicolas schmit, ladies and gentlemen, at this very moment a draft law on the mobility of trainees for an erasmus apprenticeship is being discussed in the national assembly in paris. of course, this date was not chosen at random. we are celebrating today, on this europe day, the launch of the european year of skills and that is what brings us together in this house. erasmus is one of the great successes of our europe, but it is still too often perceived by our fellow citizens as being reserved for students only. what we are doing together is democratizing european mobility. every young person, whether a student, apprentice or vocational lyceum student, must be able to seize this opportunity offered to him by europe. the european commission is about to launch a proposal for a framework for apprenticeship mobility. the recognition of skills acquired during mobility must be fully integrated. let's start a bologna process of the professional path. because, in the end, what will enable us to convince the most reluctant young people and families of european mobility is that it is recognised throughout europe in terms of employability. recognition of technical skills, of course, but also of those skills that are so difficult to transmit and so essential in the professional world and that are called the skills of the 21st century, the ability to communicate, to adapt, to work in teams, to innovate, to get out of your comfort zone. and why not start with the areas of tension and strategic for our industrial sovereignty? this year of skills gives us the opportunity to make the strength of european mobility known to all our young people and to all employers in europe. the stakes are social and political.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, 1990: the first report of the ipcc. 2023: the first european year of skills for the green transition. in 2023, in france, student unions still expect sustainable development to be a compulsory subject in all courses. look for the mistake. some people say it's a sudden change. i am denouncing 33 years of inaction hidden behind the myth of profitability and growth. with 14% of young people unemployed or untrained and only 23% of energy employees female, we ecologists are proposing a solidarity and inclusive transition. the transition is accompanied by innovative training projects, from bac +4, such as the return to employment of those who have been left behind. a transition that gives new value to learning, at a time when vocational schools are about to be sacrificed in france. if the transition in europe is to be successful, commissioner, look no further, listen to the environmentalists.
madam president, commissioner, today is europe day. and today also marks the start of the european year of competence, a way of moving forward in building the european project. because one of the pillars on which the union is based is education. and yes, we need a trained and educated population to address digital and sustainable transitions. but we can only do that through strong and resilient public education systems. public education systems that ensure quality education for all citizens. we come from the creation of the european skills agenda and the skills pact and we are moving towards the creation of a european education area by 2025. the most ambitious european project since the creation of erasmus. this is the way. education and training are the foundations on which to build a better society. let us use this year to implement effective actions to improve the skills of our students and workers.
madam president, today, as we launch the european year of skills, i would like to call for the opportunities it will bring to be truly accessible to everyone. it is crucial that opportunities for skills are also available to vulnerable groups, people from disadvantaged backgrounds or people with disabilities. at the same time, i would like to stress that it is important that skills are not only those that are geared towards employment and economic growth and benefit. we also need to pay attention to so-called soft or transversal skills, which are equally important for our personal and professional lives and include, for example, critical thinking, creativity, language skills or digital and media literacy. finally, we need to think about the next steps after we acquire a skill. and that includes their official recognition. in this context, i would like to highlight in particular the need to recognise skills acquired in an informal way, in particular through volunteering, which is an invaluable experience not only for young people but also for older age groups.
madam president, i would like to thank you. there is a shortage of skills throughout europe. inequality and disparity in the labour market persist and the situation is urgent. if this is the case, then this is the question that will determine our competitiveness in the future. in this context, sweden is no exception. but that is where the right-wing conservative government is failing the country's wage earners, by cutting funding for education and skills. this is totally irresponsible! if we are serious about tackling the skills shortage, we must have the courage to prioritize and make education available to more and more people. then a bunch of powerpoint and theories won't help. this calls for concrete action and solutions. first, companies must take their share of the responsibility. the validation and recognition of skills needs to be improved. a well-functioning social dialogue must be ensured to ensure the supply of skills, in accordance with the needs of the sectors. the european year of skills is this year. the question of skills provision is not a question of cost, but rather an investment in the future. so it's time to move from words to action.
madam president, madam minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, vocational training is finally regaining its former glory. with this european year of skills, of course, but above all with the major changes we are making to re-industrialize our continent and to create the jobs of the ecological transition. we need new skills in construction, in digital, in tourism, in industry, in energy and in transport. everywhere, there are rewarding career opportunities for young people. this requires companies to engage in mentoring and paid internships. we must also make greater use of the opportunities offered by erasmus, which, as we will recall, is open to apprenticeships and vocational training. to share our european skills better and because the employment pools are on both sides of our european borders. finally, we are of course counting on you, commissioner, to make this year of competence a year of concrete achievements.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i would like to thank the president-in-office. the time has passed from buy, use and throw away culture. instead, we consumers will shop green. and the companies have actually understood that, too. and that's why it's crawling the shelves with brown wrapping paper products with self-invented labeling schemes and printed words that praise the product's sustainability, recyclability and biodegradability. but beneath it may be products that become obsolete prematurely or are more difficult and expensive to repair. as a consumer, it is really hard to find the truly green products in the forest of companies of "green washing". it must end now, and that is why i would like to thank biljana borzan for this really good report, whereby we can really put an end to completely unfair commercial practices that put consumers at a disadvantage in the green transition with this law. consumers must be able to see how sustainable the product they are putting in their basket is. how long is the life span? can it be repaired? can i trust the labelling scheme? consumers want these things to work better. the ones you've finished buying, use and throw away. and so the producers must also help to support this, so that they do better and they do it more honestly.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we want a europe of practical solutions. today, 9 may, we recall the schuman declaration which indicated, in concrete terms, the way forward for building the european union. we want a europe that multiplies opportunities, rights and protections. we want a europe that is consistent with its social choices, and the proposal on consumer empowerment is a very concrete example of that europe. it is impossible to achieve our objectives of the ecological transition without modernising the single market. we need to build a fairer and more transparent relationship between producers and consumers. we must encourage and support our businesses to overcome the challenges of the circular economy together. how many times have we been told that a common sense practice that should be common and mandatory is too green? how many times do our cell phones, our washing machines, get stuck irreparably when it's obvious they could last much longer? that is why we are adapting the single market, to enable consumers to make environmentally friendly choices and to encourage companies to offer them sustainable products. we are attacking eco-bleaching, which is used far too often by some companies to improve their image. and we want to put an end to the premature and planned obsolescence of products, and to fight against misleading claims that insidiously encourage consumers to make purchases that are not necessary at all. we also want to guarantee the right to redress, which must become a common practice, and to ensure better consumer information, while encouraging small businesses' sustainability initiatives. in concrete terms, we will drastically reduce the number of false labels that promote products as sustainable when they are not. we said so in this house and we have done so. let us now be equally ambitious and swift in negotiating with governments, for 150 million consumers and citizens are waiting for us at the corner.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, and madam borzan, thank you. thank you very much for handling this difficult negotiation with a master hand. between the definitions that each of them gave to greenwashing, between the difficulties we have in convincing a number of our colleagues to understand that the european internal market will never be the same again with the ecological constraints that are ours. the consumer society has become a consumer society, and we need to be the first economic entity, the first in the world to understand this decisive turn that we must take. and we were able to make sure that this greenwashing, which is making what is not sustainable look sustainable, with hypothetical compensatory measures, is actually over. the commission is also proposing that the issue of the penalisation of the sale of products which cause premature obsolescence be included in the lists of unfair practices and i hope that the commission and the council will support this revolution in the way consumers think. and finally, an extended right to repair so that instead of spending money on new products, we can repair them. we will have to make further progress on certain issues, such as the issue of software updates which must clearly distinguish between security and functionality. but still, good work! there are still many texts to be studied to further modernise our market in the direction of sustainability, and we will do so with determination.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, commissioner, dear biljana, thank you for this text. 'good for the environment', 'green product', 'eco-friendly', '100% recycled materials' - these are all the arguments put on their products by companies, suggesting that they are promoting sustainable consumption. the problem is that often this information is simply wrong. it is a shameless and indecent deception of consumers. we can only look at total or shell with their reports and their communication dripping with phony environmental benevolence. i say this with my colleagues: greenwashing is a real scourge. and beyond words, let's look at deeds. in practice, this is not a good thing. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and fraudulent practices. and it is no longer possible, in 2023, given the climate emergency we are going through, to tolerate companies trying to buy a conscience and exonerate themselves with these false environmental arguments. it is a total disregard for the consumer. and let us not mistake the target, individual consumers must not be blamed. they already want to consume sustainably, and it is the whole system that needs to be reviewed. and it is up to companies to take responsibility. some are already doing so and we must support them. i regret, however, that some of my colleagues have tried to weaken the text to such an extent, and again tonight, and i wondered, in the face of this bad faith on the right, whether we all live on the same planet, the same planet that is burning and where these same colleagues on the right, with their hands on their hearts, enthusiastically voted for the green deal. this text is welcome as a means of empowering consumers to be actors in the ecological transition. and it's a sad thing to think that nature speaks and some politicians don't even listen to it.
madam chairman, i am convinced that milk, dairy products, fruit, belongs in schools. i supported this report. in the czech republic, we have already had quite good experience with this project, although of course it has not always been so. some problems with implementation at the specific, perhaps regional, level had to be overcome, but in general it is good to encourage good eating habits in children and young people, to simplify administrative procedures. that is what we are seeking to do with this proposal. so we need to do away with a little bit of european bureaucracy and also make this programme more efficient, to promote regional products. i would also like to support the call for redistribution of funds from under-utilising countries to those that have been supporting the programme for a long time. i think it would increase the effectiveness of this program as such.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 13 july 2023.
dear colleagues, good afternoon and welcome to this plenary session. this week, on 16 september, we will mark one year since the murder of mahsa amini in iran. i will reiterate now that the european parliament proudly stands with those brave, defiant women and men who continue to fight for equality, for dignity and for freedom in iran. we stand with those who even from prison continue to keep the ‘women, life, freedom’ movement alive: narges mohammadi, bahareh hedayat, nasrin javadi, golrokh iraee, sepideh gholian and many, many others. we also reiterate our strongest condemnation of the iranian regime for taking eu and dual nationals hostage, and call namely for the immediate release of eu official johan floderus and professor ahmad reza djalali. tomorrow, this house will remember and honour the legacy of mahsa amini and all those who have paid the ultimate price for liberty. dear colleagues, dangerous weather conditions have affected large parts of europe causing widespread damage, devastation and death. major wildfires and floods have caused severe impacts on member states such as spain, bulgaria, slovenia and italy. greece, particularly, continues to face devastating floods that have already claimed the lives of at least 15 people after many wildfires across the country. the european union has already provided crucial assistance to the affected countries and regions and we will continue to do whatever is necessary. tomorrow i will welcome prime minister kyriakos mitsotakis, where i will reiterate the european parliament’s solidarity with greece and its people and where we will continue to discuss eu assistance. our hearts go out to all those who have had their lives and livelihoods destroyed over the summer, and i underline that our eu institutions will keep supporting those countries that need it.
ladies and gentlemen, two days ago we heard the tragic news in morocco, where a devastating earthquake killed thousands of people and injured many more. the scenes are horrific, with many injured and many homeless. i have written to the president of the moroccan parliament to express our deepest solidarity and to stress that in the aftermath of this unspeakable tragedy, europe is ready to help. parliament paid tribute to the victims and their relatives and to the entire moroccan people at this difficult and tragic time. i also have the sad duty to inform you of the death of our colleague and dear friend véronique trillet-lenoir on 9 august 2023. veronique was a woman of skill, but she was also a woman of service and duty. she has gone through this ordeal with the dignity of a woman who has dedicated her life to helping others as a doctor, a teacher, a member of this european parliament and a pillar of her community. whether it's her academic expertise or her career as an oncologist, veronique has dedicated herself entirely to the health of europeans. as a member of this assembly, his work to lay the foundations for a european health union is a testament to his unwavering commitment. my dear colleagues, veronique fought to the end with courage, dignity and an unwavering sense of duty to europe and to europeans. his fight is now ours. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express my sincere condolences to the family of véronique, who is joining us in this house today. you must all be very proud of her, the french parliamentary delegation and the renew group. this assembly mourns him and pays tribute to his legacy. we will remember her. i now give the floor to mrs nathalie loiseau.
madam president, thank you for your words. the news came in the heart of summer like a thunderbolt: veronique had left us. most of us were unaware that she was suffering from the disease she had fought all her life as a doctor and as a member of the european parliament. we had no idea that by putting so much effort into the cancer plan, veronique was giving us a sign, sharing her will and asking us to take the torch back. the discretion with which veronique chose to face the illness, and her determination to invest herself in her mandate to the end, speak volumes about her. veronique was made to be a member of the european parliament, just as she was made to care for others. his patients, his fellow doctors, his friends all remember his blend of empathy and rigor, of kindness and concern to call things by their right names, to face reality, and to make a clear distinction between science and belief. she never gave up on her patients, despite her term as an mp. she had come to the european parliament with a strong intuition: the idea that it was time to build the europe of health. the pandemic proved him right and we all saw the strength of his convictions, but also his ability to listen, to dialogue, to understand and to compromise. very soon, veronique understood that here, you don't win a battle alone, but by rallying others, in your camp and beyond. those who mourn her today in this room are not only french, not only members of renew europe. they're german, romanian, dutch, spanish. they come from almost every political color. i say almost, for she abhorred the extremes and among them, the health conspirators whom she fought to her last breath. veronique was not afraid of political strife. she was a strong and fragile woman, determined and smiling, rigorous and philosophical about human nature. our parliament, our political group and our delegation were fortunate to have him as a colleague. like many of us, i was lucky to have her as a friend.
thank you, mrs. loiseau. i ask you now to observe a minute of silence in his memory and in honor of all those who lost their lives.
the minutes and the texts adopted of the sitting of 13 july are available. are there any comments? that does not seem to be the case. thereby, the minutes are approved.
following the election of esteban gonzález pons and adriana maldonado lópez as members of the spanish chamber of deputies, parliament takes note of the vacancy of their seats from 17 august 2023, in accordance with the rules of procedure. the competent authorities of france have notified me of the election of catherine amalric to the european parliament, replacing véronique trillet-lenoir with effect from 10 august 2023. the competent authorities of the netherlands have notified me of the election of anja haga to the european parliament, replacing peter van dalen with respect from 5 september 2023. the competent authorities of spain have notified me of the election of ana collado jiménez and of laura ballarín cereza to the european parliament, replacing esteban gonzález pons and adriana maldonado lópez, respectively, with effect from 6 september 2023. (applause) i wish to welcome our new colleagues, and i recall that they take their seats in parliament and its bodies in full enjoyment of their rights, pending the verification of their credentials.
on the proposal of the committee on legal affairs, parliament verifies the credentials of christophe clergeau, with effect from 2 june 2023, thomas rudner, with effect from 3rd july 2023, and carlos coelho, with effect from 7 july 2023.
i have received a request from clara ponsatí obiols for the defence of her parliamentary immunity in the context of legal proceedings in spain. this request has been referred to the committee on legal affairs.
i have received a request from the competent authorities in germany for the parliamentary immunity of gunnar beck to be waived. this request has been referred to the committee on legal affairs.
elisabetta de blasis is no longer a member of the id group and sits with the non-attached members as of 11 september 2023.
the s&d and renew europe groups have notified me of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees and delegations. these decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and take effect on the date of this announcement.
several committees have decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) of the rules of procedure. the reports which constitute the mandates for the negotiations are available on the plenary web page, and their titles will be published in the minutes of the sitting. pursuant to rule 71(2), two members of political groups reaching at least the medium threshold may request in writing by tomorrow, 12 september, at midnight, that the decisions be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in parliament is made within the deadline, the committees may start negotiations.
i was informed that no objections have been raised within the conference of committee chairs to the recommendations by the agri committee not to oppose two delegated acts pursuant to rule 111(6) of the rules of procedure. the recommendations are available on the plenary webpage. if no objections are raised, by a political group or members reaching at least the low threshold, within 24 hours, the recommendations shall be deemed to have been approved; otherwise they will put be put to the vote.
the libe committee has transmitted a correction to a text adopted by parliament, pursuant to rule 241(4). this corrigendum will be deemed approved unless, no later than 24 hours after its announcement, a request is made by a political group or members reaching at least the low threshold that it be put to the vote. the corrigendum is available on the plenary webpage. its title will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
i would like to inform you that since the adjournment of parliament’s session on 13 july i have signed, together with the president of the council, two acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with rule 79. i would also like to inform you that on wednesday i shall sign, together with the president of the council, five acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure. the titles of the acts will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
we now come to the order of business. the final draft agenda as adopted by the conference of presidents on 6 september pursuant to rule 157 has been distributed. with the agreement of the political groups, i wish to put to the house the following proposal for a change to the final draft agenda, that on tuesday a debate on the report by mr vincze and mr gozi on the draft european council decision establishing the composition of the european parliament is added as the first point in the morning. the debate will be followed by a round of political group speakers. as a consequence the sitting will start at 8.30. if there are no objections, those changes are approved. we now move to changes requested by the political groups. for tuesday, the left group has requested that a statement by the vice—president / high representative on ‘50 years since the murder of allende and the coup in chile: democracy and sovereignty’ be added as the fourth point in the afternoon with one round of political group speakers. i give the floor to mr manu pineda to move the request on behalf of the left group.
thank you very much, mr pineda. i will put the request to a vote by show of hands. who is in favour? who is against? who abstains? we will check. i was thinking no roll-calls today, but. the vote is open. the vote is closed. it is adopted, and therefore the agenda will be changed. for wednesday, the renew group has requested ‘council and commission statements on aid to the most deprived in the context of rising precariousness in europe’ to be added as the fifth point in the afternoon. as a consequence, the sitting would be extended to midnight. i have received other alternative proposals from the epp, the left and the s&d group, which i will read out. the epp proposal is for ‘council and commission statements on aid to the most deprived in the context of rising inequalities and the middle-class squeeze in the eu’. the left proposal is for ‘council and commission statements on aid to the most deprived in the context of rising precariousness in europe and the contribution of the wealthiest’. the s&d proposal is for ‘council and commission statements on rising precariousness in europe, including the rising need for aid to the most deprived’. i give the floor first to ms sylvie brunet to move the request on behalf of the renew group.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the renew group, i would like to ask, pursuant to rule 158, for a vote on an addition to the agenda at the opening of this part-session. our group would like to propose the addition of a council and commission statement on aid to the most deprived in the context of growing precariousness in europe, without resolution. the debate would be added on wednesday afternoon as the fifth item. the session would therefore be extended by one hour. why this request, colleagues? in several member states, the situation is becoming alarming for many associations helping the most deprived. with food price inflation, aid demands are exploding, and operating costs are rising, with rising energy costs in particular. finally, donations are sadly decreasing, or no longer sufficient. all indicators are in the red, the figures are alarming and the food aid organisations are welcoming beneficiaries they have not seen before: elderly people, single parents, students, the unemployed, ukrainian refugees. the problem is that some requests can no longer be honored or will not be honored. on behalf of renew europe, i believe that this issue deserves debate and requires a statement from the commission and the council.
madam president, commissioner, the preservation of water is a major issue, essential to all life on our planet. water must be protected and the pollution of groundwater, oceans and rivers must be taken seriously. but as always, this parliament is piling up punitive standards for our companies without ever taking account of the reality on the ground. while our farmers suffer from climatic conditions and inflation, environmental standards must be reasonable and adapted to local specificities. europe is the continent of excellence and innovation. let us give ourselves the means to succeed in this area instead of stifling economic actors with ever more restrictive standards. in contrast to your punitive europe, we call for a europe of nations which promotes cooperation between states to combat transfrontier pollution. it is only by common sense cooperation that we can effectively combat pollution. the protection of water and the preservation of our environment must not be at the expense of our economy and our farmers. if we want a sustainable future for future generations, it is imperative that we work together.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, many studies have shown that pollutants in surface and groundwater have a strong impact on the health of living creatures and on terrestrial and marine ecosystems. they spread and affect organisms sometimes far from the sources of pollution. however, lakes and rivers account for only 0.01% of the water on earth, groundwater 0.63%, while the ocean accounts for 97.3%. it is the health of this whole great water cycle - the ocean, seas and rivers - that is threatened today. the report stresses the need to strengthen control measures at source. in addition, i am in favour of better coordination between the water framework directive and the marine strategy framework directive. i would also like to stress the pollutants released by plastics in nature, especially since they fragment into micro-particles and represent a time bomb. i would also like to ask the commission, commissioner, to publish the draft regulation on microplastics as soon as possible. water, like the ocean, is a common good. let's make sure we preserve both.
madam president, i come from a country rich in creeks and rivers, abused by governments for not protecting them. so in the debate on this important report, i want to denounce what is happening at the san fins mine. an environmental, economic and social risk, commissioner, to the estuary of muros and noia, rich in fish and shellfish. this complaint is open to the european parliament. despite requests to the galician government for measures to enforce the law and to resolve irregularities, despite complaints of injustice and social and political opposition, the galician government authorized, in february of this year, the discharge of 4 million cubic metres of waste water with contaminating effects. as a result, very high levels of heavy metals were detected in the water, far exceeding the maximum permitted levels. so, commissioner, mr rapporteur, take account of the case of the san fins mine.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i have found it very enriching to listen to the positions and concerns expressed during this debate. and it’s encouraging that so many of the interventions have been supportive of the commission proposal and that there are few points on which honourable members substantially disagree. let me point out first, as regards the watch list, about making it mandatory as some raised, that it will result in increasing the costs and making them unacceptable for member states. under the current voluntary system, the watch list covers up to 30 substances, and the mandatory mechanism would limit the number of substances and monitoring points. for the mechanism to work, it’s important that all member states deliver data, which is currently not the case, and that way we can be sure of correctly identifying the substances that pose a risk at eu level and thus of setting eu quality standards for the right substances. i reiterate my appreciation for the swift and robust work on this proposal, and i very much hope that this pace will continue in the next co-decision stages so that the new law can be adopted before parliament recess. eu citizens are increasingly alarmed about the water quality and the water quantity, about too much or too little water. an update to the list of pollutants is long overdue, and parliament’s support would clearly show that water quality and water quantity are two sides of the same coin. unclean water means less water fit for use. that is a trend we cannot afford and member states must act more decisively to protect the indispensable resource and the ecosystems that depend on it. steps like this take us in the right direction and they help us develop the eu water resilience policy we need in line with the recommendations of the un water conference in the spring of this year.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 12 september. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the amendment of the framework directive on surface and groundwater quality is clearly needed in the context of the increasing number of pollutants present in water. the amount of pollutants from industrial activities, chemical production and the pharmaceutical sector is increasing significantly. their effects on human health are still being studied by scientists. for this reason, i believe that the revision of the water directives is a step in the right direction to provide the necessary knowledge on the amount of pollutants in european waters. however, there is concern about the impact of the new rules on member states' budgets. the addition of new substances to the monitoring range and the modification of existing measurement indicators will entail costly investments linked to the need to purchase new measurement equipment. it should be borne in mind that the responsibility for monitoring water quality is now with the member states and local authorities, and that these are bearing increasing costs. i therefore welcome the introduction of the possibility of establishing so-called 'enhanced producer responsibility'. i support the idea that large industry, which is responsible for the increase in water pollution, should financially support member states' efforts to ensure safe water quality for eu citizens. the possible introduction of the system, after an appropriate analysis by the european commission, will reduce the financial pressure on member states' budgets and ensure proper and compliant water monitoring.
the next item is the debate on the report by gabriele bischoff, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on amendments to parliament’s rules of procedure with a view to strengthening integrity, independence and accountability (2023/2095(reg)) (a9-0262/2023).
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, following the 2022 scandals, it was our duty to improve our internal rules. this is the meaning of the proposal by president metsola and the political groups, and this is the meaning of this report, to which my group is proud to have contributed. thank you to our reporter, gabrielle bischoff, for her work. this report will allow for stricter checks on declarations and conflicts of interest, on relations with representatives of private interests, but also greater transparency on the assets of members. europe is watching us and we must demonstrate on wednesday, when the vote in this house is taken, our ability to draw the consequences of these disastrous events for the image of our parliament and for the image of the european union. beyond that, my group is calling more than ever for the creation of an independent european high ethics authority, common to all the eu institutions, which will help us to establish and implement harmonised standards for all ethical and professional issues. this is more necessary than ever and my group will ensure that it is.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. but this is not a problem of a lack of rules. this is a lack of enforcement. the european parliament is in the eyes of ordinary people a corrupt organisation with corrupt members of parliament. and that's because some members of parliament are just as corrupt. and that's extremely annoying, because it's affecting all of us. corruption is a fact of life, and unfortunately, it's very common. some people are very sensitive to large sums of money, and that is extremely unfortunate for the european parliament and extremely dangerous for democracy. because if the man in the street thinks that mps don't follow the law, why should he do it himself? there is no need for registers and more powers of inquiry, because they already exist. unfortunately, there is no proper risk analysis yet. where is it? where is it? before any analysis is made, we are again faced with measures. and that's not the right order. that's panic football! because where there is a lot of money, there will always be a high risk of fraud and corruption. and that means we have to be on alert here 24/7. members of parliament are vulnerable. what we need is integrity training to make members of parliament more aware of the risks they are taking, so they know what actions lead to possible blackmail and a situation they are willing to oppose. i thank you and wish you the very best.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, this is not going to make the headlines, it will have a thousand times less coverage than qatargate and it is not even close to being the perfect, fresh new start that this parliament needs. but it is a first step towards serious reform, real transparency requirements and preventing future conflicts of interest. here, in this parliament, in which it has been incredibly difficult to have this topic on the agenda for so many years, a parliament which has previously been in favour of shutting down any constraint on its members, this has been a lonely uphill struggle most of the time but since qatargate, we have found a lot more allies in nearly all groups, notably the socialists. before me, there were other green meps fighting for these changes and in the next term others will come, including the new generation, fighting for these changes and coming from all political groups. because total opacity on money and side jobs is no longer acceptable. this cannot be framed as free mandate. there is no unlawful right to misuse the money, the public money, or to receive unnecessary money from outside. public money should not enrich politicians and public policies should not be made under the pressure and interference of dirty money. this is the basis of democracy – we say this to the rest of the world, we say this to our own member states, we say it to other institutions and we say it to businesses. but in this parliament, we still look to have the least constraints on meps, the least possible. but these rules, now that we have them, they can make a healthy democracy because there is no european healthy democracy without clean european institutions. if we fail this time, we will be heading into the next european elections, sending a signal that this parliament has no problem sheltering those few meps that profit from their mandate at the expense of citizens and democracies.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 13 september. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the report by markus pieper, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the renewable energy directive (com(2021)0557 – c9-0329/2021 – 2021/0218(cod)) (a9-0208/2022).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. with a view to greater independence and reducing co2, we have raised the renewable energy targets from 30% of the commission's proposal to 42.5%, which is a success of the european parliament. but we don't just say higher, faster, further. this directive also tells us how to do it. the red iii project is proof that brussels can be unbureaucratic and pragmatic. we give renewable energy the label of paramount public interest and thus the necessary flexibility for permits. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. ladies and gentlemen, a plant is automatically deemed approved after a certain period of time if there is no feedback from the administration. positive silence, please. it's almost romantic, but it's tough on the regulators. we're not just speeding up the approval process, we're also being open to technology. we're increasing the supply of renewable energy, and that's good for energy prices. the focus is on wind and photovoltaics, but also on hydropower, geothermal, tidal currents and, ladies and gentlemen, biomass from the forest. it's renewable, and that's a good thing. increase energy supply by accelerating approval, by opening up technology and by relying on imports, heavily on energy imports. the member states must make their energy plans clear on the subject of energy imports. the commission has also taken the initiative of introducing a new system of taxation of energy products. not pragmatic enough yet, but that'll catch up with a review soon. ladies and gentlemen, we have set the stage for a rapid energy transition. but please, let's not kid ourselves. europe has slowed down in its expansion of renewable energy in global comparison, partly because member states are sticking to rigid support instruments such as decades-old feed-in tariffs. so there's a lack of innovation pressure in the industry. it is therefore important that this directive stipulates that 5% of the expansion capacity should be above the state of the art, including pilot projects for floating solar cells, wind turbines, river power plants, algae houses, solar roads, hydroelectric plants using energy from sea waves. nothing is impossible with renewables and almost everything has a future. we now need an eu electricity market design with price signals that make renewables attractive as a reserve capacity and make room for decentralised storage solutions. we need trans-boundary energy networks and more investment in national grid infrastructure. and we need hydrogen now for the conversion, so that the green hydrogen can come into the factories later. ladies and gentlemen, on this side of the house, i would like to make a very urgent request: accept the rainbow for hydrogen colours. you're so fond of the rainbow. i know that this requires compromise, but the red has shown that we can agree. we have now, together with the ets, energy efficiency and red legislation, put the heart of the green deal on the road. we could also leave much of what is now eu legislation to the market and the member states. we could do without a lot of red tape, but that's again a matter of compromise in the next few months. if we can get a large majority in parliament behind a proposal, then we will also be successful in the negotiations with the council and the commission. so thank you, thank you very much, to the shadows for the trust they have placed in each other, thank you to the committee secretariats and our advisers and assistants, thank you to the commission for the great coordination, sometimes not always agreeable within the commission, but in the end it was a wonderful result. it was very exhausting, but it was also a great feeling, at seven in the morning, when we finally had an agreement.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion. president. - the debate is closed. commissioner, i have to ask you. the european parliament has made wise decisions and sometimes less wise decisions in different contexts. on 8 may 2003 we adopted a decision on renewable fuels. it wasn't for a very long time before we finally realized that maybe that decision wasn't the wisest decision in the world. it then led to new negotiations and new decisions, because the share of renewable fuels that we then advocated simply consumed too much forest. then, during the previous mandate, i was involved in making a decision on electric cars, and it may be that we too will have to reassess what we have done on that point. but i would like to thank mr pieper for his cooperation and my shadows in envi for their cooperation. we were able to achieve a somewhat decent result in the end. but i fear that we will return to the question of renewable fuels in the coming years a number of times. and i hope you're wiser than i was at that stage.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, this is a historic moment for renewables in the eu. your vote approving the renewable energy directive will be key to addressing climate change and europe’s energy security. my warmest thanks to the rapporteur, mr pieper, and to the team of shadows for all your efforts in bringing this heavy file to a successful conclusion. thank you also for integrating the reppowereu proposal in such a smooth and timely fashion. let me focus on some key elements that we should be particularly proud of. first, thanks to the revised renewable target of 42.5%, we will double the renewable share in our energy mix compared to today. this is the right signal to attract the massive investment required. second, the agreed directive gives us the right tools to roll out renewables across different sectors of the economy, including crucial sectors such as heating and cooling, industry and transport. third, we achieved a balanced agreement on the sustainability of bioenergy. as we phase out fossil fuels, bioenergy will have a role to play, but we agreed to utilise it in a way that minimises the impact on forests. fourth, the new permitting rules will be a game changer for renewables deployment. currently, approximately 130gw of renewable projects are waiting to receive a permit in the eu. these projects alone would represent around 20 billion m³ of gas savings and 36 million tonnes of coal savings. honourable members, we must move fast to implement the new rules, as this will translate into faster renewables rollout. the commission stands ready to support member states and stakeholders in the swift and correct implementation of these crucial measures.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, without a real commitment to renewables, the energy transition is not possible. and this review of the renewable energy directive is proof that we are aware of this fact and that we are willing to act. the work done by the co-legislators in the revision of this directive is remarkable. the amendments tabled are victories for parliament and i would like to pay a very special tribute to the rapporteur, our colleague markus pieper. as a result of this work by the european parliament, we will have an ambitious but realistic directive. the 42,5% renewables target is binding and may be supplemented by an additional 2,5% if conditions allow. in the design of the electricity market, we also introduced the possibility of these additional 2.5% being achieved through auctions at european level. i would also like to stress one other point which is very important to me, namely the 5% for innovative renewables, which is included in the final text, for example, renewables linked to the ocean. we are investing in scientific research, in innovation, which are essential to make the european union more competitive on the global stage.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, we have just experienced the hottest summer on record. it's a signal that urges us to act. that is why i am pleased that we have unanimously adopted this european renewable energy law, which amplifies our ambitions and signals to the world that europe is serious about tackling global warming. i would, however, like to make a comment. first, with regard to the far right, which does not like renewables and only wants nuclear energy. and on the other side, to those who say "no" to nuclear and who only want renewable energy. i tell them they are wrong, because we need both renewable energy and nuclear energy. to oppose both, or to omit either, is not to be serious about the fight against global warming. europe must embrace all forms of clean energy, and with my renew europe group we will ensure that this is the case.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, tomorrow we will vote in favour of a text that will effectively combat the over-indebtedness of thousands of european citizens and adapt our rules to the digitalisation of society. today, we can consume with a click, and we can also take out a loan with a few clicks. this is good for making life easier for consumers, smes and the growth of e-commerce. but borrowing money is not without risk, and the dangers have increased with new types of credit which, until now, did not offer adequate consumer protection. i am talking about 'buy now, pay later' loans, loans under €200 and loans subscribed on participatory platforms. from now on, any creditor will have to ensure that the consumer is able to repay the credit and that he is well informed in advance of all the risks. the new rules also include measures to combat the excessive interest rates on certain consumer credits. on this day of honour to my colleague véronique trillet-lenoir, the real architect of the cancer plan, i would like to highlight our common struggle to introduce the 'right to be forgotten' into european legislation. we have made it an obligation for all member states to introduce this 'right to be forgotten' period. this is a first step which will have to be followed in other areas, such as mortgage lending. i want to say to all cancer victims in europe: double punishment is over.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam rapporteur, how can we talk about consumer credit without mentioning price inflation? what was supposed to be an exception has, over the years, become a way of life, even a way of survival. a credit to pay bills, a credit to pay taxes or just to go on vacation with the kids. inflation is a tax for the poor, a bonus for the rich, as a former french president said. we must therefore protect consumers at all levels, and above all their health data, which must not be used by credit institutions to exclude or overtax them. this text is progress for some european countries, but we are not going far enough with regard to credit insurance. former patients will have to wait for years, after cancer or other illnesses, for equal access to insurance. this european union has created inflation. we're wondering who, why?
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the whole world is watching us and waiting for the european union to take a strong stand in the face of the humanitarian catastrophe in gaza. already 10,000 palestinians have died under israeli bombs, including 4,000 children. we must do everything we can to stop this massacre. but talking about humanitarian pause, singular or plural, means absolutely nothing in practice. war, my colleagues, is not a child's game, nor even a chatter game where it looks like a few hours before bombs fall on palestinian civilians again. the key word today, which can save thousands of innocent lives in gaza, is an immediate ceasefire. this is the unrelenting appeal of ngos, the unrelenting appeal of the un secretary-general, echoed once again by cate blanchett. that is why we are calling for this debate with a resolution on the humanitarian catastrophe in gaza and the need for an immediate ceasefire. and let me, madam president, insist that there be a vote. i think that our parliament should be able to take a position and have a vote on each of the proposals made by our political groups.
so i will put this compromise proposal to the vote by roll call. (parliament approved the request)therefore we will have a statement as has been proposed by ms gualmini. for wednesday, the green group has requested that a commission statement on ‘addressing the lack of transparency of pesticide authorisation and the risks for the environment and people’s health’, followed by one round or political group speakers, be added as the last point in the afternoon. i give the floor to marie toussaint to move the request on behalf of the green group.
on behalf of the greens/efa group. the commission has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are met. we learned that several pesticide companies, including syngenta and bayer monsanto, had knowingly hidden from the european authorities the results of studies showing the toxicity of their products to citizens and to citizens, and particularly to children. the european commission then denounced a breach of legal obligations. but since then, nothing. we have not proposed a commission of inquiry to be set up in the european parliament, nor has our body simply taken a position which is supposed to defend the interests of europeans and europeans by ensuring in particular that our laws are respected. mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. by turning your eyes away, you're promoting impunity, even as we fight. i therefore ask that a statement from the commission and the council on the lack of transparency in authorization of pesticides and their risks to the environment and human health be placed on the agenda. this is without resolution for tonight, this wednesday night, with a group talk. i am asking, madam president, that this be done by a vote on a roll call.
does anybody want to speak against this proposal? if not we go straight to voting on the request. (parliament rejected the request)therefore the agenda is unchanged. for thursday, the greens group has requested that council and commission statements on ‘the proposal to renew glyphosate and the urgent need to phase out’, followed by one round of political group speakers, be added as the first item in the morning, and therefore the sitting would start at 8.30. the statements would then be wound up with a resolution. i give the floor once again to marie toussaint to move the request.
madam president, let us hope that this time it will be approved by our house. it is simple: on 16 november, member states will have to validate the european commission's proposal to renew the licence for glyphosate for an additional ten years. we refuse. we call it stop glyphosate because when so many independent studies report the toxicity of this product to human health, then re-authorizing glyphosate is a criminal offence. when so many other studies have denounced the damage this herbicide has done to nature and biodiversity, reauthorizing glyphosate is treason. the protection of our health and life must be assured urgently by turning the page on glyphosate immediately and permanently. this is a major public health issue. we only have one life. let's defend it together. i therefore propose that we put on the agenda tomorrow morning at 8.30 a debate with a resolution entitled 'declaration by the commission and the council on the renewal of glyphosate and the urgency of a withdrawal'. this debate would be organised with a political group vote and i would like two separate votes: one on holding the debate and the other on adopting a resolution.
i have received an alternative proposal from the renew group, which will be presented by nils torvalds.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, renew can support the greens’ request for a debate and a resolution on the renewal of glyphosate if we change the title to ‘council and commission statements on the proposal for a renewal of glyphosate’ with a resolution to be voted in november ii.
i have also received an alternative proposal from the left group, and i give the floor to anja hazekamp to present it.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, the commission’s proposal to allow glyphosate for another 10 years is a disgrace and it is illegal. it is clearly not in accordance with our own safety criteria of our own laws. it is not in line with science. already in october 2017, this parliament asked the commission to ban glyphosate no later than 15 december 2022. glyphosate is ruining our health and the health of animals. it is polluting our environment, soils and water sources. we don’t need another resolution. we don’t need a phase-out as proposed by the greens. we need to ban glyphosate now. therefore, i would like to make a counter-proposal: i ask for a debate without a resolution, and i propose as a title of the debate ‘the need for an immediate ban on glyphosate’. i would like to ask the chair on two separate votes on the request made by the other groups: one request to add a debate and one request to add a resolution.
so thank you, ms hazekamp, now i will turn to ms toussaint. do you agree with any of the alternative proposals or do you stick to your own?
on behalf of the greens/efa group. no, i would like to put our proposal to the vote.
on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of certain products. it's one of the promises we made together after world war ii. this is one of the reasons why we are part of a united europe. never again: children, women and men murdered because they're jewish. never again: insults, assaults, harassment, tags, looting. never again: the fear of being targeted because of your religion, your background. and yet, despite this promise, our european citizens are afraid again. they're afraid, because they're jewish. fear, because prejudice and hatred have found an excuse to free themselves. i believe, my colleagues, that those who see the fight against anti-semitism as something other than a moral and humanist obligation are part of the problem. whatever the state of the world and our other legitimate struggles, no human being in europe can be threatened because of his faith, his origin, his kind, his choices. the fight against hatred in all its forms is the first duty of european elected officials, the first duty of european parliamentarians. our history and this parliament compel us to do so. in this terrible time, i know that many of our fellow citizens feel lonely. and i would like to say, on behalf of my political group renew europe and also on behalf of this parliament, that they are not alone. europe will do everything to ensure your safety. europe will do everything it can to punish those who commit these crimes and hate. europe will do everything it can to educate and to convey these values against the falsifiers of history, against the extremists, against the parties that are still fighting, my colleagues, with the anti-semites and the deniers, against those who confuse the resistance and the resistance with terrorism and terrorists. we will be here and i think this european parliament will always be here. this parliament was chaired by simone veil, a jewish, french, european holocaust survivor. this parliament has always been by your side. the european union will continue its historic mission to defeat anti-semitism and the ferments of this division. this tireless fight for our values and for our european values, for our common mission, is also an individual obligation.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential that we have this collective moment today to remind ourselves of our most resolute commitment to anti-semitism. europe has a particular history and responsibility in this regard, because it was on our continent that anti-semitism led to the worst, with the holocaust. it is in our countries that jews have been targeted, persecuted and murdered by the millions. and i wish today we wouldn't forget it. anti-semitism is the foundation of the european far right, which still welcomes deniers. i don't want anyone to think she's protecting the jews today. it's an insult to the past and a lie to the present. so yes, we will participate here in the european parliament and outside in all anti-semitic initiatives, unless they include those that have theorized, fed and spread them: the far right. anti-semitism is a profound evil that has been part of millennia of history. it is a poison that still infects our societies and we must fight against it relentlessly and never give up. more than a thousand anti-semitic acts were recorded in france in just one month, two thousand in germany, a similar trend throughout europe. the legitimate and necessary criticism of the israeli far-right government's policy must never be confused with the essentialisation of persons of jewish faith or culture. as condemnation of the atrocities committed by hamas must never be confused with the essentialisation of persons of muslim faith or culture. anti-semitism, racism, hatred of others have no place in our democracies. any intimidation, insult, or violence against a person on the basis of his or her religion is unacceptable. nothing can justify them. i never did. i would like to express here, on behalf of my leftist group in the european parliament, my solidarity and support for all victims of anti-semitic acts. i would also like to express a clear commitment to all those people of jewish faith and culture who, i know for many, are concerned today. i want to tell them, i want to tell you that you will always be under the protection of the european union and i want to tell you that i will be, that we will always be by your side.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must name things. what's happening in gaza is a deliberate and organized massacre. ten thousand palestinians have already been killed by indiscriminate israeli bombing and, i don't know if you know it well, children are being amputated alive without anesthesia. one hundred and sixty children die every day, one every ten minutes. gaza has become a cemetery without burials where women mark their children's names on their children's skin so that they can be identified if they are killed by israeli bombing. benjamin netanyahu is not going to stop this carnage. he's going to expand it. one of its ministers even proposed using a nuclear bomb to wipe gaza off the map. this is not self-defense, my friends, it is revenge. meanwhile, illegal settlement is intensifying in the west bank, pushing and driving palestinians out of their land. all this is only adding to the spiral of violence and will not guarantee the right of israelis to security. we have to stop this madness. and when i see the european union's response, mrs von der leyen, i must say that i am ashamed. it is a shame that you have ignored the un's warning about israeli war crimes and the risk of ethnic cleansing and genocide. shame you refused to call for an immediate ceasefire. shame you're embarrassed to align yourself with the united states and miss your historic responsibility for peace. shame, just shame, seriously, that you were complicit in these atrocities. we cannot answer the horrors of hamas by massacring a people. we must call for an immediate ceasefire. everything must be done to secure the release of hostages, the lifting of the blockade, the end of colonization and the resumption of the two-state solution. the time we live in is crucial. no one can say he didn't know. the days of 2.5 million people trapped are numbered. history is watching us and it will not forgive us for abandoning them.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, europe must define its course on the conflict between israel and hamas. but to have a geopolitical europe also requires a europe that is self-sufficient and accompanied by the necessary positions. and this summit was also a discussion of how he could afford it. but we all here are making the same observation. we are facing migratory flows that we are struggling to manage because of lack of resources. we are highly dependent on other powers for our strategic products. ukraine would collapse without our support. and if it collapses, tomorrow russia will be on the borders of poland, hungary, slovakia, romania. this is the reality of the challenges facing europe today. i thank the european commission for proposing a new budget which largely addresses these challenges, even though the promised sovereignty fund has not yet been created, commissioner, with great regret, of course, on our part. so what a disappointment to hear some heads of state question the very idea that we need to refinance ourselves to deal with these issues, and others even go so far as to blackmail. but europeans are wondering where europe is, and when it answers 'present', as if finally finding a way to manage immigration, some heads of state or government, who are asking us to better manage migration flows, refuse to provide the means to ensure the return of those who are not destined to stay, the means to ensure the integration of those who have the right to stay. it's a question of whether we're walking on our heads. what justifies such a gap between ambitions and actions? all this will not be done without money. the asylum and migration pact must be financed. what will happen if the situation in the middle east turns into a new migration crisis? mr president, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to take up the matter. - no, not at all. - no, not at all. why should this be the case for the european union? i therefore call on the heads of state and government to take responsibility. let us discuss figures and amounts, but let us, mr president, get out of this eternal attempt to strip peter of his clothes and dress paul. let us have a vision for europe, a vision that is not just accounting, a vision that is up to the challenges of today and tomorrow.
- mrs. president, please. the war in gaza has been going on for over a month. the most serious victims are innocent civilians, especially women and children. this war is the deadliest for humanitarian workers. in less than a month, more palestinians have died in the gaza conflict than all the victims in srebrenica. the attack on hamas on october 7 was a war crime and a decisive act that i condemn. the israeli hostages need to be released, but the retaliatory israeli attacks on gaza are getting stronger every day. the icc will have to decide whether to target civilian objects with apparently non-selective targeting and collective punishment, which could be ethnic cleansing or even a crime against humanity. moreover, many warn that the operation's course and the public statements of israeli officials indicate a genocidal nature. the international community must ask itself whether the israeli government still respects international law. therefore, my dear friends, the international community must demand an end to the conflict, the delivery of emergency aid and the opening of peace negotiations.
madam president, there are only three words worth saying today: cease fire. you see, it's simple, it's easy. it takes strong convictions and a minimum of courage. so yes, the hamas terrorist attack is dirty. it has been said, it has been repeated, it will be repeated as many times as it needs to be said, but that does not give israel the right to do what it is doing. the right of israel to defend itself exists, and it is governed by international law, humanitarian law. the international community must still have the courage to demand that it be respected. it is not a right to kill civilians indiscriminately, it is not a right to target hospitals, journalists, it is not a right to target unrwa schools, it is not a right to besiege a civilian population, to starve them, to deprive them of water and electricity. it's not a right to do a nakba with refugees. as you can see, it's not a right to take revenge. europe is witnessing the destruction of all the foundations of international law without saying anything. she's not up to it. let us have the courage to demand this ceasefire immediately, now, forcefully and... (end of the inaudible intervention)
on behalf of the id group. madam president, western, do you want to resume the fight between the cross and the crescent?, it is in these extremely serious and provocative terms that turkish president erdogan recently expressed himself, threatening the whole of europe. he also has a strong support for the hamas terrorist organization, and some of its executives are now in attendance. the ottoman sultan's message is clear. but has the european union really become aware of this? the process of turkey's accession to our institutions is still stalled but still ongoing. mr erdogan has never hidden his disdain for what we represent, while his country has unreservedly accepted the €20 billion in pre-accession funds that brussels has paid him since 1996. mr erdogan has just declared that supporting hamas is the most natural thing in the world. such statements are unacceptable. turkey's entry into the european union must be stopped immediately and definitively. we cannot finance a country that backs those who want to destroy us, those who commit unspeakable horrors, those who support islamism. it is therefore absolutely unthinkable, commissioner, to integrate turkey into the european union. that is absolutely clear. the union's increasingly insane desire to expand is in conflict with reality. the utopia of world ideology is confronted with the terror of those who are hostile to us. any extension shall be prohibited. the same must be said of bosnia and albania, countries ganged by mafia, trafficking and islamism. it is a matter of the security and protection of our people.
madam president, the eu urgently needs to rethink the way it approaches enlargement. the accession process must increase direct work with civil society, rather than focusing only on bilateral discussions with national governments. the 2023 enlargement package stresses a new momentum for the western balkans. good! but reforms have largely stalled in the region; citizens there are deeply disappointed by their own governments and by the eu. when i meet them in serbia, bosnia and herzegovina or montenegro, i am energised by a strong civil society fighting for democratic changes and a more peaceful political debate in difficult, sometimes autocratic, circumstances. we are opening up the accession process to ukraine and moldova, but we are not making progress with our neighbours in the western balkans. what message does this send to those fighting for european values there? the future of the western balkans is in europe. we have common history and shared challenges: security in the face of russian aggression, safeguarding democracy, upholding rule of law and protecting the environment. but this means real dialogue and sincere cooperation, not loose commercial relationships with corrupted administrations and despotic leaders.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, the world is convulsing, the middle east is burning and the shock wave spreading to europe is adding to the daily tumult of our citizens whose anxiety about finding out their energy bills has never been more palpable. since the outbreak of the war in ukraine, our continent has been facing an unprecedented energy crisis, plunging our states into difficulties that we could compare to those experienced during the first oil shock in october 73. even if it is no longer the mainstream, the persistent situation and energy prices remain at a worrying level which affects both household purchasing power and the competitiveness of our enterprises. in this energy crisis, far from your satisfaction, the european union has not been a shield. the commission has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented in a timely manner. this european energy market is the symbol of a technocratic and centralised energy policy. it is likely to lead our entire continent into an economic winter, with an industrial exodus that has already begun with these absurd rules and which threatens to impoverish europe. but another policy is possible. it requires the political courage that countries such as portugal and spain have, by way of derogation, shown by breaking the rules imposed by the commission. thanks to the excellence of its nuclear sector, france has all the means to become an energy paradise capable of offering reasonable tariffs to its citizens and of attracting to it all those who want to create, innovate and produce. this is the future that my movement will defend in the great democratic confrontation on june 9, 2024.
mr president, commissioner, the energy union is certainly a great opportunity for growth and security for our europe. with a single purchasing power station and finally weighing the strength of our union, businesses and citizens can achieve more competitive prices than in the past. however, there are still many shadow areas. the renewable energy boom in 2022 is not uniform in all parts of europe. there are countries like italy that are starting out, not fully exploiting the potential of sun and wind. also in italy, state subsidies to fossil sources in 2022 have increased by more than 500% compared to 2021, the year in which the conte government brought them to the historic low. the commission must put its attention to the member states, the energy communities, renewables, the fight against energy poverty and the efficiency of plants. the national energy and climate plans must reflect these objectives, otherwise we will all fail.
mr president, commissioner, today we are discussing the 8th state of the energy union report. the report concludes that the european union has reduced its demand for russian gas by 18% compared to the previous five years. however, despite bans on imports of crude oil and derived products, the european union remains one of russia's largest fossil fuel customers. moreover, some member states which are in favour of sanctions have increased their consumption in recent months to the point that in the first half of 2023 russian imports of liquefied gas into the european union have been the highest in recent years. on the other hand, when we talk about the energy union, it must be noted that the reform of the electricity market is a step forward. parliament, the council and the commission are now aligned on the main objectives of the reform. they reject the possibility for states to set a maximum individual income ceiling for electricity producers and argue that contracts for difference can cover investments in nuclear energy. significant issues remain to be discussed between the council and parliament, such as the push for the 15% target for interconnections, a necessary step towards an integrated energy market. we're on the right track. but we need to move up a gear.
mr president, commissioner, the conclusions of the report on the state of the energy union in 2023 were expected. they show that we have been able to respond to the energy crisis caused by the war in ukraine by dampening prices and tomorrow by lowering them, thanks to our european electricity market, which is the only useful bulwark to fight rising prices. in less than two years, we have adapted repowereu and the renewable energy directive to allow wind and solar to exceed fossil-based electricity generation for the first time. you said that this is a very positive dynamic, but we must continue our efforts. we still import 15% of russian gas, mr. bardella's friends. that's not acceptable. we must support the deployment of all decarbonised energy, including nuclear energy. i welcome in this regard the announcement you made yesterday in bratislava, commissioner, announcing your intention to launch a european small modular nuclear reactor alliance with commissioner thierry breton. we need it, our european industry depends on it. all the energy that contributes to our climate goals and strategic autonomy is good to take.
mr president, madam commissioner, for all those who are concerned about the price of petrol at the pump and the price of heating this winter, it is certainly not the time to be complacent. the irrational preference for renewable energy causes energy prices to inflate in a structural way. the intermediaries, who lost their identity in the process, are unjustly enriched by reselling russian gas and oil. the technical dead ends that are being made, particularly on nuclear micro-centric plants, but also on clean gas, which could well be the energy of the 21st century, but also on smart electricity grids, risk to penalize the competitiveness of our companies and also the prices paid for energy by our households. but the mistake seems to me to be of a more serious nature. this is an error in the very nature of competitive markets. the first is the competition between national systems, national operators and different climatic and territorial conditions. we allow private enterprises everything we forbid from national operators: a localist and responsible approach. the basis for competition must be re-established and the benefits of states which, like portugal or spain, regain their independence from european energy prices, which are subsidies to countries which have made the wrong choices, must be assessed. i think of germany in particular.
mr president, let us be clear: the euro 7 bill is simply unsustainable. the commission is demanding that manufacturers invest heavily in ensuring that thermal engines comply with ever stricter standards. yet these same manufacturers have already invested billions to turn electric by 2025 under your order. the commission has therefore proposed that the commission should take the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are fully used. even worse, and you know very well, these efforts will blow up the price of vehicles, which will simply remove affordable vehicles from the market. the result: small towns, once affordable for eur 10 000, are now three times more expensive. so under the pretext of ecology, you are reinforcing inequalities and digging the social divide. member states have already sent a yellow card to this text. that should alert you. listen to the manufacturers, the nations and the drivers. stop unfairly penalizing the most vulnerable people in our society and finally stop endangering our automotive industry.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, no one waited for the european commission to draw inspiration from the athenian democracy. if european culture has flourished, it is because it has been an example to the whole world, which has freely drawn on this invaluable heritage. the text of this resolution proposes to reverse this view completely. our parliament pretends to believe that it can get the world to follow its recommendations, even though we are a counter-example of democracy. we still cannot get ms von der leyen's text messages from pfizer, we are not really credible in teaching the world about transparency. worse, the european institutions are not even hiding that they support some candidates against others, as was recently seen in poland or moldova. i would like to say that the commission is not going to be able to do this. we have heard the commission, for example, rise up when mr zelensky has just announced that he is suspending the elections in ukraine. have we seen the beginning of a reaction by the european commission against the extraterritoriality of american law, which is the worst democratic interference of our century? this is the rule of this parliament. we support trade agreements with vietnam, but we sanction cambodia. we hate tunisia, but we forgive everything in qatar. and i remind you that the muslim brotherhood's egypt yesterday supported hamas, whereas your favours today continue to attack president sisi's government. the best way for us to support the integrity of democratic life in the world would be to return to two simple principles: respect for sovereignty and refusal to interfere in the internal affairs of other states.
madam president, a year ago our parliament voted on a resolution calling for support for the displaced congolese in the kivu region. in this resolution we urged rwanda not to support the m23 rebels and we demanded that the command of this bloody terrorist group be sanctioned. since then, the m23 has continued its crimes and its situation in kivu is still tense. while 200,000 people have already been displaced from goma, violent fighting has continued on november 7. when will we finally force kagame's rwanda to give up the political, military and economic destabilization of the democratic republic of congo? as the presidential election takes place in kinshasa in december and as we discuss the european union's action to preserve the democratic process today, we must help the congolese people to stop the interference of kigali. we must support the initiatives of the heads of state in southern africa, particularly angola, and finally clearly denounce the plundering of the wealth of the democratic republic of the congo.
mr president, the outcome of this eu-us summit is good because we had the life-saving news that both the usa and the eu continue their steadfast support to ukraine in the face of russian aggression. then also we had news that, despite the fact that the two sides could not come to an agreement on the steel and aluminium tariffs or broadening the understanding of the critical materials, so important for climate change and our future industries, that they will continue the negotiations. and we could read what the ambassador to the european union mark gitenstein said that the us would not let the tariff rate quotas expire on 1 january, but is ready to continue the negotiations. so i wish good luck because this is what we least need in this time of geopolitical tensions: to start any more trade disputes. but rather i also want to take the activity and needed transatlantic relationship that is more important than ever. also last week, four european parliament committees visited the united states and we do our best to keep on the same track for the future on this global crisis that we are facing.
mr president, i welcome the summit with the united states. i hope the next one doesn't wait another two years. we must return to the annual summit system, which was in place during the clinton era. the challenges we share with the united states are many: ukraine, the middle east, the complex relationship with china, the instability in the sahel, the indo-pacific, etc. cooperation and coordination with the united states, our most important ally, is therefore essential. on a bilateral level, unfortunately, the outcomes of the summit are not prominent. the agreement on essential minerals, which is necessary to avoid the problems that the us inflation reduction act creates for european electric vehicles, has not yet been concluded. the european council, a few days ago, had to insist on this point. it is a pity, and i certainly repeat it, that we have not concluded the atci: we would not be in this situation now. and we must find a solution soon to the steel and aluminum problem. we must not waste much time: in less than a year we can have an administration in washington that is indifferent or less committed to the european union. i welcome the increase in funding for the erasmus+ and fulbright schuman programmes.
mr. president, madam commissioner, esteemed colleagues, of course, and i am reserved to the outcome of this summit. and why am i booked? i recently visited the united states as vice president of the commission on the internal market. there were other committees present, a lot of dialogue, but remember that in the last term we couldn't finalize the ttip under the trump administration and my hope and probably many others' hope was that under the biden administration we would finalize this transatlantic deal. sure, it's good we have a trade and technical council. the problem is, look at the results. and yes, there will be elections in the united states, and i think we're entering a new leadership of the united states with no concrete results. it is very good that we have also mentioned the lifting of visas, but you see, my country, for example, is not a beneficiary of the lifting of visas and these are just statements that are not covered by the facts and i think that we should emphasize this, commissioner and the council presidency, to have results. the united states is an important partner for the internal market of the european union.
mr president, my honourable commissioner, colleagues and colleagues! i always support fair and equitable cooperation. it is clear that the european union needs new partners, but unfortunately we are not self-sufficient in the disposal of critical raw materials. but we must not blindly trust or follow larger and stronger partners. we used to be too dependent on our energy partners. we mustn't make the same mistakes again. i also support agreements with other countries that have access to rare raw materials. the territory of the countries can change, but not always for the better. but together with the democratic countries, we must always strive for peace and humanity in politics and in all conflicts.
mr president, dear commissioner, dear secretary of state, transatlantic relations are undoubtedly crucial and fundamental, especially in this geopolitical time we live in. but despite maintaining the eu-us trade and technology council dialogue which i have found to be fundamental, what i am deeply concerned about, and i think most importantly, is that the european union has more influence and more capacity to level the playing field in transatlantic relations. and for that, it is crucial that the european union regains technological leadership and competitive capacity and that we can really prevent in the future that laws like the us inflation reduction act can be passed without considering a strategic partner like the european union. i therefore want to ask commissioner if you have planned, are going to do or have done an assessment of the impact of the inflation reduction act on european businesses and the economy.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, this debate confirmed that we understand the thing in the same way, the parliament and the commission: that it is imperative to recognise that the stability and prosperity of both sides of the atlantic, and indeed beyond, depend on our ability to work closely and collaboratively with the united states. so, no dependency – i have to reject this, because i heard it here today – no dependency of the eu on the us. we are partners who have to work together. i think also the summit showed that this is the case. we believe that the strength of our transatlantic partnership remains a deterrent to any who would seek to exploit weaknesses within it. the european union and the united states share a profound and strategic relationship rooted in history, values and interests. we are firmly committed to nurturing and building upon this partnership beyond the upcoming 2024 election cycle. several of you asked about the concrete projects – mr tudorache, and several other honourable members. so, i will go through the list of the concrete things we work on together. first of all, many members mentioned the slow progress, if any, on the agreement on steel and aluminium and critical materials. so, here i want to say that the summit resulted in important progress towards a global arrangement on sustainable steel and aluminium, and also critical minerals agreement. on gsa, the aluminium and steel, we made headway in identifying the sources of non-market excess capacity, and getting a better shared understanding of the tools we will need to decarbonise the steel and aluminium industries. we are committed to continue making progress on the agreement in the next two months, including with a view to foster undistorted transatlantic trade in these sectors. so, once again, we have given ourselves an additional two more months to solve this. this is our objective and we continue to share a joint sense of urgency with you. on the critical materials, we also advanced significantly. we will continue to engage with the united states, and also consult with our member states, with a view to getting an agreement over the finishing line. our objective is a full international agreement, which will allow eu critical materials to benefit from subsidies for electric vehicles under the inflation reduction act, and help integrate transatlantic critical material, critical mineral, and battery supply chains. so, this is the update on these two agreements. now, back to the technology and trade council, its technological part. one last comment on the inflation reduction act. ms piñero, we recently adopted a communication as a reaction on the inflation reduction act, the update of the response of the eu, and there is very relevant data being used for the communication. i also want to mention, under the list of projects, the clean energy incentives dialogue, which is also connected with the inflation reduction act, as you know. on the technology side, we have several priorities, which we confirmed; we will discuss them further still this year on the next session. then we should have the last one under this administration – and it should be in spring – to wrap up, summarise the results of common efforts and discuss the possible future continuation. but, of course, the elections are coming, and so we have to work together till spring, and then to plan with some level of uncertainty. at the same time, i want to mention four priorities under the technology side of ttc. first is the stabilisation of cooperation in the field of semiconductors, including supply chains. when i say stabilisation, i mean not ad hoc reactions on some shortages or some unexpected situations, but something more systematic, something more predictable, where we can rely on each other. the second thing is cooperation on quantum and related technologies, especially common research, usage of horizon-relevant programmes on the us side. the same or similar way ahead of us is for ai. again, strong cooperation in the research field. as you may know, recently, gina raimondo announced the establishment of the institute on generative ai safety. she announced it in london. after we finalise the ai act, we will also be able to announce a similar arrangement on the european union side. cooperation in research field is more than needed in the field of ai and generative ai, foundation models, and so on. also, we are continuing consultations when it comes to regulatory response on possible risks posed by artificial intelligence. convergence of rules and common work on future global rules is a very important project still ahead of us. i am sure that if the democratic world joins forces and becomes the rules makers for the technologies, rather than rules takers, we will win a very important global battle, because the field of technologies is unfortunately, in the current world, a battlefield. the third thing – or the last priority we have, under ttc technology part – is intensive cooperation and common projects to promote digitalisation and development of technologies and innovations in third countries. plenty of work, a lot has been done; some things are still ahead of us, but i believe that by spring 2024, we will be able to announce very concrete results stemming from our mutual cooperation with the united states.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs jourová, thank you very much for your comments and comments. we are in an unprecedented moment and today's debate confirms this. the european union and the united states face enormous challenges: the war in ukraine, the crisis in the middle east, climate change and the energy transition, to name but a few. with the united states we are partners in defending freedom and democracy, our common values, and in seeking solutions to the unlimited problems of our planet, as many of you have said. neither the european union nor the united states can meet these challenges alone, and it is clear that president biden and his government are willing and willing to cooperate with us. the summit has resulted in an ambitious programme that paves the way for tackling these challenges. we have both committed ourselves to advancing work and reaching solutions on essential issues in the field of open trade. we will work together to implement this programme and we will strive for the transatlantic partnership, which is fundamental to the prosperity and security of our peoples and the rest of the world. once again, thank you for your attention and your contributions, which will be very useful in guiding our future work and preparing future summits.
the debate is closed. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 171.
in writing. it is important that eu and us support for ukraine continue, as confirmed at the summit. the eu and the us have worked closely together to support ukraine both politically and in the provision of arms. it is important to keep the focus on what is happening in ukraine. in view of the current global crisis, the us and eu must continue to work together in other areas. it is important that both the us and the eu work together to prevent further escalation in the middle east.
the next item on the agenda is the report by josé manuel fernandes and valérie hayer on behalf of the committee on budgets on the proposal for a council decision amending decision (eu, euratom) 2020/2053 on the european union's system of self-financing (com(2021) 0570 - c-0034/2022) (com(2023) 0331 c9-0034/2022 c9-0211/2023 2021/0430cns)) (a9-0295/2023).
the report is not yet available. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since 2019, we have been re-establishing the clean-resource agenda with mr fernandes, whom i welcome here. an iconic record, and for some a sea serpent. i must confess that all this time i sometimes wonder how the national leaders in the 1950s agreed at the outset that europe should be fully financed from real own resources. this was the time when large companies in the coal and steel sectors paid a tax directly to the ecsc, the european institution. a time when financial autonomy in europe was an outspoken desire of national leaders. this will was even renewed in the 1960s with customs duties. but, admittedly, that spirit has faded over time. national contributions have become the new norm. the states have taken back their hand. as a result, there is no longer a budget negotiation where net contributors are not tapping on net beneficiaries. we are not in a position to make any progress on the subject of the european union. when it comes to money, national selfishness is taking the lead. the overdependence on national contributions has led us to a dead end, with a budget stuck at 1% of the eu's gdp for, i would like to say, almost forever. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, whether europe will be able to expand, or rather, will it be able to function under the conditions of having even more members but with the same anachronistic rules, the same way of financing our common future? i do not want a europe where 35 national finance ministries, each with their own constraints, pull the action of europe downwards, for lack of political will. the time has come, my colleagues. the time has come to deliver on the promise made with this plan of recovery. the debt contracted will not be repaid by the states with taxpayer taxes. it is also not possible to cut healthcare or erasmus. the time has come to act on these new own resources. the pollution rights on the european carbon market that have existed since 2003 are they european? they are therefore going to the european budget. the carbon tax at the borders is european, right? it is therefore going to the european budget. do the large multinationals thrive on the european market? they therefore contribute to the european budget. let us get out of this fever, and take it with force, let us even impose what is obvious and should have remained. if a european policy generates money, then that money must go back to europe. and beyond the obvious, beyond the coherence, let us defend what has now become the most important. in 2028, in just over four years, the european union will be legally obliged to start paying off the debt contracted for the recovery plan. we are talking about 20 billion euros a year. if the states do not decide to go beyond a political goal, the political goal they committed themselves to in 2020, then we are faced with the solution that nobody, nobody wants: a refund by the states. and by voting on this report today, we are also telling the states that such a scenario would not be the responsibility of parliamentarians.
mr president, i would like to say that the commissioner has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i would like to thank him for his support. it has always been our objective and it must be said that the revenue from the union budget must be genuine. no one can feel that they own the budget, a budget where everyone is a beneficiary, where the distinction between net beneficiaries and net taxpayers is unacceptable. with this proposal and in view of the urgency of paying the debt of the recovery and resilience plan, we have a solution that does not penalise european citizens, a solution that also helps to achieve the policy objectives in the areas of environmental and fiscal justice. it should be noted that the debt repayment of nextgenerationeu, which gave rise to the recovery and resilience plans, has a brutal impact on the eu budget. this debt will be paid off by 2058. we must not forget that it is within budget at this time, which we regret. if we look at 2021-2027, it was forecast, for interest only, 15 billion euros. well, that's about 30 billion euros. and after 2027 we must pay the depreciation as well and by 2058, which is equivalent to about 20% of the eu budget. it would be unacceptable not to have new revenue of sufficient amount to pay this debt. in fact, the council, in an interinstitutional agreement, has adopted a roadmap for the creation of new resources, with the aim of making them sufficient to pay the debt so that we do not damage or cut funds and programmes. it would be against the coming generations, against the future, against farmers and cohesion if we didn't have new revenue. congratulations to the european commission for having made the proposal, for having implemented it, for having a set of three new own resources, based on the emission allowance market, the carbon market and a statistical revenue, an existing resource for multinationals. and with these resources we have about 45 billion euros a year, which is more than enough to pay off the debt and even to reduce national contributions. we cannot burden european citizens with more taxes. who doesn't pay, must pay. the most benefiting members of the internal market must contribute more. and then we must have revenue, own resources, which also help not only tax justice, fair competition, such as the carbon border adjustment mechanism, but which, at the same time, also allow these new resources to achieve global environmental objectives and therefore the emission licence market and therefore the carbon border adjustment mechanism. the council can decide, the council has everything to decide and we hope it will not be too late.
member of the commission. – mr president, distinguished co-rapporteurs, honourable members, indeed, really, thank you for your latest report, the opportunity to debate and, more generally, for your active role on new own resources in recent years. your draft consultative opinion on our proposal to amend the own resources decision constitutes yet another element in a series of favourable reactions to our proposals. thereby, you are providing valuable support to the commission’s initiatives and setting a constructive dynamic amongst partners in the legislative process. we highly appreciate this. the commission has proposed a comprehensive set of new own resources in the process which started in december 2021, adjusted and concluded in 2023. with the latest package, the commission advanced its deliverables under our institutional agreement by one year for member states to have all the elements needed for a decision on new own resources. right now, sectoral legislation is in place for all own resources proposals, including the cbam regulation and the ets directive, which means that there are no further obstacles to stepping up negotiations on this front. to recall, the commission’s proposal of 20 june this year includes amendments for ets and cbam own resources, reflecting the sectoral legislation adopted and the new environment. it also includes a new element – a temporary statistical own resource based on company profits. this is not a tax and it will not increase the compliance costs of companies. i do acknowledge that our adjusted proposal does not fully meet parliament’s expectations. however, given the complexity and sensitivities of this file, we have to find a delicate, golden mean to ensure an agreement among and with member states. in the council, the dynamic has not been as fast as anticipated. also, more engagement is recently taking place. we understand member states’ challenges. however, delaying an agreement on own resources will not make it easier to find a solution later. overall, this adjusted basket strikes a good balance, delivers on the roadmap of the interinstitutional agreement, it is simple and it can be implemented quickly to bring to fruition the efforts made so far, new own resources must be operationalised with no delay. an agreement on own resources will be understood as a sign of european cohesion and the ability to deliver on our commitments. an agreement would further reflect positively on the union’s image on the capital markets, evaluation from rating agencies, and facilitate the repayment of ngo obligations. once again, we have a unique chance and a unique responsibility to deliver on our commitments. importantly, the commission will not put forward any additional proposals, but i am confident that an agreement on the existing basis is possible. we will endeavour to support an acceleration of the negotiations and find an agreement before the elections next june. and i was reassured by the incoming belgium presidency that they are eager to find a solution and to engage on this subject. in this process, the support of the parliament will be even more important.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, commissioner, rapporteurs, the introduction of own resources will make the eu financing more transparent, more predictable and less political. instead of having politicians every seven years politically decide how we finance the european union, this will be made in an automatic, in a transparent way. citizens, enterprises, regions will know exactly that the financing of the union is secure in the long term. this is why the introduction of own resources is the right path. we are supporting it as a european parliament and on behalf of the group of the european people’s party, i would like to announce that we are supporting the report as is put forward by the two co-rapporteurs. they have the wide backing of members of the european parliament and we are expecting the council to progress swiftly with work in these areas. the introduction of own resources will likewise allow member states to limit their direct contributions to the budget. we will collect the revenues through the own resources and it will also allow us to pay back nextgenerationeu in a stable, transparent way in the long term. this basket of own resources also allows for the responsibility, when it comes to revenues, to be in an equal, balanced manner between member states and different categories of contributions. full support for the report.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner hahn, today we are discussing a proposal on new resources for the european budget and it is a first step, but it is obviously very insufficient. nextgenerationeu, ukraine, gaza, enlargement, strategic autonomy, immigration, support for businesses, young people and farmers, investments in new energy... are needs of the present. and, if we think it is unlikely, the commission presented yesterday a plan to support the western balkans of 6 billion euros. to want to deal with all this with dignity with a budget of 1% of gdp is ridiculous. and it's also ridiculous to hear some countries ask for cuts in fundamental policies so they can finance all these new needs because there's no money. banks and power companies are making record profits; financial transactions remain tax-free; large corporations pay less tax than any citizen; the super-rich pay between 0 and 0.5 percent of their wealth. there's the money. so be brave and make a proposal to make our system fairer and our budget stronger.
on behalf of the greens/efa group. madam president, thank you to the rapporteurs for their work and follow-up on this issue, which was one of the red thread of this mandate: the creation of new own resources for the european union. parliament has always been clear about its demands: a strong european budget for a strong europe. the most transparent, fair and democratic solution is to give the union and parliament real tax powers. after four years of discussion, we are finally getting new clean resources to cover the reimbursement of the recovery plan following the covid crisis. but this package is far from what parliament is expecting. the interinstitutional agreement is clear, however, in that it provides for a set of new resources which are much more important and socially equitable than those of the first package. we are therefore awaiting new proposals from the commission, starting with corporate taxation. the proposal for statistical own resources based on corporate profits, some €16 billion a year, is a failure to face the council which is dragging its feet on fair taxation of multinationals. it will eventually be replaced by the befit legislative proposal. the european union is failing to tackle tax havens in the union, which is the elephant in the council's chamber, when it comes to achieving fair and equitable taxation. we will continue to call for a fair tax package, including better taxation of those who are now largely tax-avoidants, by proposing better taxation of capital gains, share repurchases, wealth, petrol and financial transactions.
the report is not yet available. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, our debate has only strengthened my intuition that it is time to regain leadership. and not just any leadership. i'm talking about leadership from the past with the visions of the founding fathers. we have to look up, look away from the accounts and look where we want to lead europe, we parliamentarians, heads of state, ministers, civil society, europeans. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the use of the electricity sector. these will determine the confidence that markets will continue to place in the european project. it is these that will determine whether or not the european union will have its hands free to play a level playing field with the us and chinese powers in the coming decades. it is the own resources that will define the reality of the european union of tomorrow: a club of some 30 united nations for the smallest common denominator, or finally a strong geopolitical, industrial and ecological entity. i would also like to say to the spanish presidency, which is not present, that you believe in my support and our full support for the work you are doing. this is probably one of the most difficult technical, political and ideological struggles in brussels for decades. so keep in mind that if you succeed, your victory will be even greater.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, as israeli bombs continue to rain down on civilians in gaza, our parliament will debate for the first time this week a ceasefire. i welcome the fact that the ceasefire is finally no longer a taboo in our chamber, because we were the only ones, together with my group from the left, to carry out this orderly message. i would like to ask you, mr president, to take a moment to think about the situation. it's one thing to talk about it, it's another to write it in a resolution. imagine the diplomatic impact of an official call by our european parliament for a ceasefire. imagine the strength of this message for the families of the 12,000 victims, for the more than two million palestinians who could lose their lives at any moment. i remember that at every stage of russia's vile military aggression against ukraine, our parliament rightly did not hesitate for a second to speak out through the vote on the resolution. how can we explain today that we would remain silent in the face of this massacre? this double weight, double measure towards the palestinian people would be unjustifiable and unforgivable. the reason i ask you to add to wednesday's debate the vote on a resolution calling for a clear ceasefire.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, for a world that is emitting more and more co2, what a failure and hypocrisy to always ask the same people to make efforts, when china and india account for 70% of the world's coal demand. what does mr hoekstra think of returning from china? and no one to wonder if the choice of dubai, the city that is anti-ecological in its own right, was relevant. we are constantly talking about a just and equitable transition, but the truth is that our people see it as a punishment while their countries finance the ecological transition of the world. this cop will be a failure as long as it refuses to tackle commercial globalism, to advocate localism and low-carbon technologies. instead, it will be a second communication number. a tip to go forward: it would be time to reason in terms of money invested and finally judge the results, but that would be disappointing.
madam president, commissioner, i wish this cop in dubai to go down in history. afterwards, in their teens, all emirati children, such as omani or saudi, are invited to spend a few weeks or months in the desert to experience the reality of their territory, a millennial culture of adaptation to extreme climates and the unique capacity to adapt to these climates. this cop will go down in history if it ends with artificialisation, with uniformity and with standardisation of our responses to climate change. nowhere on earth is there the same consequences, and nowhere on earth is there the same solutions. of course, nuclear power and its net zero emissions must be restarted. the fight against climate change must be undertaken, but the fight against population adaptation must also be undertaken. diversity is our human condition, and it is up to every people, nation, state to find solutions based on their geography, history and traditions. we must find the diversity of our practices and know-how in our territories, this is the localist path to ecological progress.
madam president, last year it was egypt, this year it was the united arab emirates. look for the wrong thing. the cop is about the future of humanity and life on earth, but it is possible to organize them in repressive countries, which are good communication operations or camouflage for their governments that violate human rights. as an ecologist, i can only speak out in defense of the great forgotten of this diplomatic ballet: political prisoners. i want to talk to you about ahmed mansoor. ahmed was sentenced to ten years in prison, and was unfairly tried for defending human rights in the uae. he was one of the last to do it publicly. he's been in solitary confinement for six years, which is unbearable. i call on the representatives of the commission, the member states and the council of this parliament to demand the immediate release of ahmed and the other prisoners of conscience from the emirates. climate justice and human rights must be a common struggle.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you not only for your contributions, but also for being truly a formidable force for good and a formidable force for action whenever it is the extremely important topic of climate action that is at stake. i’m actually used, madam president, to a system where you need to address every single part of every single speaker, and that then takes on for hours and hours. but i understand that now i need to fold that all into 2 to 3 minutes, which i will try to do. so let me pick out a couple of points that i think are very important to take out and to underline. and i see some of the members of your parliament already enjoying the other form as well. first of all, it was, i think, javi lópez and others who once again articulated that we are facing an extremely difficult geopolitical situation, and that makes it even more difficult to succeed at the cop. that is simply the reality we are facing. does it make the bar even harder to attain for climate action? i think so, absolutely. but yet at the same time, there is no alternative. there is no choice. so let’s take it as an inspiration that even though it is difficult, we do simply have to succeed. secondly, some people were doubting whether, you know, we’ve actually already lost in terms of 1.5 degrees, and i’m slightly more optimistic. i think we can still keep it within reach. but i also have to admit that it is an uphill battle. it is very difficult and a lot more needs to be done already at the cop. the problem is we should have started this much earlier and we’re running out of time and we are roughly on the same track in terms of direction, but the speed is too low and we have to simply speed up. third, i think it was peter liese but also others who said that, on the one hand, europe needs to take a lot of responsibility, given our affluence, given where we stand in terms of pro kopf emissions, but that actually should be bridged with the fact that others cannot hide behind the concepts of the past and should need to take responsibility. and that is something i very much agree with. and that implies that those who have the ability to pay should pay. that those who pollute a lot themselves should take that responsibility. and we see a number of countries – and i was in one of them last week, i was in china – that have made tremendous progress in terms of their economic development over the course of the last couple of decades. and with that power, with that affluence, also comes responsibility. so i wanted to underline that as well, because it is something on which i very much agree. then finally, on where we would want to put the bar, my ambition here is truly limitless. and yet, of course, the clear mandate that i need to take as the parameters is the one set by the european ministers. and that would mean that in dubai i will advocate tirelessly for a global phase-out of unabated fossil fuels and peaking in consumption this decade, ideally already by 2025 – because here again, time is running out. there is no room for new coal power; we need to move as quickly as possible to a decarbonised power system; we need to get rid of – and i’ve said it before – any sort of fossil-fuel subsidies other than those addressing energy poverty or a just transition. and i want to be crystal clear also to avoid any misunderstandings with mr eickhout in particular: emission abatement technologies are to be used in hard-to-abate sectors only. that is what they are there for, they cannot be a way out, an escape clause for doing the hard stuff because that is actually what is needed. madam president, i am very sorry for stepping over the time a bit, but i hope you will forgive me.
the discussion is closed. the vote will be held tomorrow, tuesday 21 november 2023. written declarations (article 171)
written. cop28 will start in dubai on 30 november, tackling many issues of importance to humanity. we already know that our current approach has failed to keep our planetary boundaries and to stay within the 1.5 degree global warming target. world leaders are now expected, if ever, to take drastic action and commit to halting climate change. the united arab emirates, as one of the world's largest oil producers, is not a place of great confidence at the climate conference. the debate is on the situation under the paris climate agreement. clearly, i can't hold them in any way. for example, dubai must agree to ban fossil fuels from 2035 and to stop new fossil sites from opening. aid for climate-damaging projects must be re-allocated to promote the green transition. it is good that the countries with the highest emissions compensate with the loss and damage fund under discussion in dubai for those countries that are really suffering from the catastrophes caused by climate change. often these countries are the poorest developing countries, so the solidarity of the richest countries is appropriate.
in writing. – the 28th conference of the parties (cop28) to the un framework convention on climate change will be held in dubai, united arab emirates (uae), from 30 november to 12 december 2023. the conference will conclude the first global stocktaking of climate action under the paris agreement, a two-year process to review progress and outline the way forward. at the same time, cop28 will be for those looking to tackle the pressing climate change challenges of today and tomorrow. at a time when geopolitical and geo-economic changes are reshaping society’s vision of the future, the summit provides a unique opportunity to be part of the solution. it is committed to bringing together global leaders and policymakers across the public, private, and non-profit sectors to further climate action. joying on the road to cop28, where we’re helping drive the green transition and fostering resilience across these sectors to create a more sustainable, prosperous world. it’s the ‘year of sustainability’ in the uae, and the ep delegation is gearing up to lead key discussions to accelerate shared solutions that could help us collectively reach net zero and meet sustainability goals.
before we move on to the next debate, i would like to inform the house that the epp has issued a decision to amend the appointments to a delegation. this decision will be included in the minutes of today's sitting and will come into force from this announcement.
the agenda calls into question the report by christian ehler, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the framework for measures to strengthen the european eco-system for the production of net-emission technologies (net-emission industry regulation) (com (2023) 0161 - c9-0062/2023 - 2023/0081 (cod)) (a9-0343/2023)
the report is not yet available. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. we were just talking about what we want. we are discussing how we are actually doing this on the agenda. the commission presented the green deal at the beginning of the legislative term, which combines a great climate ambition which i think we share in a large part, but also the question of how to link the european economy and the jobs involved and the social acceptance associated with it. and the green deal should be a concept, combining this with an economy, the viability of the european economy. and it's not a balance between economics and ecology, but it's going to give us the industry, the technology, the innovation, the means to actually realize our ambitions. the net-zero industry regulation is the commission's first response to this issue after three years. it is a response to a challenge we are receiving from the united states. actually , i have good news . the americans are going with us on the road to climate change. but they are going with an economic strategy that is simple, robust, that takes on conflict of interest and that, of course, challenges the economic model in europe. we have discussed this as a parliament for months and it goes far beyond the commission's ambitions: we're looking at the entire value chain. we're looking at the entire supply chain. we believe that we will find a model for europe whereby the green transformation can also lead europe economically into the future. but that means we have to act radically. we need to deregulate. this is not a conflict of social or environmental obligations. but we also need to take on and resolve conflict of interest. we need to approve faster. we must give net-zero technologies the opportunity to find an attractive environment in europe. we do not have to do anything appealing in general, but we are proposing in this parliament to create net-zero industrial valleys in europe, to approve them more quickly, to set financial conditions, to encourage innovation, to deregulate, to remove obstacles so that we can be the continent that is most economically, most innovative in tackling the challenge of climate change, but also that is leading europe's economy, jobs and our societies into the future. i think the draft of parliament is courageous. it was a long debate, but it basically shows the way to the next legislative term. it's about implementation, it's not about whether or not, it's about how. it's about encouraging innovation, trusting our own abilities, not just trying to slow down, but encouraging. i am very optimistic that we will now proceed to speedy negotiations with the council on the proposal which we are going to put to the vote here tomorrow. i think it's the look to the future, it's europe's response not just to the inflation reduction act, but it's europe's response to having confidence in our own abilities, having confidence in our economy, connecting the future of our economy with net-zero technologies. and i think it's a bold move. it is an ambitious step, but we can also take it quickly together, otherwise decarbonisation of the european economy will only fall to deindustrialization. we want to link the decarbonisation of the european economy with innovation, with the economy, with people, with jobs and with the future.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. – madam president, commissioner, econ has only very limited responsibility in this file, and we focus our work on avoiding fragmentation of the market, keeping the level playing field and promoting the financial tools apart of subsidies. nevertheless, this file has very far-reaching economic consequences. transformation of the economy to low emission and sustainable use of resources requires a lot of changes, and certainly includes transformation costs. only in the case that at the same time we mobilise new investments, on balance we will achieve the stronger economy at the end. so, the competitiveness of the supply side that is the goal of this file is very, very important, but at the same time we should also consider that measures used by some of our competitors, notably the us in inflation reduction act, that are focusing on strengthening the demand side should be considered too. maybe they will serve as a valuable contribution to our efforts, support and promote the necessary transformation of our economy.
report for an opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. madam president, mr commissioner, we must do everything we can to achieve our climate objectives. we must do everything we can to relocate our industries. we must do everything we can to end our addictions. we must do everything we can to meet the labour needs of our companies and to train our workers. the answer is european: it is the regulation on a zero-industry. in particular, we are laying the groundwork for a legislative act promoting the purchase of european products (the buy european act). this will require stricter criteria for awarding public procurement (whether social or environmental) so that our european companies are no longer at a disadvantage. this will be through targeted training so that european workers have the necessary skills. this will be through a simpler licensing system for clean technology plants. only in this way, as europeans, will we be able to keep the pace set from the beginning of the mandate - climate, competitiveness, sovereignty - and all at the same time.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is consulted by the european parliament and the council. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of certain products. i believe that the net-zero industrial regulation must send a clear industrial policy signal from the european union that we want to produce the key industries for the future, such as battery manufacturing, solar manufacturing or even wind and heat pumps here in the european union, and to ensure that we do not get into dangerous dependencies. we need the net-zero industry regulation to do this, even if it is not yet the perfect answer to the inflation reduction act. i think it is very important that we have come to the point where the net zero list of technologies allows member states to choose their technologies; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used to finance the projects. i think it is very important to me that there is still no money from the european budget for nuclear technology. it is not recognized as strategic, and this is particularly important given that in the united states, small modular reactors have become a billion-dollar fossil. and finally, i think we need to make it clear that deregulation does not mean lowering levels of protection, and that is what we are doing with this report.
the commission's opinion on the internal market and consumer protection. president, commissioner, colleagues, our european industry faces the urgent challenge of further strengthening our competitiveness. i would therefore like to congratulate christian ehler on this european response to the us inflation reduction act. the public sector also has a role to play here, by not only choosing the cheapest technologies in public procurement but also differentiating supply so that we become less dependent on third countries and create a market for our own products from our own producers. but our european ambitions in this transition are very high. i therefore warn against the introduction of additional social protectionist criteria which threaten to make the process of public procurement even more complex and put pressure on the cost and speed of our green transition in the short term. let us, above all, ensure that legislation is put into place for our companies that really strengthens our competitiveness.
member of the commission. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his very important work on this text and on industry, and i would like to pay tribute to him here today, for his work on this text, but also for all he has done for the last four years in the common interest of europe. so our subject is a concrete subject, a subject of implementation and implementation. we know that strategy is important, but implementation and implementation are even more important. and that's what we're talking about tonight for chips, batteries, solar panels, hydrogen and raw materials. this is a whole new playing field that is emerging around us, with a global race to develop industrial production capacities in developed countries, and therefore to employment, growth and political influence. in this context, we must organise ourselves as europeans, not by trying to correct our weaknesses, but by building on our strengths. our strength is obviously our internal market. in this respect, the last few months have shown a profound change in perspective in the union. we cannot replace our energy dependencies, which have been seen to be expensive, with technological dependencies (solar panels, electric cars, wind turbines, wind turbines, chemicals, etc.). the commission's roadmap is clear: it is a matter of dramatically and very quickly increasing our manufacturing capacity in the service of zero-emission technologies. these technologies, such as renewable energy, nuclear and alternative fuels, are all essential. each of them, of course, in its place, to ensure europe's access to safe and abundant decarbonised electricity, which we need so much for the transition. the purpose of this regulation is to give europe the industrial capacity to implement our energy and climate ambitions. i would like to thank the european parliament and the itre commission in particular very sincerely for taking such a step and for having broadly supported our proposal. because all these technologies are huge investments, and money doesn't fall out of the sky. under these conditions, you have to think, work. the amounts are obviously considerable: eur 90 billion for the solar, wind and battery value chains alone. we have proposed a real revolution. first, the introduction of production capacity targets for 2030: 40% of our deployment needs for clean technologies. but beyond these objectives, we are also providing the means to implement this emerging pool of projects, with a continuous global perspective. firstly, we want to take concrete action to simplify administrative procedures. simplification is a major challenge for our businesses, our industries, our smes. five years to get a license is too long. we want to reduce this time to more than half by optimising the existing procedures. parliament is further reinforcing the commission's approach by shortening deadlines and strengthening the legal provisions on the tacit agreement, so that by promoting the concept of a net zero industry, we can have places where we can go faster, with adequate administrative procedures and funding. parliament also wants to extend the scope by adding a number of complementary technologies to the list of technologies, but also by opening up the scope to the entire value chain. this is an interesting point which i think we will of course have to discuss with all the member states. secondly, we want to invest in skills. that is a crucial point. a european battery academy has already been launched with over 340,000 employees and we will extend these academies to all clean technology sectors, including nuclear. i see parliament's willingness to be equally ambitious on these issues and we will obviously be very attentive to funding issues. thirdly, we intend to support innovation (which is the role of regulatory sandbeds in particular) to push the boundary of innovation and maintain european leadership. parliament is also extending its scope by opening up regulatory sandbeds to other innovative technologies. i think this is a relevant idea and it is important to discuss it. fourthly, we have proposed adjusting access to market conditions to promote sustainability but also resilience objectives, without compromising efforts to deploy clean energy. parliament also has strong ambitions in this area by proposing a higher weighting of non-price application criteria or by allowing prequalification criteria to be applied. many of these points echo the commission's views, particularly those presented in the wind energy package a few weeks ago. finally, i would like to say a few words about carbon capture and storage. the commission notes that parliament wishes to extend the scope of the value chain to cover also co2 transport infrastructure. we can welcome this, provided that it remains proportionate and targeted. and one last word before i close. parliament proposes the creation of a european scientific advisory committee on the examination of the regulatory burden. this is a very important subject which goes far beyond the single scope of this regulation which we are discussing tonight. i would like to say something here, ladies and gentlemen, and let me congratulate you on the work done by the committee and the rapporteur and all those who have contributed to the quality and ambition of this report.
opinion of the committee on international trade. i am speaking as rapporteur of the opinion of the international trade commission, where we do not have exclusive competence in any article, but the crucial role that international trade plays in helping to achieve the objectives of this necessary regulation, in facilitating the technological transition and in driving the investments we so much need. and why is it so important that the international trade commission issues this report? because it is essential that value chains can ensure the technological momentum we want throughout the chain: that competitiveness of a clean industry. it is therefore essential that we work on different instruments of trade opening that allow us to keep these value chains open. closed trade, protectionism, will not allow us to achieve any of these goals. it is also essential to emphasize trade defence instruments to ensure balanced rules of the game. i would like to thank the rapporteur of the committee responsible for the fund and all the alternate rapporteurs of the international trade commission and congratulate them on their excellent work and on their spirit of cooperation and cooperation, which has allowed us to make proposals more ambitious than those put forward by the commission and which, as the commissioner has pointed out in part, i hope will help to push them forward and achieve.
the submission of an opinion by the committee on transport and tourism. - mrs. speaker, please. the climate crisis is acute and the pace of change must increase. at the same time, we are seeing a recession in europe and we must focus on both industry and the green transition. especially when the united states finally starts showing its lead on climate change and is pushing for its inflation-reduction law. so i think we're missing out on the opportunity here in the net zero industry act to not just bet on batteries, which is of course good for cars and trucks. but we're forgetting the railroad. the best way to reduce emissions from the sector with the highest emissions growth is by investing in railways. so i think this is a missed opportunity to do what's best for the green transition.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for the european union the green transition is not only a strategy to combat climate change, it is also our growth agenda for the coming decades. the objectives of job creation, wealth, strategic autonomy and competitiveness in global chess are centered around this. in order to succeed in this path, it is essential to ensure the self-sufficiency of the european union in the development and production of so-called essential technologies. in particular, those that are connected to energy, a key pillar of the green transition, such as technologies linked to renewable energy, electrolytic and fuel cells, carbon capture and storage and use, power grid technologies, among many other technologies. we will only succeed in the fight against climate change if we ensure the successful energy transition, not only by replacing fossil fuels, but also with very significant gains in energy efficiency. and we will only make this transition by supporting our industry with special attention to small and medium-sized enterprises. i would like to congratulate my colleague christian ehler on the excellent report on the zero impact industry regulation, which is built on these principles and puts us on the right path to achieve our objectives.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, commissioner breton, i would like to add one more case on european industry which we have treated very seriously in the european parliament and congratulate the rapporteur and the former shadow rapporteurs, because the naive period of no more talking about european industry would seem to be over and now we are all dealing with serious matters. i want to refer to something that i thought was extremely important in this legislative proposal: establishing development hubs for industries that have zero carbon emissions. that we're talking about batteries, that we're talking about hydrogen, that we're talking about solar panels, that we're talking about processing and using critical or strategic materials that contribute to a zero-carbon industry, that's something that's amazing and it needs to be running as fast as possible. at step, commissioner, we managed to introduce funding and i said -- we did mirroring, so i mirrored the list in this step file -- and i said that these things are financed by step. so here's a very serious approach and it shows that europe has understood and is taking the necessary steps to make everything that is important to us happen - these steps - and to have a european industry that can help us achieve our 2030 climate goals, for 2050. this is an extraordinary thing! once again, congratulations to you, commissioner, and to our colleagues in the european parliament who have done an extraordinary job.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr commissioner, every day workers install solar panels, wind turbines and batteries on our european continent. unfortunately, most of these technologies are not produced in europe. we need to end this addiction, we need to end this anomaly. with this new european text, we will accelerate the production of green technologies by simplifying the installation of plants and thus re-industrialisation, while also showing less naivety in our public procurement. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. we must therefore change this with a first step towards a european preference for our public procurement. the european parliament sends a strong message here. let us produce more in europe the technologies we need to fight global warming.
on behalf of the greens/efa group. madam president, commissioner, this was a missed opportunity. this is the very dark future that the dogmatism of the conservatives, liberals and social democrats, coupled with the powerful voices of the oil and gas industry, is impose on us, which through fake ngos and real lobbying, are keen to cut their share and make new profits in the new market for carbon capture and storage. we were going to compete with the ambitions and billions of dollars in the us law on reducing inflation and fighting climate change. we end up with no priorities, no vision, no euro. by focusing on existing clean and safe technologies and by drawing up a legislative act to promote the purchase of european products (buy european act), we could nevertheless develop an ambitious european industrial strategy focused on the transition to a net zero economy to both save the climate, guarantee our industrial autonomy and create quality green jobs. instead of these orientations, business as usual and technological revolutionism were given priority. we have chosen to support industry without any decarbonisation, to revive the energies of the past while betting on immature and unreliable technologies such as co2 capture and storage, and to at the same time adopt the natura 2000 zones, the birds and habitats directives, the precautionary and non-harmful principles. in short, we don't change anything, we emit more and more co2, we destroy the climate a little bit more and we cross our fingers so that in 20 or 30 years, we can store co2 sustainably. we lose 30 years and our chances of staying below 1.5 degrees of warming while the temperature felt in rio today is 50.6 degrees. this is the very dark future that lies ahead, ladies and gentlemen, when the solutions exist and we all know it.
the commissioner, madam president, is a great day because the european union, which has long been focused on competition and the regulation of the internal market, is finally embarking on a common industrial strategy to decarbonise our continent. i think this vote will be an important moment and a moment, let me say, quite revealing too. we heard our colleague from the green group explain that the vice of this text was that it relied on energy from the past after warning us of the urgency of global warming. we agree, of course, with decarbonisation, and of course we believe in the need to move away from production models that have damaged our environment. but i think we can say together that our fellow environmentalists are not sincere when they talk about global warming. they are no longer here to answer i am sorry, perhaps other colleagues will also speak but when the green group has a priority on this text to table an amendment to exclude nuclear energy, perhaps it is this energy that our colleague has referred to as the energy of the past, to exclude nuclear energy from this european strategy for decarbonisation. nuclear power is not a thing of the past. as you probably know, my colleagues, nuclear power now accounts for 25% of all electricity produced in the european union and is the leading source of decarbonised energy in europe. to use nuclear weapons when you claim to be defending the climate is actually to show that you do not really believe in the climate emergency. it is to show that in reality what we are advocating is first the decline of our continent, first the impoverishment of all europe, and finally the end of industrial production in our european countries. and unfortunately, you'll find many allies in your back-guard cause during this term. i believe that the battle has finally been won, and will be won, i have no doubt, in the vote this week. we have a duty to ensure that we defend the climate with science, with technology, with our engineers, with our technicians, with all those who know that it is in the progress of knowledge that we will save the climate, that we will preserve the environment and not in the regression and decline.
madam president, colleagues, it will take a while for the global economy to be completely crippled by the covid-19 pandemic and for our soil to be the scene of a major crisis before you begin to understand the vital importance of our industries. for decades you have been promoting the dogma of the market and the sacred principle of free and unfettered competition in the industrial sector. for decades you have tried to make us believe that producing our industrial goods on our soil was a mistake and that we should prefer to relocate to countries where workers are exploited and deprived of any social protection. for too long you have mocked all those who dare to consider the strategic intervention of the state and you have concluded free trade treaties without discernment and without worrying about the consequences for our economy and our labour force. the text we are voting on this week, although imperfect, marks a step in the right direction for re-industrialising our nations. but it is sad to see that once again you have shown your inability to anticipate crises and to have a solid strategic vision. europe must rebuild itself industrially and encourage innovation to regain the greatness of our civilization.
- madam president, please. so the best thing about the net-zero industry regulation is really their name. the private sector is still the driving force behind the transformation, not the public sector. instead of enabling massive european government investment in strategic technologies, the incentives for private investment are being used as usual invest eu instead of eu investment. it's always the same. secondly, where public funds are used, social and environmental criteria are much lagged behind. we must talk about clear terms good work, wages, location guarantees, the highest environmental standards yes, and please also about public control. and it must also be clear that companies that benefit from public investment do not pay dividends to their shareholders. so, and the third is the list of strategic net-zero technologies. now they're a mixed-use e-fuel store, nuclear technology -- these are harmful technologies that are now called strategic. in that respect, the whole thing is a fake package with a really nice name.
madam president, remember that the law on reducing inflation reserved its market for clean technology products produced on american soil, and as a result the european market was overwhelmed with chinese photovoltaic panels at competitive prices. an unacceptable dependency on the photovoltaic sector, where a single country now produces 80% of the world's components. our target by 2030: the eu's production capacity for these strategic technologies should reach at least 40% of the eu's annual needs. yes, we are coming out of naivety. we are the most successful continent in environmental and social policy, but these standards must also apply to our partners and not to the detriment of our businesses and households in our internal market. in a european tendering procedure, the lowest price is no longer the only criterion to be taken into account. we also need to think about resilience, sustainability and social goals. companies that have invested in the climate transition must be recognised and those using forced labour must be banned from participating in european public procurement. let us transform and expand this approach to promote european digital production, which is equally essential for our sovereignty.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after decades of industrial destruction, it is time to repair europe. the european commission's proposal aims to repair more products under the legal guarantee. it also wants consumers to have easier and cheaper options for getting products repaired when the legal guarantee has expired. in fact, we are all aware of the programmed obsolescence of spare parts that are not available or are more expensive than the device. this has also been seen with companies like apple pushing for overconsumption with the release of new laptops every six months. we share the aim of encouraging practices promoting the circular economy, where an informed consumer would first choose to repair a product before replacing it, mainly for the purpose of combating overconsumption and waste and any pollution resulting therefrom. we can only regret that repair services, which provide local jobs, are too often inaccessible because, for example, there is a lack of access to affordable spare parts. the commission wants to tackle waste, and this is done by empowering consumers and producers in particular. either that or not. this would be a commendable idea if the commission itself applied its own rules. the best example is the over-order of vaccines at big pharma: 4.6 billion doses for 768 million injections in europe. how many doses are destroyed, how many doses are wasted? how much will it cost european taxpayers? who benefits from this scandal?
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, mr rapporteur, mr commissioner, the liberal oak, which eats profits after profits, fuels overconsumption, which is harmful to both the planet and its citizens. when it is cheaper to buy new than to repair, citizens' choice to consume is understandable. but you 're right . in 2023, we're back to our common sense: repair. it's still pretty amazing to be allowed to repair his products today, when our grandparents naturally did. and we voted yesterday on a text called "eco design", another text today that we will vote tomorrow on repair. after tomorrow, it'll be the green allegations. and all this is part of a dynamic that will allow us, through european law, to move towards consumer and planetary protection. and companies have their responsibilities too. yes, they will need replacement parts within a reasonable time. yes, they'll have to have coins at an affordable price. yes, planned obsolescence must be penalized. so tomorrow, colleagues, let us vote for the stakes. because i think the consumer portfolio and the planet will only get better.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, the idea is attractive: to pay farmers to capture carbon on their land through a voluntary, attractive and credible framework. but it will be the opposite. their administrative burden will be very heavy. they will be responsible for the control and maintenance of the carbon sequestered, subject to fine. and this system will eventually become mandatory with far more constraints. what we forget to say is that this framework is necessary if we are to comply with the green pact: hundreds of millions of tonnes of co2 which must be accounted for through this legal framework and reduced according to market logic. this is the first step towards integrating the agricultural world into the european carbon market, one of the last sectors to resist. finally, this text opens the way to carbon offsetting fraud: the purchase of quotas by multinationals to do greenwashing or even commit fraud. our farmers are here to feed us, not to use us as a variable for adapting to european climate policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, peace is buried under the rubble of gaza. peace is the first word in the schuman declaration. since 1950, the world has been told that peace is the raison d'être of the european project. and when it is time to put the founding principles into practice, what does europe do? the war. in gaza, israeli bombs are raining on hospitals. in school, children are being massacred by idf missiles. what is ursula von der leyen doing? she's standing next to the bombs. it could have demanded a ceasefire, recalled its ambassador to israel, suspended the eu-israel association agreement. - i'm not. europe has failed. that is why we want to table a motion of censure against the european commission. this is a power that the european parliament has and we must use today. the world is watching us. i therefore ask you solemnly to sign this motion for censure demanding a ceasefire, the only way to achieve peace.
mr president, how is it that there is a member state, spain, where there are protests of a million people, where an opponent is the victim of an assassination attempt and you can remain silent? to maintain power at all costs, pedro sánchez's socialist government waits for the spanish constitution. it decides to grant amnesty to fugitive criminals, some of whom are in brussels, which is quite symbolic. it also calls on spain to go on the path of separatist dislocation, not to mention undignified police repression. spain faces a clear violation of the rule of law, institutional legality and political morality. the silence of the european institutions, which are so quick to punish poland and hungary for alleged violations of the rule of law, is deafening. if you continue to look elsewhere without demanding respect for the rule of law in spain, you will not only discredit yourself but also dishonor yourself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, three french departments - mayotte, martinique and guadeloupe - are facing a severe shortage of drinking water. but the eu's priorities are clearly elsewhere than helping overseas. i regret this regularly, and again in the interparliamentary committee on 7 november. the european commission, like other european parliamentarians overseas, are reluctant to help mayotte. it is financing its neighbour, the union of the comoros, with a total of eur 30 million. how can it be admitted that france, the contributing and founding state of the european union, is so little regarded by the commission? it prefers a state totally outside europe, which is constantly provoking france. these additional €30 million of european contributions were paid by tax from the french and hence the mahorais. france will not forget the strange priorities of the european commission. we will not forget anything, and the french will judge in their souls and consciences in the coming times.
madam president, the hell with good intentions, this regulation too. while the pesticide reduction objective is commendable, its achievement still poses important scientific and social problems. the european commissioners, in the wake of the failure of a previous directive, set limits by proposing a regulation to reduce pesticides by 50% by 2030. these figures came out of nowhere, with no justification. this decrease of 50% will be compared to the average consumption in the years 2011-2013. however, since 2011, the use of pesticides has increased. so imposing such constraints so quickly cannot work without causing enormous problems, especially in the agricultural world already heavily affected by your standards. the funding for alternative research is also very insufficient and the question of implementation will also arise. will we review the tolerance of imported coffee and tea, or will it be banned? will we set quotas for pesticide consumption per farmer while still sovietising the agricultural market? once again, we are talking about ecological lobsters without any sense of reality or any scientific basis.
mr president, commissioner, you are not even hiding your delusional goal of moving to 100% electricity for heavyweights and cars anymore, and it does not matter whether the news warns us every day about the dangers of this utopian choice. you are closing the transport sector in a one-way street, disregarding the freedom of the market that you are constantly defending. the choice of all-electric cars was already disconnected from industrial, environmental and economic realities. but making this choice for heavyweights shows your profound ignorance of how this industry works. an electric truck costs 300,000 euros today, three times more than the same diesel truck. his interview is also three times more expensive. so go tell the transport companies they're gonna have to switch to all-electric in 15 years. this choice is also a green contrast. you are making us dependent on the global supply of lithium and cobalt, extracted under ultra-polluting conditions on the other side of the world and i recall, exploiting child labour. that's totally disgusting! in short, trying to move pollution from our cities to the third world does not make you an environmentalist or a humanist.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already decided to extend the period of time between the two countries. this free trade agreement with new zealand is not a new generation agreement, but a continuation of old mistakes. it's worse! your text is not an opportunity. it's an aberration. ideology first. which shows that your green deal is quickly forgotten when it comes to free trade. agricultural aberration follows, as european agriculture is open to all winds of unbridled competition with increased imports of sheepmeat and beef, milk, cheese, butter, apples, kiwis and many others. 38,000 tonnes of sheep meat, 10,000 tonnes of beef, 15,000 tonnes of butter, 25,000 tonnes of cheese, 15,000 tonnes of milk powder... these are the staggering figures of new zealand production that will be poured into our supermarkets. finally, it is an economic aberration. there are five million inhabitants in new zealand, 448 million in the european union. so there are 90 times more potential consumers gained by new zealanders than by us in this partnership. behind some communication devices, there is always the same ideology at work: the container carriers that ravage the planet, the unfair competition that massacres local industries and macron who does not defend our interests. the europe of macron and van der leyen is perfectly synthesized in this new economic betrayal of the french people. they want free trade globally at all costs. we will unconditionally defend the farmers and the interests of the french.
madam president, mr commissioner, yes, i will vote in favour of the agreement between the european union and new zealand. yes, i support the progress made with a reliable and ambitious partner, with a parliamentary democracy that looks like us. yes, i support the environmental guarantees contained in the agreement, with the mention of the paris agreement and finally with a system of sanctions. i am in favour of the concrete economic gains for european and french companies and the recognition of geographical indications. we will then be the only french political force capable of taking on such a vision. the other delegations often go against their european group, which is still in an outdated ideological framework, when this agreement must become a minimum standard, a standard for all current and future negotiations. it is only with the reciprocity of environmental and agricultural standards that we will advance, and this agreement shapes them. only then, with this agreement, can we establish a regular, lasting and fair trade. so let's move on with this agreement. we must not be populists as the far right can be, as they have been recently. and we are really moving forward to shape global trade and not stick to the dogmas of the past. (the speaker agrees to answer a question in blue card)
question no 4 by mrs vedrenne. i saw that you have been very strongly defending this new free trade agreement. i have a question for you. who said in 2020: delegating our food, our protection, our ability to care for our environment, deep down, to others, is crazy. it is obviously emmanuel macron. what will you say to the french and european milk producers who are already unable to live off their production, to run out of stocks, to feed themselves? what will you say to them when they face unfair competition from new zealand milk, knowing that new zealand is the world's leading milk exporter?
answer: blue card. as i was saying, i was looking forward to this blue card for a real debate on these subjects. yes, you are right, emmanuel macron said that. and what is our action here in the european parliament? not be in dogma, but actually act to shape trade agreements. because you're telling us you don't want trade deals, okay, but you don't want trade deals, what rules do you mean? while we have sometimes fought here against our political group to shape these new rules. i have not waited until today, and i am on the ground every day with the farmers, with the breton farmers in particular, to shape the rules. so we will continue to fight, and i also turn to the commissioner, the challenge will be implementation, and he knows that i will be extremely demanding here too.
the reaction is blue card. we like parliamentary debate, so i thank you for this answer, but i am still hungry. i shall give a concrete example: a milk producer in france today sells 450 or 500 euros of his 1000 litres of milk, and he cannot survive. he will see milk coming from new zealand, which has been around the world (so it already makes no sense ecologically) and is also produced with pesticides banned in europe, such as latrazine. and what would you say to him if he saw that milk from the other end of the world is sold for less, and he himself could not live on it? what about the consumer? sorry, new zealand milk is cheaper, but buy this one, it's better for the planet? you see, it has no ecological or social meaning. so, yes, trade is good when we can't produce from our country, but in the case of milk, we already have a bunch of milk producers who can't live off it.
question on the procedure of the blue card. very honourable colleague vedrenne! i would like to ask the commissioner if he can agree with me that european agricultural exports far exceed european agricultural imports so that in the end european agriculture benefits from this trade agreement. and secondly, do you agree with me that there will always be some reason why the french left will vote against any trade agreement?
answer: blue card. i shall try to combine the two elements and i shall go back to mr caspary's words to also give an answer to mrs aubry. because, mr caspary, you are right to point out that the french are making the climate argument for imports, but never for exports. i must admit, however, that this is not the case with manon aubry. others did, but not her. i would therefore like to thank you for this question, which makes it possible to highlight the inconsistency of some french parliamentarians from different political backgrounds, particularly from the far right. to answer the question of reciprocity more specifically, we will continue to fight, as we do every day on the questions of mirror measures. but i will not let you say that products entering the european market do not meet european standards. there are indeed unfair competition issues, but there is real respect for the issue of public health.
madam president, if only we had farmers in europe who produced quality milk and cheese. if only our orchards were full of apple trees and our fields of vineyards. i know, i'm dreaming. but thankfully, mr commissioner, and you, my colleagues, who are never short of great ideas, are going to take this wrong step. thanks to your free trade agreement with new zealand, you will allow thousands of tons of milk and cheese, apples and wine to travel 20,000 kilometers in ultra-polluted cargo ships to land on our supermarket stalls, with a bonus of pesticides like latrazine, which is theoretically banned in our country. congratulations, colleagues, and stop the bad language that would dare to say that this would accelerate climate chaos, undermine our food autonomy even a little more, subject our farmers to unfair competition and go against the economic sovereignty so much boasted by mr macron. i am not sure what the commission is going to do with this. there is a choice, it is clear: it is the land or the container carriers.
the question we must ask ourselves is: do we really need to import tens of thousands of tonnes of apples, kiwis, onions, wine, lamb, butter, milk powder and fish into europe? what are the benefits? is it reasonable to remove all these quotas on certain goods which europe produces in abundance? is it ecologically reasonable to further increase global trade flows with greenhouse gases and various pollutants generated by 40 days at sea? is it permissible to return banned molecules in the union, such as latrazine? the prime minister of new zealand explained that the agreement had enormous advantages. but for whom? for the global agribusiness it is certainly less safe, for the demanding standards we are trying to set. but for farmers, there is none. with this agreement, the real aim of which is the consolidation of the union in the south pacific, our agriculture is now a mere currency of exchange. the agreement, ladies and gentlemen, is a past-looking trade agreement without taking into account the real issues at stake. it must not be ratified by the state.
the commission will also be consulted on the draft budget. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the importation of certain products from the community. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. so like you, if i were a brussels bureaucrat, i would force kids to finish their lego in stores to avoid these unnecessary boxes. if i were a bureaucrat, i'd have a one size fits all cabin bags. if i were a bureaucrat, i'd replace steaks with insects because cows threaten the argentine glaciers. i would also ban thermal-powered cars and cheap airplanes. if i were a bureaucrat, i would also ban twitter and put in place widespread surveillance. i would also ban the words "christmas", "madame", "monsieur", "il", "hello". it is with these methods that bureaucrats find themselves banning our camembert boxes because they saw plastic waste on a beach while on holiday in bali. we are, of course, in favour of recycling packaging and against this unnecessary plastic. we already have a law in france, so let's let the french live in france, and the europeans live in europe.
mr president, everyone agrees with the idea of fighting overconsumption, waste, unnecessary production and in this respect the pursuit of packaging, however short-lived and unnecessary, can only increase the number of people who join. in principle, there is no objection, but it is the application text that raises problems. as always, you're in everything or nothing. you're sinking into some absurd normative madness. in this case, you are incorporating into your regulations our wooden cheese boxes, camembert or other, traditional and biodegradable packaging which is essential to make the product live and to give it a tasty quality. you have the genius to turn a good idea into an aberration, a consensus into a pushback. in fact, this lack of nuance and knowledge, this lack of discernment and elegance, this lack of know-how and this disregard for people are emblematic of what the european union is deeply about: a bureaucracy that knows only accounting or statistical logic, a moralising empire that wants to eliminate national realities. we must not forget that europe is first of all a people, a people with their way of life.
the report is not yet available. mr president, vice-presidents, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency of the council! first of all, i would like to thank my four co-rapporters and all the staff who have worked on this report as assistants, as staff of the group's secretariats, the exit secretariats. i would also like to thank mr jacek saryusz-wolski, who brought the ecr's views on the prospect to work but did not want or could not take part in our present offer. we have been working together over the past year to anticipate the treaties step by step and have made historically important attempts to find compromises on the implementation of the recommendations of the eu future conference as the red guide for our work to translate the conclusions of the future conference into policy, working together in the citizen actors and then in the plenary conference with representatives of representative democracies at eu and member state level, to the committee of the regions, the economic and social committee or the social partners, to organised civil society and free expression on the digital platform. thank you for your initiative, vice president šuica! this was a promise and a commitment by the council, parliament and commission on 9 may 2022. the report is now being delivered to parliament. we want to enable the council, both strategically and legally binding, to convene a convention amending the european treaties in accordance with article 48 together with the european parliament. i think that this initiative should be understood not only as an unusually large legislative initiative report, as a parliamentary bill, but also as an experiment in democracy. our approach from the outset was consensual in developing changes to the treaties in the institutional sphere as well as in the policy areas where the future conference identified the need for change. we have not yet been able to find a solution to the problem of the problem of the european parliament. the fact that we have managed to achieve a good result with all our efforts is therefore, in my view, a success in itself, but also a lesson in how deliberative democracy can work. without this process, there would be no report. but it was also an extraordinary file, not just an extraordinary process. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment, which is intended to help the member states to ensure that the protection of the environment and the environment are protected, is based on the principle of subsidiarity and is based on the principle of equal treatment. i therefore consider that the fact that these forthcoming reform efforts are now taking place against the background of a large citizen participation in the future of the european union is a historically unique process. and that is why it is right and important that the left in europe, in the eu, also join this discussion to help shape the treaties for a better eu. i am aware of the importance of implementing the recommendations as far as possible. i hope that the report will be widely supported here in this house tomorrow, so that parliament can win the council with its promise to take this work forward and then in a broad social dialogue start changing the treaties.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-presidents šefčovič and šuica, i would like to thank the presidency of the council for inviting me to participate in this important debate. the presidency has closely followed the work of the constitutional affairs committee in preparing the european parliament's proposals for the reform of the treaties. as you know, we are in the council at a very important moment in the institutional debate on the future of europe. vice-president šefčovič will be able to confirm the council's work with the commission, the progress made in this debate and the council's commitment to it. we are awaiting the outcome of this debate today and the vote of this house tomorrow. after transmitting to the council parliament's proposals for the reform of the treaties which may be adopted by the plenary, the council shall act in accordance with its obligations under article 48 of the treaty. in this connection, if the proposals of the european parliament are received in time, the presidency is determined to propose that the council adopt a decision to forward parliament's proposals to the european council at the next general affairs council meeting on 12 december. and i repeat this commitment of the spanish presidency to this house. as you know, the council's decision, pursuant to article 48 of the treaty, to forward the proposals of the european parliament to the european council is a purely procedural decision which the council will take in accordance with the council's rules of procedure. i would like to conclude by simply reiterating, mr president, my thanks to the speakers' comments which i have listened to carefully, which i have taken note of and which i will continue to take care of. the council will closely follow the rest of the honourable members' interventions in this debate, which is particularly relevant for the future of europe. as you know, spain has always been a country, always a member state, committed to the debates and results of the conference on the future of europe.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, my dear colleague, state secretary, mr navarro ríos, my dear colleague, vice-president dubravka šuica , indeed, today we participate in a very important debate because from the outset, the treaties establish the values and principles upon which our union is based. they define the competences of the union and the powers of each institution. the treaties are the backbone of our european union, which has a unique construction in the world. for all our institutions, the treaties are the basis of our action. they define the rules according to which we deal on a daily basis with the challenges that the union is facing. and since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty in 2009, the union has been confronted with many challenges: the financial crisis, the pandemic, the war in ukraine, just to name a few. and faced with these crises, we successfully used the tools available under the existing framework. while we have often managed to find solutions based on political will and creativity, these crises have also here and there shown certain limits of the current framework, including the institutional framework and the competences conferred upon the union. the next big political priority ahead of us is, of course, enlargement. this can be a catalyst for progress; while we widen our union, we can also deepen it. we must ensure that our institutional framework and our policies are fit for the new geopolitical reality – i would say fit for the future. the new situation has led to reflections on whether and which reforms are necessary at this point in time, in particular to prepare for the upcoming enlargement. and i can clearly confirm that thanks to the swedish and spanish presidencies, the general affairs council have in recent months had several discussions on how the union should be possibly reformed in the view of enlargement. today’s debate and tomorrow’s vote on parliament’s proposals for amendments to the treaties therefore come at a crucial moment in time. and i would like to thank the five co-rapporteurs in the afco committee and all the associated committees for the impressive work done on this report, which followed up on parliament’s call for the european convention in may and june last year. the commission will always support those who want to reform the eu to make it work better for its citizens. in her state of the union address in september, president von der leyen expressed her support to the call of this house for european convention and treaty change if and where it is needed. as regards the parliament’s proposals for treaty changes, it will be first and foremost for the council and the european council to follow up on parliament’s resolution. the commission stands ready to fully play its institutional role in the procedures set out in the treaty on the european union. in particular, we are ready to give our opinion in response to a consultation by the european council. from the outset, i want to assure you of the commission’s full commitment to play an active role in the process. one thing is clear, however, we cannot wait for treaty change to move ahead with enlargement. this is why president von der leyen announced that the commission will start working on a series of pre-enlargement policy reviews to see how each area may need to be adapted to a larger union. they will also address the question on how our institutions would work, how the parliament and the commission would look. institutional questions are complex as they concern the very architecture of our union. they are also sensitive as they touch upon the respective powers, and the balance of powers, of the institutions. there will be challenging discussions ahead of us that will require us to be visionary and bold in shaping the europe of the future. the commission is getting ready for these debates and this process, notably as we are opening a new chapter in expanding the european family.
the committee on foreign affairs and security is the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. president, commissioner, colleagues, we have already heard this today: europe is under pressure and our weight on the international stage is shrinking as great powers rise. if we want to be a player, we must act as one european bloc. a geopolitical europe is only possible if we reform our decision-making. this will be very necessary, especially with more than 30 member states. it's very clear to me: no expansion without deepening, without renewal. we need to abolish the unanimity rule. we must decide by a majority. the us secretary of state henry kissinger once asked: who should i call if i want to speak to europe? well, commissioner, that is still not so clear to foreigners. so let's finally work on: 1) a real minister of foreign affairs of the european union; 2) a european army with her on its teeth so we can act. only if we dare to reform the european union today will we be that geopolitical bloc. i am now counting on the member states to translate the excellent proposals of mr verhofstadt into a convention. it's now or never.
the committee on agriculture and rural development adopted a resolution on the proposal for a council regulation (eec) on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of certain agricultural products. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. there are many areas where changes to the treaties are necessary. this does not apply to the agricultural sector. i am of the opinion, as is the majority of my committee, that the objectives of the cap remain appropriate and important, as we have seen during the ongoing war in ukraine, the covid pandemic and also climate change and its impact on the food and energy sectors and the union economy as a whole. and they still play a strategic and fundamental role in agricultural production, rural development and european integration in general. and remember: the current objectives of the treaty are formulated in such a way that they have always allowed for fundamental reforms of the common agricultural policy. there is nothing that has prevented us from adding new objectives and measures to the agricultural policy reforms in line with the three sustainability aspects: environment, economy and social. the objectives of the cap are therefore still appropriate and more important than ever.
i'm not going to say. mr president, madam commissioner, in june 2022 our parliament called for a convention to be opened to reform our european treaties. today we are taking a crucial step with the vote on our proposals. more europe and better europe is what we want. this is what the citizens asked us at the conference on the future of europe. this is the end of unanimity in the council, this is a strengthened europe, this is a more reactive europe. because the challenges facing europe are many: enlargement, european defence, the protection of our democratic values, the eu's role in the world. this strong europe will not be achieved without united and enlightened citizens. we must give everyone the means to understand our history and institutions, and to resist nationalist misinformation, and this from an early age. how can we be europeans without knowing it? to do this, each citizen must have access to a minimum of european civic education in each member state and this calls for more shared competences in this field. it is a great step we are taking here with this request, and it is what i have always worked for.
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs delivered its opinion on the proposal for a council regulation (eec) on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the kingdom of norway on the conclusion of the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway on the one hand, and the republic of iceland, on the other. mr president, commissioner, spanish presidency, this 2019-2024 legislature started with great expectations: a conference on the future of europe that gathered here, in this same chamber, representatives from all strata of open societies, which draws the european union in its diversity. the european parliament has taken up these conclusions and has worked hard on them for two long years. and all the committees of this parliament have been involved, including the one i chair, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. and the result is eloquent (what will happen!): a reinforcement of the parliamentarisation of european policy and, consequently, the involvement of the commission presidency; a reinforcement of legislative initiative in the european parliament so that it is not indirect but direct; a reinforcement of social policies, and a reinforcement of equality and, particularly, of gender equality. and now, what's left? it is obvious that the council must finally transpose those conclusions in order to initiate the procedure for the reform of the treaties referred to in article 48 by means of a convention. i would add that without a treaty reform, the enlargement we are talking about is not only impossible, but also unthinkable and even unthinkable. the treaty reform is a precondition for the enlargement we are talking about.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, presidency, vice-president, first, i have to say that i would have liked that this process of drafting this report and annex would have been a bit more inclusive, because there are a lot of people that have different opinions on this issue. we were so careful taking into account the conference of the future of europe and then when we look at the members of this house, probably this was not such an open process. but i have to say that there was a huge improvement since the starting point till the text that we have now. and the text that we have now, i think that in a lot of matters, is quite balanced. it is one that it can be a starting point for negotiations because, of course, parliament has to have a position that is not the position of the council and to negotiate. so it is a constructive text, i would say, and all of us that on single issues have differences will probably with split and separate votes have an occasion to express our differences and to show to the public that even if they agree with the convention and with a new reform of european union that is needed because of the enlargement, but not only also to enhance our integration as such, i think that there will be room to the plurality of opinions that i think that were not heard at the beginning can now be clear on our decision. so i hope that this debate can also illuminate some colleagues in order to see the achievements that we have.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, the european union is not involved in world affairs. without reforms, it is likely to be permanently excluded from the negotiating table. except in international politics, if you're not sitting at the table, you're on the menu. so it's either hypocrisy or naivety or bad faith. the union is already struggling to function at 27. without reform, it would be completely paralyzed with 35 states, and there is even more urgency to say this in wartime in europe and the middle east. so no totem, and no taboo. the revision of the treaties is essential for a genuine foreign policy, for a common defence, for a stronger and more effective european democracy, for better protection of the rule of law, for a new investment policy, to name but a few priorities. we also want to put an end to the idea that public opinion would not be interested in these issues. citizens are not fooled. integrate ukraine and the balkans into the european union? yes, of course, for our peace and stability. but i said to the commission: who will pay for this? what will happen to the european funds for my farm and my region? and how will we finance the new common security, climate and innovation challenges at 35? in the enlarged union, there is no longer room for blackmail and veto. that is why we call on the council to decide now to launch a revision of the treaties in 2025. we will be able to debate this during the european elections and work on it during the new political cycle with a convention. reforming the union to unite the continent is the essence of our commitment.
on behalf of the greens/efa group. mr president, our sexual and reproductive rights must be a subject of european interest. the freedom to dispose of, protect and treat our bodies is a fundamental right which must be exercised and defended like all other european rights. to guarantee these rights and to move towards new freedoms, the immense work of civil society and political struggle do a lot. but some constitutional reforms are also needed. as a federalist, i want a functional and more democratic europe, and we want effective gender equality in all its dimensions. the european treaties are not distant, abstract texts that would concern only legal and technical experts. instead, let us make them powerful frameworks for empowerment and emancipation for all women, for gender minorities and for fighting discrimination. because dying of sepsis in a hospital bed with a stillborn fetus, surrounded by doctors who refuse to intervene, it should never have been possible, as it has been in poland for the past three years. and this must no longer be possible on the territory of the european union.
the answer to a question 'blue card'. certainly we can do this in matters which are the responsibility of the european union, because only together can we make the future history of this continent. think about it, otherwise we will completely leave, as the philosopher habermas says, the future history of the world. and the legitimate power of each of us comes from our citizens as well as that of the states. i agree with you that if we are to proceed with this reform process, the convention will also have to discuss how to respect the powers of national parliaments for those public goods which can only be provided at that level, and also those of regional parliaments and even municipal assemblies: in other words, everyone must be able to provide their citizens with public goods which can only be provided at that level, including the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must constantly ask ourselves questions and i must say that we will all be judged by our collective capacity to make quick, concrete and effective decisions. in this sense, the work done here is particularly valuable. our decision-making processes are limited to 27. we experience these limitations every day in our operation. and if the european union were to enlarge, it would also have to reform itself to invent a new, adapted functioning. and the end of the unanimity, my dear colleagues, will be the symbol of an integrated union that can bring about the emergence of a collective interest for the benefit of the continent and european citizens. it will be a union which, having spent a great deal of energy on its own, can act as a bloc to face the world's challenges unitedly.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, madam secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen, this year, more than any other year, our annual budgetary negotiations have shown that europe cannot adapt strongly to the challenges of the moment. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the use of the electricity sector. i would like to congratulate our rapporteur-general, mr mureşan, and our rapporteur for the institutions, mr ušakovs, on all the work they have done despite the constraints we face. we have been able to obtain a substantial increase in humanitarian aid for palestinian civilians, for health research, and for young farmers. i would like to say that the commission is not going to be able to do this. our support here will only be for the purpose of ensuring continuity of european programmes in 2024, because the real fight will have to be fought on the multiannual financial framework, the only political battlefield where we can raise substantial funds to end our critical dependencies, manage our borders and migration flows and, of course, help ukraine. i therefore call on the states to make as much progress as possible in their discussions on this crucial issue. we know that the discussions will be long, arduous, and will be filled with political obstacles and choices. so to overcome these difficulties we must look up, look where we want to lead europe and draw a clear line and a clear horizon. it's time to choose, it's time to turn our words into actions.
mr. president, what is this? budget 2024 is the budget that the european parliament is going to vote on, so it's good that it's on time. people expect us to reach an agreement and they pay us for it, not for the long-running disputes between institutions they don't understand. we are aware of the fact that the annual conciliation involves millions, because billions are already being laid up, hidden in national, agricultural and cohesion envelopes. but it is good that parliament's delegation has achieved some so-called top-ups in areas that reflect our priorities, namely erasmus, horizon, connecting europe and humanitarian aid. our rapporteur and the entire delegation have been faced with two strategies. both are risky. the first is an annual budget agreement without the imf's revision, knowing that it is not enough to finance all the needs of next year, because it was agreed before the pandemic and before russia's aggression on ukraine. the second is waiting for a revision, which is not easy to do, and thus risking the so-called provisional twelves. the delegation and siegfried mureşan chose less risk and it's good they did because the budget is on time.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, i want to see you. the 2024 budget is in a very specific atmosphere in its preparation, because on the one hand we have very difficult external conditions, because there is war and other conflicts, and on the other hand what we have been talking about for a long time, we definitely need to prepare a budget change, a revision of the multiannual budget. our rapporteur and the negotiating group of the european parliament were well aware that the 2024 annual budget cannot be fully implemented without a revision. we all knew that. the european parliament's approach was therefore not only very rational but also responsible, since it would be assumed that parliament would use the instrument of influence on the council, i.e. the instrument of disagreement on the annual budget, provided that there is a change in the multiannual budget. the european parliament, through its rapporteurs, our lead rapporteur and others, has clearly shown a responsible attitude. we agreed to an annual budget, knowing that we would have to change the multiannual budget anyway.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate all those who took part in the negotiating session of the day, and in particular mr siegfried mureşan, on his contribution which was a catalyst for the final agreement. nevertheless, we have managed to claim an increase in funding for our youth, the erasmus+ programme, young farmers, research, innovation, military cooperation, programmes to protect children, young people and women against all forms of violence, the daphne programme and the asylum, migration and integration fund. we have also managed to maintain the level of funding of the commission's investigation committee on the missing of cyprus, which is very important for one of the most sensitive issues of the cyprus invasion and occupation problem. finally, i would like to stress the great success of increasing the european union's humanitarian aid funding and of addressing the huge migrant problem.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much, and thank you for this debate. of course, i think we are all proud about the outcome. but, as it was said, it is imminent to have finally a proper mff review, which might feed as soon as possible into the 2024 budget. of course, there are some or the other issues which are not perfectly welcome, but i think the compromise is a good one. and at the end of the day, we have now the basis, at least at the beginning of the year, to face and to address challenges which we can expect or we cannot expect, because this is exactly the issue we are dealing with during a year where we are dealing with issues which have been foreseen and issues which are not foreseeable. this is why it was so important, again, to regain some flexibilities in the budget and i am grateful for all those who have supported this. i think this is also important for the negotiations on the mff revision. once again, thank you for what we have achieved, earlier than necessary, but i think it is a good message to the european citizens. they might not be aware about all the details, but they are aware there is a budget and this is something on which they can rely. next step, mff review, reinforced budget in order to meet all the challenges we are facing. and once again, thank you to all who have contributed to this excellent result.
president-in-office of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his comments. i am pleased to see that we are united in our commitment to build a better europe for the benefit of all our citizens. the agreement reached on the 2024 budget is a sensible commitment that allows the union to adequately finance its various priorities and fulfil its most immediate legal obligations. i thank you once again for your attention and we are awaiting your vote tomorrow.
president of the committee on budgets. the president, the colleagues, the secretary of state, the commissioner, all the speakers have now spoken. i thank them for their input and for this debate. the budget for 2024 is, as has often been said, the best possible under the current difficult circumstances. but of course, she would look completely different if we could start with a white leaf. the events around us force us to adjust. our member states are making serious and right adjustments to their priorities, and we will have to do so. i would therefore like to call for a taboo-free start to this exercise now and to look at what we are good at with the union, where we can add value, what we want and can do together, what our strengths are and what our member states are good at. we should not be afraid to break old habits and to reexamine expenditure seriously, even drastically. the european union is still too much budgetary dependent on past policy options that place a large mortgage on the future. at least it can't go on like we're doing now. the eu budget is too much tied to long-term planning, where new initiatives cannot be integrated and where we cannot adequately meet the expectations of our citizens. the european recovery plan in response to the covid pandemic will, i fear, not be a blueprint for a new and better policy. to make our economies more resilient, much more is needed. we must encourage, encourage and support our citizens and businesses to take the initiative. and we're not going to solve that by making all kinds of big plans from the top down. our citizens, our taxpayers expect us to manage their money like a good housewife. and they're looking at us, their representatives, first. i am therefore concerned that many initiatives taken in response to the changing events are repeatedly giving rise to ad hoc structures, where control and supervision cannot always be carried out in an adequate manner. the european court of auditors is also increasingly concerned with this problem. i hope that we can get more clarity on this in the coming days. i should like to thank the rapporteurs and all the staff. the agreement is a work in progress every year, and many people from different institutions, including the presidency, are committed to it.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 22 november 2023. (the sitting is adjourned for a short time.)
the next item is question time with the commission. we very much welcome the commissioner, who is coming straight from a trilogue, as i learned, into the plenary. so please, commissioner, take a breath – but not too long because we have precious time we would like to really use properly. we are starting right now our question time and, again, i repeat: just 1 minute for everybody, for all members speaking, 2 minutes for the commissioner, 30 seconds for follow-up questions and then the commissioner. and i start with our colleague from the european parliament, mr kubilius.
member of the commission. thank you for your question. first of all, i do not know what information you are based on to say that we are not producing what we have committed to produce. what i know is that the commitment i made in the field of munitions production is that in the spring we will have the capacity to produce one million munitions, essentially 155, 152 and of course with the willingness to supply them to ukraine. i repeat before this house that this commitment will be kept. there is also a commitment made by the member states to supply ammunition, first on their stocks and then by common purchases, between the time we build up the industrial base and when they are now in operation. they're the ones who have this information. we'll wait until spring to see what happens, but i can't take what you're saying for granted. you're asking an important question. why do we not have sufficient defence industrial capacity today? this is called the peace dividend. we kept our industrial tools, but we lowered our capabilities. and all the work i'm doing, in the responsibility that i've been given, is through asap to start being able to provide the means necessary to rapidly increase our ammunition capacity. and i'm telling you, in the spring, we'll have exceeded one million and by the end of this year, probably 1.3 million, 1.4 million. so we're moving.
member of the commission. i would like to say a few words to complete my reply. you are absolutely right: we must supply as much as we can of what we produce in ukraine. and today, the representative estimates, with its own information systems, that almost 40% of production in europe today goes abroad outside europe. the defence ministers of each member state must therefore ask, and very strongly ask, their defence companies to give priority to ukraine, at least for the coming months. i call on all the defence ministers in parliament to take action on their own defence industry so that we can prioritize it. and we see this with the increase in capacity, we have already increased our capacity by 20-30% since february, that if we prioritize our production for europe and for ukraine in the coming months, of course, the amount you mentioned at the beginning will be reached. so once again, each one has to take responsibility. for the rest of you, you're actually talking about drones. there's a lot of other things we could do. it is in a programme we have launched, a broader programme of reflection and awareness-raising that i have undertaken with the ministers of defence, with the member states and with parliament, on how we could, learning from what we have done on asap, extend to other defence sectors our capacity to increase our production, including in the areas you indicate, for example drones or other types of products, of everything we need, we in europe but also for ukraine.
the european union was exemplary at the beginning of the war of the russian invasion of ukraine. it has made its cultural revolution both by adopting sanctions, by sending military equipment to ukraine, and your own efforts have led to the implementation of the ammunition plan. i want to greet them here, but there's a flood of fire coming down on ukraine today. and while our goal is a million rounds by spring, russia got a million rounds from north korea between august and november. so we're far from the mark. i heard you say that's a question to ask the minister of defense. you confirm what josep borrell says about the fact that we are increasing production but it is not necessarily going to ukraine. so when and how will we finally have a priority of our production towards what is our strategic priority, namely helping ukraine win this war?
member of the commission. the commission has already proposed a priority and an asap. and you know that no one from the sanhedrin ever disobeyed him. so we're going to have to really think about all our future proposals, to be really very firm on this issue. i should like to add, in the light of what you have just said, that there is a need for prioritization, but there is also a need for the conclusion of contracts. we are not prepared to accept the proposal. they have the opportunity to do so and i repeat, we must not only sign contracts for their own national defence industry. we are globalising, building a true european defence market step by step. you don't have to contract only to your defence industry if you know that in a neighbouring country there is production capacity, you don't see enough of it. so i say today that the contracts that could be concluded will allow us to very much accelerate our capacity to deliver to ukraine. i think we should talk about it. i want to say that i was myself in the courtroom a few days ago. i've called the minister of defence. it's a necessity now. but if i may allow myself, we see what is happening, we see the rapid increase in production, and strongly from what i see, if this political will and discipline prevails, of course we can keep our commitments to deal with what you have called a flood of fire. i read in the press and you saw these figures, we often say 1 to 5 on either side of the front line in donbass. we must continue to provide everything ukraine needs in this war, which we are engaged in.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the use of nuclear weapons.
member of the commission. i have no specific information at my level to share with you tonight on this matter. what i can tell you is that in the visits i made to some 15 member states to learn about our entire industrial base, and in the discussions i was able to have, i could see that some important key elements of the value chain were purchased by american industries and industrialists. at least that's what i was told when i was on the field.
member of the commission. yes, then perhaps a small point: i only referred to the fact that as regards the discussions we had in the defence council and in particular the positions of the councils on the asap programme, we had asked for a priority and this was not taken up by the council. it's only for the asap program, for the ammunition. i wanted to correct him. i would just like to recall some figures, however, the european union's military support to ukraine is massive. today, almost eur 27 billion of equipment, ammunition and equipment have been transferred, including eur 14 billion for the peace facility alone. but we know, and i want to say, that we know everything in europe about arms, and we have kept this knowledge in every field. we know how to make aircraft carriers, nuclear carriers, hypersonic missiles, tanks, we know how to make the most advanced fighter planes in the world. we can do anything. but we need to increase our industrial database because it is indeed necessary today, of course, compared to what we can provide for ukraine, but also for ourselves. because i remind you, for all the member states and the overwhelming majority of them are nato members, nato allies we have this obligation, this commitment that has been made, to spend 2% of gdp per member state on defence. we're a long way from that. so if we raise all the commitments that have been made to 2%, which is a necessity, then an additional 140 billion euros a year will be invested in defence, and all our work is to make sure that the european defence industries are increasing their production capacity to meet a very important logic: to produce more, to produce faster and to be ready all the time. that's all the work we do.
member of the commission. this is an important subject in itself, we know, and perhaps you are also referring to the use that was made, at one time, of an american constellation which provided precisely its electronic capabilities. in any case, this is a very different matter from the issue of ammunition, which you are questioning me about today. i repeat, the demands of ukraine are high. and when they come to us from the member states, we try to deal with them as best we can in all the categories concerned, including those you have just mentioned.
my question is going in the same direction. it is extremely disappointing, however, that the european union is unable to meet its commitments. i have a question for the commissioner: before we threw this beautiful number, a million rounds of ammunition, units of ammunition, did anyone check if we were capable of doing it? and you're talking about your visit, you've been to munitions factories in many countries. and now the fundamental question is, is our industry so weak that it cannot produce it and we cannot help ukraine effectively, or are there other reasons for this?
member of the commission. i have said this before, mr president, i do not know what you are using to say that we are not keeping our commitments. i don't have them. the commitments are in the spring. it's still early in the winter. i visited all the production sites myself, one by one. and it was from this visit that i was able to make a commitment on behalf of the commission that in the spring we will have the capacity to produce more than 1 million munitions a year at european sites. if all this production is to come, then all that has already been given (more than 300 000 and there are still 180 000 in the pipeline) is allocated to ukraine, especially in stocks. of course, the capacity is there. if, in the spring, we are going to have more than a million, if all this production is going to ukraine, because we are putting discipline in place and the defense ministers in poland, germany, france, italy, bulgaria and romania are putting pressure on their defense industries, then yes, of course, the answer is yes, mr president. before i made the commitment to increase production capacity by over 1 million a year in europe, i went around and it was this tour and this knowledge that made me make this commitment and that will keep it.
yes, but from what the commissioner says, it seems that the barriers are political. what about psychological? because it's not about ability. psychological, because we all know that some countries still have a pacifist spirit. what about politics? perhaps some people don't really want to support ukraine in this counter-offensive that ukraine is currently conducting.
member of the commission. once again, the problem is not the capacity but the contractual nature. we need to make a deal. i am not the one who can do it, we are not the ones who can do it, it is the member states who can do it. and secondly, it's prioritization. it is necessary, once again, for some time, that this capacity (there may be trade commitments that are being made, but they may be discussed again) be transferred to ukraine. it is not for me to say why the member states do or do not do this. what i can tell you, as the defence industry officer at the commission, is that the capacity is there, and it will increase. we will be at 1.3 million, perhaps 1.4 million production capacity by the end of the year. so you see that if this capacity is a priority for ukraine because i share your feeling, i think it is our responsibility, it is an absolute urgency and it is something that all the member states must do because this war, i said before, it involves us, but everyone must take responsibility.
member of the commission. i would like to hear your question, mr president, although it is a little bit further from the subject which we were going to be dealing with tonight, namely, madam president, the issue of munitions. but i hear your question. so, of course, i don't have all the information to answer it, you can imagine, but i, like you, see the incredible reaction of the ukrainian people. it is true that ukraine is a country with three times less population than russia. it is not ten times less either, it is three times less, but despite all this ukraine has been able to resist this aggression heroically, this terrible, illegal aggression, which was wanted by vladimir putin to invade a free country, like this, because he felt he wanted to do it. ukraine has resisted and has been resisting for months now. and if it is resisting, it is because its soldiers, its troops, its army are brave, it is heroic, but also because the ammunition it needs, the weapons it needs, well, they are provided not only by the european union of the rest, but by a very large number of allies who have decided to provide ukraine with what it needed to fight. i could see, as you all did, from reading the newspapers not later than this morning, that the ukrainian armies were continuing to retake the land that had been stolen from them.
before i give you the opportunity to ask a follow-up question, i simply would like to remind you that we have a topic, and it really is a debate that’s focused on a topic. so please stick to that.
member of the commission. i have no recent information on your question.
madam president, commissioner, this is a very interesting debate. let me ask you one more question. analysts often state that one reason why european armaments do not want to export such a large amount of ammunition to ukraine is their trade policy. they have their customers. he's afraid that ukraine is not a long-term market. i therefore ask whether the commission is not considering another package of incentives for european arms manufacturers to make it more economically attractive for these companies to supply ammunition to ukraine. we're not a regulated economy like russia. we don't have a war production here where russian president putin decides and production is directed at bullets. we need to make a deal with the manufacturer. so, is there an alternative to increasing the attractiveness of arms exports and especially ammunition to ukraine?
member of the commission. the asap programme, which i am dealing with and which, i recall, was designed and voted on by the co-legislators (including the european parliament) in record time, is designed to increase the industrial base of all industries supplying all the components but also the shells themselves. i'll give you some information about this program. we launched a call for applications on 18 october, which ends on 13 december. we have identified 70 projects in the preliminary phase, and we think we will count between 20 and 25. the criteria we are going to use are actually what you are saying, that is, that all companies that will prioritize, including their current production, will be favored for ukraine. this will be one of the incentive criteria, in relation to what you wish, to actually ensure that this effort is given priority to ukraine. to be a little more precise, we have planned to support the explosive sector at €190 million, the propulsive sector at €144 million, the bus sector at €90 million, and the missiles at €40 million, and finally an envelope for reconditioning. so all of this is in place today, and that's why we're confident in our ability to significantly increase our base of deployment and industrial development in munitions production to 1.3 to 1.4 million by the end of 2024.
madam president, commissioner, thank you for being here today for discussing a very urgent matter, such as the capacity to provide ukraine with the ammunition it needs to defend itself. i believe it is paramount that we keep up with our promises, also in light of the fact that other countries, such as north korea, have already supported the replenishment of the russian stockpiles consistently. at the same time, the possibility to achieve our goal came under question, as we have only provided 30% of the pledges. while it is true that our production capacity has increased by around 30% in the latest month, there is still a gap to close. some analysts pointed out that one of the main problems is linked to the difficulties encountered by defence industries in accessing credit from european banks, since their products have been declared unsustainable by the european taxonomy. while, on the one hand, we are equipping ourselves with complementary funds for the scale-up of defence-related production, with edirpa and asap, on the other, we are somehow obstructing the production cycle of these products. how can we combine the need for more sustainable economic and production models with the one of reinforcing our defence capabilities?
member of the commission. mr president, it is clear that during my field visits to the entire european industrial base i was able to see that almost all the sites exist. so i would say that there is no need for additional permissions to create new sites. it is known that these production sites require special precautions, given the hazardous nature of the products produced there, including in relation to the environment. the interest is that we have preserved almost the entire industrial base and that additional capacity can be developed very quickly, since once again the permits you referred to have already been granted for almost all of these sites, including, for the rest, in italy. in asap we also put in a small envelope, i did not mention before, of eur 30 million (called a ramp-up fund), i.e. a fund to provide loans with a premium to enable the defence industry to receive the necessary financing. and then, you know, you've heard me say many times, the eib, the european investment bank, must now be mobilized to be able to provide these loans that we need. it is all these packages that make me confident about our ability to achieve and exceed the objectives i have set before you in terms of industrial production capacity for shells and defence products.
thank you very much, commissioner, for all your answers and for participating, and of course thanks to everybody who took part in question time. that concludes question time.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the continuing threat to the rule of law, the independence of justice and the non-fulfilment of conditionality for eu funding in hungary (2023/2985(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. the commissioner has said that the commission is not going to be able to take any further action to prevent the spread of the disease. the rule of law is an indispensable requirement for the proper functioning of the union and its internal market and for the implementation and protection of the union budget. for this reason, the council is determined, like parliament, to ensure respect for the values of the european union and the protection of its budget. the union has the necessary instruments and procedures to do so and it is important that all the institutions of the european union and also all the member states use them constructively in a spirit of open dialogue with the member state concerned. as regards the procedure referred to in article 7 (1) with regard to hungary, our presidency has continued its work in the council, maintaining an open and constructive dialogue with hungary. last week the general affairs council proceeded to change its views on the state of the work in this field. the commission provided the ministers with up-to-date information on progress made in the areas of judicial independence and the fight against corruption since the last hearing in hungary on 30 may 2023, and also highlighted the serious doubts that remain in relation to other areas. i have no doubt that the commissioner will provide further details on the latest assessment. hungary submitted updated data on progress made in the context of the conditionality regulation since the last hearing and noted that talks with the commission are ongoing. the council remains committed to this procedure and will continue to perform its role over the coming semesters. from a budgetary point of view and emphasising the links with the rule of law, it should be recalled that the council adopted on 5 december 2022 the implementing decision on the approval of the assessment of the recovery and resilience plan of hungary under the recovery and resilience mechanism. the total amount of the plan is eur 5.8 billion. the council's implementing decision sets out a wide range of key institutional reforms that hungary must implement before the commission can authorise any payments under the mechanism. these reforms are in line with the country-specific recommendations on the rule of law and also serve to protect the union's financial interests. hungary has not yet submitted any payment request. we also note that hungary has taken legislative measures to implement some of the reforms required, which we welcome. moreover, on 15 december 2022, the council adopted, for the first time in history, an implementing decision on measures to protect the union budget against the breach of the principles of the rule of law in hungary under the conditionality regulation. the council did not hesitate to use this mechanism for the first time. in particular, the council adopted two specific measures. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the implementation of the programme. the commission also considered that the measures provided for in article 107 (1) tfeu are in line with the principle of proportionality. both measures remain applicable to hungary. we understand that the hungarian authorities continue to work closely with the commission to resolve the situation and find the appropriate remedies and measures. it is now for the commission to reassess, on this basis, the situation in hungary at the latest one year after the council adopts the measures, i.e. by 15 december this year. we expect to receive the commission's new assessment in the coming weeks. the council will then proceed without delay to assess the situation and decide whether to carry out a possible review of the implementing decision should the commission submit a new proposal on the measures currently applied to hungary. as regards horizontal favourable conditions, under the common provisions regulation, it is for the commission alone to assess and verify compliance with those conditions before any funds are disbursed. let me conclude by saying that the council will continue to act promptly and responsibly to protect the budget of the european union and the financial interests of the union. we are also fully aware of the crucial role of the commission, as i have just mentioned.
member of the commission. the commission is working on a number of instruments to address the rule of law in hungary. in addition to the annual report on the rule of law and procedure under article 7 to the council, the commission is currently assessing the situation in hungary through three parallel procedures: the implementation of the hungarian recovery and resilience plan, the horizontal condition for compliance with the charter of fundamental rights of the union in the context of cohesion policy, and budgetary conditionality. some of the questions raised in these three procedures are also covered by the parliament's proposal which initiated the article 7 procedure. the implementation of the judicial and anti-corruption reforms required under these procedures is underway. on 1 june, a new law came into force in hungary aimed at addressing the justice-related recommendations of the 2022 rule of law report, reflecting some of the concerns also expressed under the article 7 procedure. let me point out key elements of this reform. a strengthened role for the national judicial council will allow it to counterbalance the powers of the president of the national office for the judiciary, also with regard to the careers of judges. the new rules on the supreme court will contribute to the transparency of its functioning and will reduce the possibility of political interference. for example, members of the constitutional court can no longer be appointed to the supreme court without following the normal appointment procedure. moreover, the supreme court will no longer be able to review the necessity of parliamentary references in criminal proceedings in line with eu law requirements. so, honourable members, the judicial reform that i just described aims at addressing 4 of the 27 great milestones included in hungary's recovery and resilience plan those relating to judicial independence. and it is also relevant with regard to the horizontal enabling conditions on the charter. let me now turn to this horizontal enabling condition. in its decisions adopting the common provisions regulation programmes, the commission departed from hungary's self-assessment and considered that the horizontal enabling condition of the charter was not met, inter alia, because of concerns related to judicial independence. other concerns related to lgbtiq+ and the so-called child protection law, academic freedom and the right to asylum. as regards judicial independence, the commission's decisions made it clear that the horizontal enabling condition of the charter will be considered fulfilled once hungary has implemented and applied a number of measures specified in those decisions. these are the same measures included in the four super milestones in the countrys recovery and resilience plan. under the common provisions regulation, the commission cannot reimburse any expenditure until the judicial independence part of the horizontal enabling condition of the charter is considered fulfilled apart from technical assistance. moreover, expenditure for specific objectives affected by other deficiencies related to the horizontal enabling condition of the charter will not be reimbursed, until those deficiencies are also addressed. on 18 july hungary submitted a new self-assessment on its fulfilment of the horizontal enabling condition of the charter. this new self-assessment concerns only the judicial independence dimension. according to the legal framework, the commission has three months to assess this self-assessment. the commission raised questions during this period because hungary's self-assessment left some points open. these questions suspend the three-month deadline. the new hungarian law of 1 june is an important step in the right direction. however, it is not the end of the process. hungary also needs to complete the accompanying implementation steps. while a lot has already been done, a few points remain open. that is why on 1 november commissioner schmit and i sent a letter to hungary seeking further clarification. again, these questions suspended the three-month deadline for a decision to be taken. since then, i have continued to have a constructive dialogue with the hungarian government and they appear committed to providing those clarifications. in conclusion, let me assure you that we are not taking these issues lightly and that we are carrying out an objective analysis. we are committed and continue the discussion with hungary to ensure that all necessary reforms are done. if you allow me, madam president, i will now perhaps hand over to my colleague, johannes, who will provide further information on the general regime of conditionality perhaps.
member of the commission. – madam president, we last spoke in plenary in spring and, honestly, i would have loved to have more and earlier information for you, but, as you know, so far, hungary has not submitted a notification under the conditionality regulation. your commitment to this dossier in a constructive dialogue matters. it helps us enforce the conditionality regulation. this is of fundamental importance, as the protection of the union budget is the direct interest of all europeans. as you know, last december, the council adopted its implementing decision on measures for the protection of the union budget from breaches of the principle of the rule of law in hungary. the council decided to suspend 55% of the budgetary commitment of the funds for three operational programmes in cohesion policy. this corresponds to an amount of approximately eur 6.3 billion in total for the current mff period. the council also prohibited entering into any new legal commitments with public interest trusts or entities maintained by them under any union programme directly or indirectly managed by the commission, due to underdressed risks of conflict of interests for those who sit on the boards of such entities. just like didier explained for the judicial independence matters, the above conditionality issues have equally been mirrored as super milestones under the recovery and resilience programme, in agreement with hungary. looking back, hungary did propose remedial measures in the course of the procedure. i would like to underline that there has already been some valuable change in hungary. for example, there is now an active integrity authority, there are now ways of challenging a prosecutor’s decision not to pursue a case, and olaf now has reinforced cooperation structures in hungary. as you know, in december last year, those remedial measures were not fully or correctly implemented at the time of the council implementing decision. this is still the case today and the measures taken so far are not enough. also, hungary has not formally notified any measures to resolve this conditionality case. since our last encounter on 31 may, hungary has made progress to find and design draft solutions to address some of the weaknesses identified in the council implementing decision. this remained to be adopted and implemented in practice, for example, by an amending legislation where necessary. the dialogue with hungary is particularly intense on issues regarding the prevention of risks of conflict of interest in the boards of public interest trusts, and the extent of the powers of the newly created integrity authority. let me stress that the commission continues to thoroughly assess the situation and the remedies proposed and implemented by hungary in the light of the issues identified under the council implementing decision and according to the conditions set by the conditionality regulation. in any event, the commission has an obligation to reassess, on its own motion, the situation within one year from the council implementing decision of 15 december 2022. therefore, at the latest on 15 december 2023, the commission will formally adopt an updated assessment of the situation. the procedure for the lifting of measures is clearly set out in the conditionality regulation. if hungary formally submits a written notification to request that measures be lifted, the commission has one month to decide whether to propose to the council to adopt or lift the measures. that depends on whether hungary has remedied, in part or in full, the situation that led to the adoption of measures in the first place. following the proposal from the commission, the council has one month to decide. both these deadlines can be extended in specific circumstances. so far, this is what i can report at this stage.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i was very concerned after reading reports last month about how the commission was preparing to release funding to hungary in exchange for orbán’s support for assistance to ukraine. i was shocked, frankly, because the rule of law principles are not for sale. they are non-negotiable and they cannot serve as a bargaining chip. everyone here should be crystal clear about that. abusing a veto for blackmail is a cynical and a shameful practice that should be abolished, not rewarded. ukraine needs our help and ukraine must get our help, and the eu must find ways to get that aid to ukraine without rewarding the dismantling of the rule of law, and hungary. because it would be cynical if, in trying to help ukrainians fighting for freedom and democracy and the rule of law, the european union would actually turn a blind eye to the attack on those very same values at home. it’s clear that hungary has not made effective or sufficient progress towards fulfilling the conditions on judicial independence. in fact, the hungarian government seems to be putting more efforts into sabotaging and derailing the reforms than into implementing them. this is pretty much true for all announced reforms and milestones. it’s a very sad situation, because we want this money to reach the hungarian people – the sooner, the better. i also want to make it very clear to the hungarian citizens that there’s only one person responsible for these funds being blocked, and that is viktor orbán himself. so, we welcome the commitment of commissioner hahn, in his letter, and confirmed by both commissioners today, that the european commission cannot reimburse expenditure as long as the horizontal enabling conditions are not fulfilled; that further action is needed before measures under the rule of law conditionality regulation can be lifted; and that no payment under the rrf is possible until hungary has implemented all milestones. for the epp, and this is our key message to both the commission and to viktor orbán today, only significant, tangible and lasting reform can enable the release of taxpayers’ money. nothing less will do.
on behalf of the s&d group. president. - the next item is the report (doc. the green deal, sanctions against russia, minimum wage. but unfortunately, the hungarians have no guarantee that prime minister orbán will abide by it. don't make concessions as long as orbán continues to suppress queer communities, women, minorities. not as long as he enriches himself with european funds instead of helping all hungarians move forward. not as long as elections are unfair. i am very concerned that the commission is discussing commitments on the hungarian recovery plan and repowereu and is even considering an advance. my question is: - is that right? - yes. - do it now. - it is. - no, i'm not. i can already hear orbán shouting victory. the eu as a pinnacle machine while he keeps taunting putin. i am also too much reminded of mrs von der leyen, who was already in warsaw with the money before parliament intervened. the democratic rule of law is the foundation of a free europe. only if we are sure that hungarians are included can we get money back to budapest.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, commissioners, minister, i’m getting a little bit tired of this debate. it’s not the first time. no, no, no! you’re cheering for the wrong reasons there, okay? i’m getting a little bit tired because i think we all agree here – with the exception of you there in the back – that not a penny should go to the hungarian government. and i don’t want to have this debate, because every time we get rumours in the media about the commission maybe negotiating. i don’t want to have this debate anymore. it is very obvious that not only does the orbán government not meet the criteria – he actually doesn’t want to meet the criteria. so why are we having this debate? i think i want to hear the european commission, in particular commissioner hahn, say ‘this is very clear to us’. we are not going to pay a penny to orbán – because this is not to the hungarian people, this is to orbán and that is the problem here – until he has fully met all the criteria. and i would also like to get a bit more clarity about how the commission assesses the criteria. because how do you negotiate rule-of-law criteria? this is a mystery to me. you know, either you respect the rule of law or you don’t. and the point is that, okay, now i think orbán himself has given up. i don’t think he expects to get any more money from brussels. but there are others: fico, who has just been re-elected in slovakia. but i can think of some other countries which are very problematic. greece: i am getting very, very worried about greece, and i think we should be discussing conditionality here. spain: whatever. you have a long list, apparently. very good. but i think if you now give the signal to orbán that we are willing to negotiate, that we can buy off your veto, you’re giving that signal to other countries, too. so i want some clarity here today about the criteria and how they are being assessed.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, european funds for hungary were frozen because of concerns about whether this money was reaching its legitimate beneficiaries – hungarian citizens. years of misuse of this money had shown us that most of the time, it landed in the pockets of oligarchs and helped enrich orbán’s friends and close relatives. this has ultimately dramatically reinforced the powers of this new autocrat. there is little reason to think the outcome would be different today. it seems the right boxes have been ticked on the right forms, yes, indeed, but no implementation. and we are facing a lot of opacity about the dialogue between the commission and the hungarian government. but above all, one major problem remains the allocation of cases in the judiciary. through all of these years, the very rare cases of political and corruption trials would land in the hands of judges close to the regime, always the very same judges with a very mysterious but very convenient allocation system. to have serious restoration of the rule of law in hungary, the allocation of political corruption cases is what needs to be addressed first. but now i want to be very clear on one thing where i feel that we have been misleading stakeholders, ambassadors and citizens. cutting eu funds to hungary means protecting our money and it is good. but it will not resolve the systemic rule of law collapse in the country. for this to happen, we need political will and courage coming from the council. it is a straightforward democratic political process that is clearly written in our rules and treaties: recommendations, sanctions and the withdrawal of voting rights. when viktor orbán no longer has voting rights in the name of hungary, then he will also no longer be able to use his people and his nation as a leverage for his own benefit. for a few days now, new billboards are depicting ursula von der leyen and the commission as new scapegoats and advertising on an upcoming anti-eu referendum in hungary. this national consultation named on the defence of our sovereignty as 11 questions, all of them concerning brussels. full of lies and misperception. it declares that brussels wants to create migrant ghettos in hungary, financial support from brussels to palestinian organisation has also reached hamas, and it finishes with this: they – they being us, of course – want to influence hungarian politics using money from brussels and overseas. how are we letting this happen?
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr commissioner, a few hundred kilometres above us are our european satellites, satellites indispensable to our farmers, our firefighters and each one of us, so that we can track ourselves with our smartphones. but until now europe had been too naive and had not considered all the risks, including those of hostile powers. with this resolution, we call for a more serious defence of our interests in space. if i were to choose three key messages from our resolution, they would be as follows. firstly, it is essential to know better what is happening above our heads, by producing more european monitoring and tracking data, with dedicated european funding. secondly, the lack of autonomous access to space is a major problem. it is time for the commission to propose a genuine european launch strategy, with eu funding for european space ports. and third, europe needs to adopt rapidly a european space law that can serve as an example for space traffic management. now, in order to implement all these priorities, the problem is the european budget. i am counting on the states to put resources into the next european financial framework and to ensure that this desire for a less naive europe in space does not remain a godly one.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this morning we are giving a first wave of relief after the announcement of a truce and the release of dozens of hostages. i am naturally thinking of families who will be reunited with their loved ones, those who have not yet had the chance and for whom we must continue to do everything we can to secure their release. i also think of the people of gaza who will be protected from bombs for a few days, but who know that their ordeal will soon resume. the human record is getting worse every day and the european union has become complicit in this massacre by refusing to condemn it. yes, you killed 14,000 civilians, including more than 5,000 children. you let the idf deliberately destroy hospitals, homes, schools. you have not said anything about these crimes but you are constantly opposed to the ceasefire because the truce cannot be a simple bracelet, a lasting ceasefire is needed. what would you say, dear colleagues, to the thousands of parents who have lost their children? that it's collateral damage? why is there no punishment yet in mind against israel? we are right about the 12th package of sanctions against russia, but how are you going to explain that we are doing nothing about the war crimes of the israeli army in gaza? this 'two-weight, two-measure' is unbearable and has concrete consequences in gaza, but also in the west bank, where we speak too little, where colonization is increasing increasingly brutal. the israelite settlers have no more limits. every day, palestinians are insulted, threatened, brutalised, murdered, driven from their land. we're witnessing a ethnic cleansing. it is a moral duty to stop it because every palestinian life counts. it is a diplomatic obligation because peace will only emerge with a two-state solution. this is a strategic imperative because what is happening in the middle east will have global consequences. we are at a turning point today, colleagues. if the european union persists in its blindness, it will not only cover itself with shame, but it will also permanently bury international law and with it the hope of lasting peace.
mr president, in our 27 capitals, in washington and in all the arab league countries, we are talking about only two israeli and palestinian states. many people do not want to believe this, but palestine will certainly stand with the state of israel for the simple and right reason that there is no other solution to this 100-year war. but who will, they say, drive out the 500,000 settlers? well, a minority will try to resist in vain, most will return to israel and some will become foreign residents in that new state. that's not the problem. the real problem is that reason no longer has enough defenders, on either side. and that is why peace, a just and lasting peace, must be imposed from the outside, as the un had done for the 47th. our union will play a fundamental role in this, and rather than arguing about the words 'true' or 'ceasefire', our parliament must now, urgently, prepare itself fully for this.
mr president, today there is a ray of hope with the release of israeli hostages and a four-day ceasefire. but we all know that this is clearly insufficient. what is happening in gaza is terrible: gaza today is a pit with over 16,000 bodies, and i want to say that we are not doing everything we need to to to prevent this humanitarian catastrophe. the european union would not allow any other country to violate the basic rules of international law, the protection of civilians, the protection of humanitarian personnel, the protection of the press, the prohibition of attacks on hospitals... international humanitarian law and its enforcement are what separate democratic countries from autocratic regimes and terrorist organizations. our double standard of defence of human rights, of international law, in this conflict is intolerable. and we're going to get a bill. it will take account of the necessary role that the european union has to play in the peace solution, which is nothing but the two-state solution.
mr president, first of all, i thank mr borrell for the high standards you have set in the last few weeks in the face of the cacophony and irresponsibility. we've had two new ones since yesterday. the possible humanitarian truce with the release of the hostages. this is good news and a permanent and lasting ceasefire must be encouraged. and proof that we never funded hamas. commissioner várhelyi, who has cast the reproach on the european union and the administration and has endangered european staff, must leave and it is the honour of the european union. we are only heard in the world when we are peacemakers, promoters of stability, guardians of international law, promoters of human rights. that's our job! let us therefore demand all of this! and we have the means to do that, we are israel's first economic and trade partner, the first financier of the palestinian authority. we can weigh, we have tools. we must activate the regime to sanction those who violate human rights and we must demand a lasting peaceful solution. two states is the only condition for stability in the world.
mr president, today the whole middle east is being held hostage. i am thinking of the 240 hostages held by hamas. all the men, all the women, all the children, all go home. i'm thinking about the two million gazans. they too were taken hostage by hamas. we europeans are concerned about their fate and we are the first to help the palestinians. hamas is building tunnels, not schools. he buys guns, not drugs. it's not serving the palestinian cause, it's serving to enrich and feed its crazy, anti-semitic and islamist project. and i think of peace, that peace that the oslo accords were the outline of and whose artisans died. arafat is no longer, and in palestine, who has his courage, the true courage of peace? rabin was murdered. today, israeli extremists are encouraging settlers to take on the palestinians in the west bank. they have no future for gaza except destruction. they betrayed rabin and took peace hostage. we europeans know what islamist terrorism is and we stand in solidarity with the israeli people. we europeans know what the suffering of the palestinian people is. and i want to thank you, josep borrell and janez lenarčič, for your courageous positions and tireless action. you're an honor to us. peace, it is the israelis and the palestinians of good will who will have to build it together... (the president withdraws the speaker)
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen. i would like to thank the prime minister for his very pro-european speech. the commission has also been able to take a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used to finance the implementation of the budget. that is the subject of my speech today. this wind, it is european, as i said, it is progressive. it is above all welcome and it is this new energy that makes bulgaria a strong european ally, particularly in the concrete support of ukraine in the face of the russian aggressor. my european political family supports this political orientation and change. i would like to take the opportunity to welcome the spirit of responsibility of your party, which has also led to the formation of a coalition despite the differences, which has so far been seen as being in the interests of the country, especially of europe. there has often been a form of fatalism in these institutions about some of bulgaria's difficulties in the bloc in the fight against corruption, in the fight against global warming or in the unity of the continent from an international point of view. but i must say, the reforms of your government, your predecessor, have silenced many critics. today we are working together, with a common vision, a european vision, that of a green europe, that of an innovative europe, that of a europe in solidarity with ukraine, that of a sovereign europe, that of a europe based on the rule of law. and in this europe of tomorrow, bulgaria has its place. it is a key position, particularly in the context of enlargement in the western balkans. you know that in my group we have members who are very invested in this subject, but we also have european officials who have a role to play. and it is time for bulgaria, together with its romanian neighbour, to enter the schengen area. we cannot disappoint the hopes of the bulgarians and i also call on my epp colleagues. mr. speaker, as you know, we have done our part on renew. we have convinced our allies to take this decision to support the bulgarians in the schengen area and the epp should be able to convince its allies as well, and i think of the austrians in particular who still today lead this opposition in principle. mr prime minister, with renew europe, you always have this path, you always have an ally and we will support you in this effort.
prime minister of bulgaria mr. president, mr. chairman, mr. chairman of committees, mr. members of the european parliament, i will try to answer the main questions within five minutes, starting with the fact that the formation, the formation of the coalition that currently governs bulgaria was the only possible pro-european opportunity to form a government that could create stability in the country. and i want to thank mrs. maria gabriel in particular, who is here with me today, with whom we go to meetings together to convince all who have doubts that we can, are ready and work together for the european development of bulgaria. in this respect, i am really disappointed that some of the bulgarian meps today did not support these efforts in the debate, but tried again to create some kind of division which is absolutely useless. bulgaria is a pro-european country and our administration will work for the european development of bulgaria. i thank you for your comments that, in addition to the conservative and liberal values, we can and should add the social democratic ones and those of the green parties where we can find a common solution for the development of europe in directions that will bring prosperity, prosperity and tranquility to the european citizens. no one has the right to claim that he alone can find a solution, so yes, we must join forces where we find common solutions and work together to ensure that europe's development in the years ahead is ensured. mr jambazki asked me what the european union can do for bulgaria and why i have abandoned the thesis that we should expect such a development. the answer is simple, because very often the interests are not opposites, the interests are mutual. what we can do together is the best that can help bulgaria's development. and that is why it is important that bulgaria is fully integrated into european structures, in the schengen area, in the euro area, because when decisions are made for the development of europe, they must be in line with the interests of bulgaria and there is no contradiction in that. as for the issues related to the russian oil company, i want to say absolutely categorically from this forum: bulgaria has never, during our administration, and i have no information about it before, violated european regulations, nor has it violated laws, nor has the company lukoil violated those regulations and laws regarding the processing and export of oil and petroleum products. so any speculation and any rumors in this spirit must be refuted and will be refuted by facts. i've checked them and there are no such violations. as regards investors, i want to assure everyone that the progress bulgaria has made in recent months in terms of the rule of law is already yielding results. in addition to the removal of the monitoring of the judicial system of bulgaria, in addition to the first place in bulgaria for the fastest progress in its judicial system, the increase in foreign direct investors in bulgaria for this year is more than 50% 50% more foreign direct investors in bulgaria. so this is a clear sign that the efforts of the bulgarian government are understood and supported. and finally, is there any cooperation with romania? of course, every prime minister, every president can use different means of expression, but we and romania are convinced together that we must work together to develop the entire region of the balkan peninsula. we've initiated trilateral meetings. we started working on programs that aim to develop all the infrastructure from greece to bulgaria to romania to moldova to ukraine, and that's why we're working together. this is of course part of the pan-european effort to develop the balkans. and finally i'm going to finish with north macedonia. unlike many of you, i remember very well our relations with north macedonia in the 1990s, when everything seemed to be going very well. we were the first country in the world to recognize north macedonia as an independent european country. unfortunately, over the years our relations have deteriorated and i don't think bulgaria is to blame for that. i therefore want to make it clear that at the moment bulgaria has no other requirements for north macedonia than those laid down in the european union's decision last year. there are no bilateral relations today between bulgaria and north macedonia, there are relations between north macedonia and the european union. they must be implemented by north macedonia in order to open the negotiation process. and in that regard i do not accept any criticism of our country today. - thank you. - thank you.
thank you very much, prime minister denkov. thank you for this very good debate. the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details concerning the vote: see minutes) mr dzhambazki, do you have a point of order to do with the votes?
madam president, yes, it is a point of order, if i may. i would like to ask you to postpone wiener report, ‘sustainable use of plant protection products’, under rule 200.
ok, we will take that before the vote according to rule 200. now we move to the votes.
president. – congratulations to the rapporteurs. the joint text agreed by the conciliation committee on 11 november 2023 has been approved by both parliament and the council. the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2024 can thus be deemed to have been completed. the union’s general budget for the financial year 2024 is definitively adopted, and i will now sign the budget. (the president of parliament signed the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2024.)
we move now to the point of order by mr dzhambazki because it is just before the vote on the wiener report.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, dear colleagues, i would like to postpone this vote under rule 200.
i understand you are doing this on behalf of your political group, mr dzhambazki, and therefore we will put the proposal to a vote. (parliament rejected the ecr group’s proposal)is there another point of order?
since you make it on behalf of the group, just to warn the other groups that there will be a recorded vote on that point, but i will alert well enough in advance.
thank you for a very difficult vote. i can understand that many members have some doubts about the future, therefore i would like to refer it back for interinstitutional negotiations in accordance with rule 59(4).
that concludes the vote. thank you, colleagues, for your constructive work! (the sitting was briefly suspended.)
the minutes and the texts adopted of yesterday’s sitting are available. are there any comments? as that is not the case, the minutes are approved.
the next item is the topical debate under rule 162 on reducing the regulatory burden to unleash entrepreneurship and competitiveness. i would inform members that for this debate there is no catch-the-eye procedure and no blue cards will be accepted.
i'm a writer. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of certain products. the european commission only published a new economic forecast last week, which has been rather bleak. the commission itself has given this autumn forecast a striking title: a modest recovery after a difficult year. i think this is a good summary of our economic situation in this european union. but we shouldn 't pretend to be . these weak growth prospects are not only due to a downturn in the economy or to high energy prices. if you take that as a pattern of explanation, you're making it too simple. we have a structural problem, which is due to the fact that the competitiveness and productivity growth of the european economy has been steadily deteriorating over the past few years. if the largest economy in the european union the economy of the country from which i come has only a growth potential of 0.4% in the medium term, then i think this is a clear indication that there is something wrong here. the problems are largely homemade. the world economy is growing, europe is stagnating, and the largest economy in europe is shrinking. the commission has been able to take a number of steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented in a manner that is consistent with the objectives of the single act. in addition to the material burdens which can certainly be discussed in individual cases, the major, single element in this legislative period was the enormous increase in reporting obligations that came with almost every legislative proposal, and with the sustainability reporting and the supply chain responsibility legislation, two very big bureaucratic hammers are coming to our companies. reporting creates enormous bureaucratic burdens, but does not solve a problem by itself; it is the definition of redundant bureaucracy. the commission has now made initial bold proposals to reduce reporting obligations. this is going in the right direction, but it is not far enough. this means that we must make the issue of red tape, competitiveness, growth the main theme of the next legislative term and the next term of office of the european commission, otherwise the future of europe will look relatively bleak in the long term. and if the commission itself presents a cost index, where it describes the costs that companies are being charged and concludes that, for example, sustainability reporting is not yet generating costs this year; i am not sure what the commission is going to do, but i am sure that it will be very helpful to us. yeah, did you even understand what companies have to do? they'll have to prepare themselves now. of course, there are costs now, because if they have to provide data by 1 january, they cannot start work until 1 january. so this is really a miscalculation and a miscalculation of the public. europe had once set itself the goal of becoming the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economic area in the world with the lisbon strategy. we are miles away from this goal, and we urgently need a change. the commission is invited to provide this.
president-in-office of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am here today to discuss an issue of utmost importance to the european union, an issue which is high on its political agenda: our joint efforts to unleash the potential of entrepreneurship and competitiveness in europe and to reduce the regulatory burden. reducing the administrative burden is a prerequisite for maintaining the competitiveness of the european economy and of european enterprises, particularly smes, and complements the important efforts recently made to support entrepreneurship. competitiveness is essential to facilitate and accelerate the ecological and digital transitions of the european economy in a world facing increasing geopolitical tension and global strategic competition. this explains why this issue has been high on the agenda of the european council. first, in march this year, the leaders called for progress on a regulatory framework to boost growth, reduce the administrative burden and carry out competitiveness checks on new legislative proposals. the european council then, in june, took stock of progress made and what remains to be done to increase long-term competitiveness and productivity. in this context, we welcome the commission's work programme for 2024 including several proposals to streamline and simplify reporting obligations with a view to reducing them by 25%. we are talking about a significant number of legislative proposals aimed at reducing the administrative burden. some of them have already been presented and others will be presented in the future. a few days after the adoption of the commission's work programme for 2024, the european council specifically called for further work in this area, in particular with regard to reporting obligations, especially for smes and start-ups. the council is ready to do its job and to address the proposals of the european commission quickly and efficiently. however, we are all aware that the main difficulties lie in the details of how to proceed with simplification work. as colegislators, we can make a great contribution to keeping the administrative burden to a minimum when we negotiate important legislative files. in fact, the administrative burden is often increased as a result of a sum of small and proportionate costs directed towards other key policy objectives. we have concrete examples of this in our daily work. we have to be careful not to take the same measures as the commission, but we must be careful not to take the same measures as the commission. in relation to these and many other cases, we have had difficulty in striking the delicate balance between our desire to receive more information from market operators and the burden that data collection could entail. part of the process mainly concerns the authorities of the member states, who need to simplify public administration tools and practices. however, the need for simplification should also be taken into account in legislative work at eu level. in short, the spanish presidency is determined to process the proposals to reduce the burden as quickly and efficiently as possible and expects a similar level of ambition from parliament. this is also why debates like today are important to raise collective awareness of the issue and prevent us from losing sight of the objective.
executive vice-pesident of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, madam minister, i would like to thank you, and especially mr ferber for having added this pertinent topic of reducing regulatory burden to the debate. this is an important effort to support our entrepreneurs and businesses, which have faced numerous challenges in recent years, from the pandemic to high inflation and the energy price crisis, alongside wider societal changes such as the twin green and digital transition. in the new geopolitical context and amidst strong global competition, it is crucial that we look at boosting all factors that drive economic growth and sustainable competitiveness. our march communication on long-term competitiveness highlighted that the growth enhancing regulatory framework is a central part of this, and it announced our goal to streamline reporting obligations and reduce its burden by 25%. we made it clear that these efforts will not undermine our policy objectives, such as tackling the climate crisis. rather, they will give fresh impetus to our efforts to simplify and cut unnecessary burdens. the less red tape they are faced with, the more our businesses, and especially our smes, can focus on building sustainable growth. to follow up on the communication, reducing burden was made a top priority in our 2024 commission work programme, which we presented last month. it included 26 new rationalisation proposals, in addition to the 15 we had already adopted between march and october. with the data already available, we have estimated that the proposals could bring eur 3.6 billion in cost savings, while total cost savings of all 41 proposals is estimated to be even bigger. let me give you some examples. first, the reform of the union custom code is expected to bring eur 2 billion in savings by cutting burdens related to customs and vat reporting for traders, including by providing one single eu interface and facilitating data reuse. second, it is estimated that a proposal for the revision of the regulation on european statistics will save a further eur 450 million. third, we have proposed to postpone the deadline for adoption of the sector-wide european sustainability reporting standards. this will give stakeholders more time to adapt to the new requirements, and we also adjusted the thresholds of the accounting directive so that more than a million companies will benefit from the simpler reporting requirements. moreover, the work programme includes 16 evaluations and fitness checks of existing legislation and they will help us to identify further potential to reduce administrative burden and look at cumulative costs. honourable members in order to carry this work forward, we will seek to engage more closely with our businesses and stakeholders. first, we launched a call for evidence last month asking stakeholders for their input. we will also pursue targeted consultations with, amongst others, companies, smes, the sme envoys network and member state experts. and second, i have asked our ‘fit for future’ expert group to contribute to this exercise. third, each commission directorate-general will prepare targeted plans for 2024 and beyond. we will report on the progress made on cutting burden from reporting requirements in the next annual burden survey. this focus on existing burden is complemented by our efforts to limit new burden. for instance, our ‘one in, one out’ approach acts as a cost break for new proposals. it means that we offset newly introduced burdens by removing equivalent burdens, ideally in the same policy area. the last annual burden survey, published together with our sme relief package in september, reported about the first year of full implementation of this approach, and it shows that the overall expected savings from the 2022 proposals, once adopted by co-legislators, would amount to eur 7.3 billion, providing significant relief for businesses and citizens. while we already have a top-notch better regulation framework, we also made ensuring its systematic and systemic application a priority. we introduce a new mandatory competitiveness check in all impact assessments and strengthen the sme test and the regulatory scrutiny board. together with the incoming eu sme envoy, this would ensure greater focus on the impact on businesses, especially smes. we are also developing a more innovation-friendly approach to regulation through the greater use of regulatory sandboxes and testbeds. better law-making is, of course, a joint effort and we will need your support, together with that of the council, to make sure that our eu laws are simpler, more targeted and easier to comply with in order to boost the competitiveness of our businesses. and finally, madam president, i want to mention the series of clean transition roundtables with industry we are organising in order to remain fully engaged with those who are at the core of the implementation of the green deal. the first one was held in october with a focus on hydrogen, with further ones to follow soon. we are also holding a series of green dialogues with citizens, local authorities, social partners and other stakeholders as part of our efforts to ensure a just transition. together, i believe we can make a real difference that will be felt by our businesses and our citizens.
i'm here for the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, council, in the past period the commission's work programme has included almost 600 initiatives. that's a huge amount. at the same time as the green transition and the digitisation of europe have been well advanced, the commission has produced a huge number of new directives, regulations and delegated acts, and i do not say at all that the european parliament would have done any better in reducing bureaucracy. the result has been a vast overlap of legislation and obligations on our industries and businesses. the administrative burden is huge for these huge companies, but especially when we talk about smes. we're gonna have to put a stop to this. we really need to ease and reduce regulation, not just talk about it beautifully. we remember well that at the beginning of this period the commission promised to implement the one in, one out rule, that is, whenever there is a new obligation, the other one is relaxed. no results have been obtained from this. the commission has now promised to include the competitiveness check, the competitiveness test, in each new legislation, as well as the sme test. we're waiting for results. it is certainly welcome that the commission has now taken up this matter in its work programme for next year and has made it a priority. but we must, for the coming eu year, aim at strengthening the strategic competitiveness of the whole of europe. this means that we need to create legislation that encourages investment and innovation in europe. the additional administrative burden must be lightened and businesses must be given the opportunity to innovate and create new ones.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam vice-president, vice-president šefčovič, ladies and gentlemen, why do we legislate? we legislate because we want to protect the health of our citizens, advance social standards and boost the growth of our businesses. legislating is responding to a changing reality due to technological progress to increasing citizen demands or to environmental deterioration. we therefore believe that the right wing of this house has an irresponsible attitude and that it is fueling euroscepticism with such debates. after four years of constructive cooperation between the great forces of this parliament, the european people's party now calls for a legislative moratorium, so that we do not move forward so quickly. this position contains another agenda, and that is to take advantage of it to promote deregulation. as a social democratic family, we show our rejection of this path. in the s&d group, we have always advocated balanced and science-based regulation, because it is impossible to guarantee the future competitiveness of the european union unless we commit ourselves to binding commitments and support measures for the technologies of the future and fight to prevent climate disaster. it is not serious to simplify and say that regulation is less competitive. moreover, competitiveness allows us to create economic opportunities in line with our strategic priorities as a continent. the commission's working methods must, of course, move towards simplified regulation, deepen our common market and incorporate the proposals of the sectors concerned, always ensuring that the regulatory burden is digestible for smes. there they will find us. in short, optimizing the regulatory burden, yes. pushing deregulation to cover up climate denial, no.
for the renew group. mrs president, we have been discussing these problems for years and now it seems that it is time to do something about them. we must put action behind those words that have been all too many. the growing bureaucracy is stifling our competitiveness and challenging our entrepreneurs. in the face of the fierce competition between the united states and china, we must therefore limit our bureaucratic burdens now. the commission's proposal to reduce the reporting obligation is therefore an important step which we appreciate. but we have to move on. we need to introduce a real competition check on new eu legislation and this must be done from the next meeting. before we pass a new law, we must ensure that it does not undermine the competitive opportunities of entrepreneurs and small businesses. they are, after all, the whole skeleton of our business structure in europe. it's important that we realize that. soon, renew europe and i will present a paper on competitiveness on behalf of our group, in which we present ten proposals to help and boost our businesses. i am pleased to present this to the commission and to you colleagues. we need to make sure our bureaucracy is constrained now. we need to improve our competitiveness.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. a3-14/91) by mr van den broek, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the conclusion of the agreement between the european economic community and the european economic community on the conclusion of the agreement between the european economic community and the european economic community (oj l 347, 27.11.1991, p. it's getting harder and harder to do business. in the banking sector, which still provides 80% of business loans to smes, 20% of employees are now involved in compliance. to clarify, in the netherlands there are twice as many compliance officers as district agents. the eu provides 90% of the regulatory pressure for our smes. financial audits, risk management, privacy laws. on top of that, there are all kinds of reporting obligations like working conditions, climate, gender equality... the list goes on. i recently took a tour of typical dutch companies. a cheese maker in northern holland told me that he lost €50,000 a year to auditors and consultants. for my colleagues on the left: that's one less worker on the workplace. colleagues, since you're all playing with your phones, go to the corporate sustainability due diligence directive, or, as we know it here, csddd. what do you see? that 's right . all of them are big consulting firms and law firms. you're making sure they benefit. not the employer, not the employee. mrs von der leyen promised us less regular pressure, but as is often the case, it was empty promises. entrepreneurs lose confidence and hope. it's going to cost us all.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, mr commissioner, over the years the european union has continued to weigh the regulatory burden on our businesses. all the pretexts seem good for stacking up standards that have become so much an obstacle to the competitiveness of our economies. in a recent interview, the new head of medef, a frenchman, himself denounced this proliferation of european legislation, as well as the administrative slowdown that is leading to the unlocking of european public funds. it is alarming that a structural gap is building up between the european union and the united states. these words, which are those of the french employers, should warn us. in the field of artificial intelligence, this abundance of standards is illustrated by a binding framework that makes us champions for regulating businesses that others create in our place. it is characterised in agriculture by environmental standards which we are the only ones in the world to apply and which we dispense to producers outside europe. finally, one of the best examples of this regulatory gossip is found in the directive on the duty of vigilance which our competitors, first of all the united states and china, are looking at with interest, curious whether we will be crazy enough to hang a new ball on our own feet. at a time when sobriety has become a common vocabulary word, it would be appropriate for the union to adopt normative sobriety. i would like to ask the commissioner if he can do something about this. let our companies and our entrepreneurs throw their talents into global competition. let them work, produce, create, innovate, hire and everything will be fine.
the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, has said that the european union is not a country that produces, that is, that it is a country that does not innovate. defending businesses, but especially small businesses, means defending the future of work and our society. but the business world must not be built on an ivory tower, defending as the last of the mohicans a model that is no longer sustainable, neither environmentally, economically, nor socially. the energy and digital transition is a challenge that we must ride and win together without fear. we as the european parliament must do our part: the commission has already decided to make a number of proposals for a new directive on the protection of the environment. that's how we kill our little business. we are on the side of small enterprises, which still make up 99% of european enterprises.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. the european economy wants to contribute to climate protection. the companies want to invest in secure supplier structures. and the european union provides the framework for this. we have a lot of things that we regulate in terms of new trade agreements, in terms of the green deal, in terms of the net zero industry act, in terms of the economy. nevertheless, the economy is complaining about bureaucracy. why? why? because we have abandoned an important principle: we have too little confidence in the market economy and too little confidence in people. why are we doing csrd, taxonomy, ehs and building policy at the same time? there are environmental and social laws that regulate everything. why should taxonomy and csrd be used to reintroduce banking finance when we already have the emissions trading system that guarantees compliance with the co2 targets? why force people's homes to be cleaned at home when the building industry has just been incorporated into the emissions trading? i don't understand that, the companies don't understand that. we're less and less believing in the market, but we're regulating with pants and belts at the same time. the green deal makes sense. yes, supply chain legislation has a clear justification, too. but right now, it's all coming together, and the companies are choking on bureaucracy. let's give them some air to breathe. i think your relief package is a great start. i'll stress, the beginning. we just need a lot more confidence in the market economy, a lot more confidence in the companies. this is the best contribution to the building of bureaucracy.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of certain products. the commission has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are met. the epp should decide. a few weeks ago they invited anu bradford from the united states to come and cheer for the brussels effect, which means that everyone in the world wants to emulate our product standards, and that is why the single market dominates everything. and at the same time, they want to do away with all that. yeah, are we gonna shoot ourselves in the knee with our rules now, or is this really the way to our world championship? you don't know that much. but what exactly is bureaucracy? we hear: reporting obligations; new rules; and worst of all, they're miserable rules with bizarre exceptions. yeah, why do we have reporting obligations? we have reporting obligations so that capital can be invested in any instruments that can prove that they are sustainable by producing nuclear energy and natural gas energy. it shows that it's not really the right way. yes, let's decide on real duties of action. yes, and that's exactly what we're doing now in the eu supply chain law. so, welcome to join us in this! and then, why do we have these miserable, huge regulations? every time the commission sends us a draft, we get a bombshell of emails with friendly amendments from the industrial lobby. they're then copied and pasted into the legislative process, and we get rid of absurd regulations. so, yes, a moratorium is definitely in place. i would like to ask you to put a moratorium on lobbying amendments in this house. we will also achieve red tape.
madam president, commissioner, last week the mayor of a small town in normandy told me that he had called in an agent for a week to respond to a call for european projects. the result of the races: no european funding was granted and a mayor who now considers europe as a technostructure inaccessible to the majority. this is the daily fate of our mayors and the leaders of millions of european smes, who struggle every day to access and benefit from what europe has to offer. the european union is not yet a reality. this is evidenced by the fact that we have never spoken so much about europe as when the rumor spread that europe (the european commission) wanted to ban camembert boxes or oyster burritos. i am from normandy and i am glad that we have been able to vote on an amendment to reverse this text. let us act as quickly as possible to get local elected officials and european business leaders to speak about europe, and for the good of europe. the european union regulates, and this is good for the functioning of our internal market, for our competitiveness and security, but this regulatory mixture can quickly become indigestible, especially when you do not have the emergency number for indigestion. the announcement by mrs ursula von der leyen of the creation of a representative for smes and your confirmation is a positive signal that must be made real and amplified as soon as possible. we are now working for our millions of small businesses and for competitiveness in europe.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, it is not our custom to interfere in the internal affairs of another state. but as there are exceptions to all principles, the plausible risk of dislocation of the spanish national territory obviously attracts our attention. in a struggle to secure a majority in the spanish parliament, the prime minister preferred unnatural alliances to keep his position and his government. the sad reality of a denial that is about to go very wrong. the promise of an amnesty law for catalan separatists has been a blow to the heart, because it contains many provisions in favour of a genuine secession and would also be contrary to a concept often put forward here: the rule of law. the commission, which is always ready to pin hungary and poland on the ground of non-compliance with the rule of law, is still silent when a socialist government is about to circumvent the judiciary for the sake of political interests. these maneuvers by the spanish prime minister have provoked large-scale protests which have been taking place in public space for weeks. there is a real movement in the population. with this legitimate and healthy anger, the spanish people express their attachment to their country and national identity. the different local and regional cultures, in spain and france, can coexist peacefully within the national framework. we must therefore defend our nations and their integrity and win the fight against all kinds of deconstructors, some of whom are already in the european institutions. in the interests of spain and its unity, it is hoped that if this law is passed, the constitutional court will remain calm and invalidate the text and that the king will stand firm against the pressures of the socialists and separatists.
mr president, what an absolute sadness that we are now seeing spain, such a great country hostage to such miserable and dangerous manoeuvres. in my country also, in france, we had an amnesty law after immensely painful historical divisions. but it was announced ahead of elections, not improvised after. it was debated in public with the citizens, not agreed in secret with condemned people. it was for the future of the country, not for the survival of a weak government. i have a very simple question to the socialist colleagues here, to the friends of pedro sánchez. did anyone of you defend this rupture of inequality among the spanish people ahead of the vote of the spanish people? this is a very simple question. and why are you socialists always repeating that this is only an internal issue and nothing that concerns europe? you have always been so vocal and so insistent when you were criticising hungary or poland about the rule of law. and indeed this is about the rule of law that we are speaking right now. the fact that law rules over politics and not short-term political interests over the legal order confirmed by the people, is the very basis of democracy since it was founded at the birth of the european spirit 25 centuries ago. and we are here because of this. those of us who write the law, do not have any right to destroy it. this would have a name, this is called corruption. a final word to all the people of spain who are defending now this rule of law and freedom, queridos amigos españoles, ánimo. españa no se rinde.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i want to first of all thank the spanish presidency, with whom i work very well as rapporteur and i think we must respect that. secondly, commissioner, i want to tell you that i have been careful since we introduced this mechanism of the rule of law that can be used to a double degree. i want to remind you that the legislative initiative we're debating right now is an internal issue. whether or not any government can pass legislation is not the european commission's question. when i wrote you, commissioner, asking for uniform accountability of magistrates in all member states, you replied that the organisation of justice and the functioning of justice is subsidiarity. it's the answer you signed. then why do you want this? the epp, if it has bothered you so much, why didn't you complain that the rule of law doesn't work before the election and not after the results?
mr president, i did not intend to ask for the floor, but i think we must say something important. it's a lot worse than giving impunity in exchange for seven votes. the real problem is that the socialists have given them the right. and they don't have it. the catalan secessionists of all these years were not and are not right. it's not a democratic deficit. it is a problem of exclusive identity and of rancid populism. and the problem, when you're given the reason, is that you're now their hostages. first, the forgiven. those forgiveness that thomas and brave would never have appreciated, because there was no repentance. it's the amendment of the criminal code to weaken the malversacy or eliminate sedition, to make us weaker. and now, large-scale impunity. and what comes after that: a fraudulent constitutional mutation. why can the constitution be changed? yes, but not against the laws and the will of most spaniards. that's the problem.
member of the commission. i would like to thank the honourable member for his comments. this has led to a number of very different opinions and comments on the debate. but i am glad that we can continue our dialogue on the rule of law in all the member states. i am sure that the commission will be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission is able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are fully used. i would like to reiterate that we appreciate the spanish authorities' willingness to have a dialogue with the commission on the reforms ahead. it stressed, however, the importance of implementing and implementing all the necessary reforms in the areas of independence and efficiency of the judiciary, the fight against corruption, freedom of the media and the balance of power. in this regard, the commission made several recommendations to the spanish authorities in its report on the rule of law last july. we will continue to monitor the situation in spain as in all member states. this also applies to recent developments in the law on amnesty, on which we are in close contact with the spanish authorities. and more generally, we will work on this as part of the preparation of the 2024 report on the rule of law. i shall return to the amnesty bill. the debate and analysis of this text will first take place in spain, within the framework of the spanish constitution, and firstly in the spanish parliament. as the guardian of the treaties, the commission analyses the draft law or proposal tabled in parliament to ensure its compatibility with union law. i would like to thank the stakeholders in the various groups for having reminded me that there was indeed a link with eu law, since this compatibility must be verified not only with article 2 of the eu treaty on the values which underpin the union, but also with certain elements of criminal law at european level. as guardian of the treaties, the commission must act to verify this compatibility. the rule of law therefore unites us and it is in a completely independent and objective way that the commission will carry out this analysis of the proposed proposal, the amendments that could be made in the context of the debates, and all the texts that could translate into the political agreement reached for the formation of the new spanish government (many have mentioned other aspects that we have not yet encountered in the texts submitted to us). and we will finish our analysis when a final text has been adopted by the spanish parliament. i am convinced that we will still have the opportunity to debate this situation, but in any case the commission will carry out its analysis as it does with all member states, on an equal footing, using the same criteria, the same methodologies and it will draw conclusions that can be compared with all those we make when we work on a situation in a given member state.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, may i reiterate that the presidency and the council as a whole attach great importance to the rule of law. this is particularly important in the difficult times we are going through, as our external action can only be effective and credible if our values are fully fulfilled also within the union. as a member state and part of this union, spain fully supports the core elements of the rule of law, especially the separation of powers and the independence of the judiciary. we will continue to cooperate with the commission in the context of the annual reports on the rule of law and, as always, we will undertake to consider any recommendations that arise from this year in a constructive and democratic spirit.
now, as i promised, i would like to give the floor at the end of the debate, according to rule 173, to paulo rangel. but please follow the rules until three minutes.
mr president, it is only a very, very short remark to say that i was expecting that – when you are conducting our session and someone exaggerates a bit in the way it refers to a colleague – you should intervene. and you did not do it. it’s no hard and no personal feelings with pedro marques, not at all, even if what he said, that is intellectually dishonest. and now i do not expect any correction from you, because he has the opportunity to read, if he wants, my last book that is already in all libraries and bookshops and there this is very clearly explained. by the way, it was already published before, but i do not want to give any constitutional law lesson, because i saw in the last days, after this proposal of the spanish government that our socialists have forgotten all lessons from constitutional law, and now they are against a separation of powers. so i do not pretend to teach anybody, not even a portuguese colleague, only to say that i am not intellectually dishonest.
so, colleagues, thank you for this debate. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. socialists believe that the real threat to our democracy is that the spanish right does not take on the electoral results of july 23 and the absolute parliamentary majority that has given continuity to a progressive government. unfortunately, the people's party (pp) and its far-right government partners prefer to feed anti-democratic conspiracies and behaviours rather than bet on the sanity, coherence and coexistence of our country. and above all, they continue to give way to the ultra-movements and do not condemn the violence against the socialist party headquarters, the threats against socialist militants and attacks on journalists. finally, the socialists argue that the proposal for an organic law in question does not pose any threat to the rule of law or democracy in spain, nor does it contain any shadow of judicial control or lawfare. the real threat to judicial independence in spain is the blockade of the renewal of the general council of the judiciary, which has been in effect for five years.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the destruction of judicial independence and the persecution of democrats in hong kong (2023/2984(rsp)). commissioner dubravka šuica is standing in for the high representative this evening.
vice-president of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, beijing imposed a national security law on hong kong over three years ago, in june 2020. since then, we have witnessed the rights and freedoms that the people of hong kong enjoyed in the past decline rapidly and dramatically. hong kong has changed fundamentally. the political opposition in hong kong is now effectively muted. most independent media outlets closed. many civil society organisations disbanded. more than 280 arrests have been made under the national security law or colonial era sedition legislation. the trials of jimmy lai, the so-called hong kong 47 and stand news are emblematic cases that we are following closely. the european union strongly condemned the extraterritorial application of the national security law in july, when hong kong authorities issued arrest warrants and bounties for eight pro-democracy activists living outside hong kong. eu member states adopted council conclusions in july 2020, setting out the initial european response to the imposition of the national security law on hong kong. that position of the council remains largely valid and it continues to guide our action. the national security law also threatens to undermine judicial independence. for instance, the executive decides if a case affects national security and it handpickes the judges that preside over national security cases. sweeping changes to the electoral system have also severely weakened democracy in hong kong. this is illustrated by the district council elections coming up in december. not a single pro-democracy candidate has passed the new nomination procedure. there are no signs that these drastic changes are likely to be reversed. on the contrary, additional national security legislation is being prepared. china has failed to implement its international commitments under the senior british declaration of 1984. hong kong’s high degree of autonomy and the rights and freedoms of the people of hong kong were supposed to be guaranteed until at least 2047. it is crystal clear that china has consciously dismantled the one country, two systems principle. the european union will continue to raise human rights concerns with china. human rights dialogues are an integral part of our frank exchanges with china, and in particular in relation to hong kong we will continue to remind china of its international commitments. we will do so in direct contacts, including the upcoming eu-china summit, as well as through public statements. despite the drastic changes, there are still political and social aspects that distinguish hong kong from mainland china. the internet remains largely unrestricted. the media landscape is still more diverse, despite most independent outlets closing down. and there have been positive court rulings on equal treatment of same sex couples. in short, some pockets of freedom persist. the european union will continue to implement the july 2020 council conclusions. our coordinated measures in response to the national security law.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, commissioners, colleagues, the totalitarian regime of the chinese communist party has destroyed hong kong’s high degree of autonomy and freedom. this is a fact. moreover, the assault on the judicial independence and abuse of the law to crack down on pro-democracy activists has been central to beijing’s strategy to silence all democratic opposition in hong kong. in the last years, this house has passed multiple resolutions about the deteriorating, situation in hong kong. but they have been met with a frustrating lack of response from the council and the commission. that is why i want to remind colleagues that the deterioration of the freedoms and the rule of law in hong kong also directly impacts us, as the growing evidence of sanction invasion through the city continues to show. colleagues, it’s time for the eu to act. the existing council conclusions need updating and implementing. we must insist on the immediate release of all people detained under the nsl and for the ending of the political show trials. finally, it is time for john lee and other hong kong and chinese officials to be held accountable, including by imposing eu targeted sanctions.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, colleagues, commissioner, millions: millions of brave demonstrators took the streets in hong kong and demanded for democracy, civil rights and freedoms. the national security law has stopped any protests and oppressed fundamental rights. instead of the principle of one country with two systems, we now see one country imposing its system. anyone who resists could face a lifetime in jail for anything that the chinese regime dislikes. hong kong’s puppet government can appoint judges and overturn rulings. colleagues, when the rule of law is in the hands of the chinese communist party, there is no rule of law. as this parliament’s china rapporteur, i will always stand up for the brave people of hong kong. we will never forget them. in our new recommendation for the china policy, we call on the eu to condemn china’s human rights violations with one single voice. only then we can defend our values. we will always, colleagues, repeat our call for sanctions against those responsible for the destruction of democracy and the rule of law in hong kong.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – president, commissioner, colleagues, the 25th annual report on recent developments in hong kong is a dire, dark, dystopian report. step by step, all the freedoms guaranteed under the hong kong basic law are being suffocated in violation of international law, and i join the criticism of colleague lexmann that the council has been dodging these developments. we demand on you to speak up. the freedom of press is denied. the freedom of association, the freedom of speech, and the freedom of the vote. not a single opposition candidate has been allowed to run for the district elections, because if just one opposition person would be elected, everybody would be able to see through the ruse of the totalitarian measures. the united nations human rights council has urged hong kong to repeal the national security law, but instead hundreds have been arrested – some in custody since 2021, without trial, even in solitary confinement. i would say we should focus on five demands in dealing with hong kong. first of all, don’t forget the fate of the democratic fighters like courageous chow hang-tung, who gave a very good speech in defence of democracy at her trial. so continue and guarantee trial observation. second, sanction john lee. john lee is one of the main culprits of these measures. do not normalise the relationship with his regime. make sure, through a business advisory, that european companies will not inadvertently become complicit and raise these issues and tell the public how you do that at the upcoming china eu summit.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, commissioner, i’m afraid that picture you painted in your presentation, commissioner, is less rosy than presented. both of us know from bygone times how communist rule is able to slowly, consequently suffocate any free will, free speech, freedom of association and a free society within hong kong. on enacting the prc national security law, four new crimes were introduced: secession, subversion, terrorism and collusion with international organisations. all of these help the judiciary system of hong kong to really curb any free activity. we have to act with full resolve here in the european parliament and in our discussions with prc authorities.
for the id group. mr president, china is a threat, but china has been a threat since the communist takeover. the chinese communist dictatorship has been subjected to crimes against humanity on a scale that fully tolerates comparisons to stalin's russia and hitler's germany. yet we have not seen a strong condemnation on the part of europe of china's communist regime. it is very worrying that what china has been able to grow stronger from, in comparison with the economic power that has now become a military power, has been a complete 'laissez faire approach' on the part of europe. an approach that has been repeatedly given up to the chinese dictatorship. yes, even in this room we have people sitting who throughout the cold war defended communism and still today have not acknowledged the scale of crimes that communist china has endured through time. so if we're going to have a fight, if we're going to save hong kong, it requires a hard fight with china first. but i do not believe that the will is there because the eu and europe have failed to follow that agenda for decades.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months the dramatic situation in hong kong has become too far from the spotlight, overshadowed by the same, and perhaps even more dramatic news that is coming to us from other parts of the world, i think of ukraine, i think of palestine. yet we have a moral duty to pay close attention to a country that has seen the arrest of over 200 pro-democracy activists, which has seen the progressive dismantling of democratic institutions and the entire civil rights system that was once its pride. the people of hong kong continue their fight and we must stand by them against the repressive brutality of the chinese communist party. we must suspend all extradition treaties that some member states still have with china. we must severely punish this annexationist policy which violates beijing's international commitments, which increasingly shows the features of a dictatorship incompatible with our principles and values. i call on all those european political leaders, and especially in italy, who still today are staring at beijing, who still today brazenly defend failed memoranda and hypocrites. we do not trade our principles and values on the altar of business as usual from which we have only much to lose and little or nothing to gain. otherwise nothing will remain of our european, democratic and individual liberty-defenders. your silence is complicit. today we are all citizens of hong kong.
mr president, the european union is much more than just an economic unit. it is a political project based on respect for the rule of law. and for years, the citizens of hong kong have shown us that this ideal matters. that, yes, independent justice is worth fighting for. today, they are paying the price. repression, disappearances, imprisonment, arbitrary trials. it's here, the chinese government's answer. and let us not be mistaken, we are also destined for this answer and we must be very firm. but to be heard, the european union must be united. as europeans, we must end our dependence on china, work towards our strategic autonomy, accelerate our risk reduction, not let any attack on the rule of law go unpunished and support the people of hong kong. yes, commissioner, only with a strong europe can we help the citizens of hong kong. so let's stop being sluggish and move on.
vice-president of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, this debate shows that hong kong matters to the european union. we have strong economic ties. the european union remains the largest foreign business community in hong kong. some 1 600 companies are in business in hong kong. the last year, the european union was hong kong’s third largest trading partner in goods, after mainland china and taiwan. at the same time, hong kong matters to the european union because the deliberate dismantling of hong kong’s autonomy, democracy and fundamental freedoms affects us directly. the european union, as a matter of foreign policy and as a matter of values, will consistently speak out on the right of people to express themselves. the european union will also continue to remind china of the need to uphold its international commitments. the european union office in hong kong is constantly monitoring political developments and human rights. together with european union member states in hong kong, the european union office regularly conducts trial observations – already 112 this year. this european diplomatic presence is valued by civil society in hong kong, and it marks our determination to stand up for rights and values which are universal. and to mr lega and others, although he left, we showed repeatedly that we are ready to react decisively to address serious human rights violations around the world. when it comes to hong kong, we are closely following the situation. we have made it clear that developments in hong kong have an impact and on all eu-china relations. we continue implementing the july 2020 package, as already said, but at this stage, we are not currently considering additional measures. as for restrictive measures or sanctions – because he asks about sanctions, any decision to designate persons or entities under an existing sanctions regime, or to amend an existing sanctions regime or set up a new regime, is for the council, who is here now, to make, acting by unanimity.
the debate is now closed.
the next item is the debate on council and commission statements on cyprus confidential – the need to curb enablers of sanctions-evasion and money-laundering rules in the eu (2023/2986(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for inviting the council to this debate. i would like to begin by assuring you that the council, like parliament and the commission, is firmly committed to combating money laundering and terrorist financing. we have already made important progress in this area together, in particular through amendments to the anti-money laundering directive, the banking package and the regulation on the european banking authority, as well as in the framework of criminal law. this year we have adopted the amendment to the regulation on transfers of funds which has since come into force. in addition, of course, negotiations are still ongoing on the anti-money laundering regulation, the anti-money laundering directive and the new anti-money laundering and terrorist financing authority, which will be the cornerstone of our common framework in this area. all these advances bear witness to our joint commitment to developing a stronger, more harmonized and better supervised framework. our respective negotiating teams are working full-time on this matter in order to achieve our objective. this debate is specifically about the research called 'confidential cyprus'. i shall refrain from commenting on news in the press or on the situation of a particular member state. i understand that the cypriot authorities are conducting the relevant official investigations and that they should continue their course. what i can say, from the council's point of view, is that i am fully convinced that the legislative package we are currently debating will greatly hinder the activities of criminals, particularly activities such as those mentioned in this matter. the presidency is making every effort to reach a political agreement with you, without a doubt, before the end of the current legislature. if we let this opportunity pass until the next legislature, we would be deprived of our reinforced framework and it would certainly be regrettable. i am therefore not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the commission. our institutions agree that this is an urgent matter as this debate itself shows. president. - ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i believe we are at an important moment, when we have the opportunity to move towards a regime of enormous effectiveness in combating money laundering and terrorist financing. i look forward to continuing the negotiations on the anti-money laundering package and to successfully concluding them, hopefully next month. i would also like to take this opportunity to mention our work on the avoidance of sanctions, especially in the context of russia's war of aggression against ukraine. as you know, the 11th sanctions package against russia includes a much stronger system to block possible avenues of evasion. it is important that all sanctioned goods and technologies, but especially all combat goods that russia could use for military purposes to continue its aggression against ukraine, be blocked. given the scale of the measures taken, it is very important to apply them correctly and uniformly. but success begins here, with good cooperation between the competent authorities of the member states and the commission. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate our full determination to continue to cooperate with parliament in this area.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, the cyprus confidential investigation has made serious allegations of sanctions circumvention and money laundering in cyprus. according to the investigation, there may also have been instances of tax avoidance or even tax evasion involved. we note that the cypriot authorities have already announced that they will investigate these matters. we are raising these issues with them too. a year and a half after the beginning of russia’s war of aggression against ukraine, it is essential for us to stay vigilant about any violation or circumvention attempts that could weaken the intended impact of our sanctions. as you know, we have 11 packages of far-reaching sanctions in place. the high representative and the commission proposed a 12th package on 14 november. this is currently being discussed in the council. we take any allegation of breaches of european sanctions very seriously. we have also been determined to drive forward a very ambitious agenda to fight money laundering and terrorist financing. as a result, the european union has some of the toughest money laundering rules in the world, thanks also to the commitment of this house. as you know, we are working to strengthen our tools to fight money laundering with the ambitious package under negotiation. there is no room for complacency. we have to ensure that european rules are correctly implemented by member states and european operators to prevent crime, protect the european union financial system and ensure sanctions are enforced. in july, the commission opened an infringement procedure against cyprus on the grounds of incorrect transposition of the fifth anti-money laundering directive. this action was taken before the cyprus confidential investigation. we keep a close eye on the implementation of european law. this infringement mainly relates to how the national beneficial ownership register works. the beneficial ownership register is a pillar of any national framework against money laundering. it contains data on the beneficial owners of companies and trusts: who actually owns what. a complete and accurate beneficial ownership register is essential for enforcing sanctions because it can help identify the true owners, who often are behind complex corporate structures. the eu member states are responsible for implementing and enforcing sanctions. the commission has dedicated significant efforts to support member states in this task. we provide guidance and bring national authorities together on a regular basis to exchange data and best practices. we want to help make sure that sanctions are uniformly applied across the european union. we set up the ‘freeze and seize task force’ to improve the cooperation with and among member states on sanctions implementation. but there will always be unscrupulous actors looking to make a profit no matter what, including by violating or circumventing sanctions. violating sanctions is a crime in most member states, but how offences are defined and the types and levels of penalties differ significantly across the member states. to address this problem, the commission last year proposed a directive to harmonise definitions and penalties for sanctions violation. the proposal contains a detailed list of criminal offences targeting violations of different types of european sanctions, such as asset-freeze measures, sectorial measures, travel bans and arms embargoes. the list of criminal offences also covers specific cases of sanction circumvention. i want to thank the rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs and their teams working on anti-money laundering files and the proposal on the violation of sanctions. i know that parliament takes these matters as seriously as the commission does. the commission is closely following developments in cyprus. last week, 14 november, cyprus launched its electronic system for the beneficial ownership register. the roll-out of the whole system is planned for 2024. the commission is working closely with national authorities to address risks of circumvention, including providing guidance and legal clarity. in june of this year, a commission delegation travelled to nicosia to meet cypriot officials responsible for sanctions implementation and enforcement. cyprus is setting up a national sanctions implementation unit. we are watching these efforts closely. we will continue to monitor the situation, and we are available to help the relevant authorities in cyprus on this matter. i look forward to your views.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i would like to start by thanking the journalists who, once again, were the ones who have uncovered wrongdoing. we are now talking about cyprus confidential, but it could be luxleaks, panama papers, the paradise papers ... we have to ask ourselves, why is it that journalists seem to be the ones who are actually in charge of law enforcement? why is it that all this wrongdoing is not uncovered by the authorities: the national authorities and the european authorities? and quite frankly, i am tired of hearing the european commission say, ‘oh, this is national competence’. the only kind of enforcement that the commission does is seeing to it that a member state transposes the legislation, and your responsibility ends there. i recommend that you read the treaties once. it doesn't say there that it's only about transposition. you are responsible for enforcing eu laws and the european commission is not doing its job. you know why? because you rely exclusively on national authorities doing their duty. but you know what? when it's about corruption and financial wrongdoings, the national authorities very often are the culprits. they're complicit. they’re involved. cyprus, malta ... i mean, we can give so many examples. and this is the problem. it's happening right under your noses. and because of this lax attitude of the european commission, never mind the national authorities that are guilty of this, the european union is turning into a gangster's paradise – because there is complete impunity, because of your very legalistic interpretation or very narrow interpretation of the treaties, which i'm sure is wrong. finally, we are now working on the directive to criminalise sanction circumvention, and i would very much like to invite the council to join the european parliament in fighting for strong enforcement and harmonisation, closing all the loopholes.
i'm here for the ecr team. mr president, this new cyprus leak revealed alarming information about the country's financial sector's links to russia. for example, the cyprus office of accounting giant pwc has been assisting putin's neighbourhood at the same time that russia has launched an invasion war on ukraine. cyprus companies have been helping eu sanctions-takers circumvent the sanctions. the country's financial sector has long been full of russian money. more than 200 billion dollars of russian investment has been made in the country. i would like to stress the citizenship arrangements for investors, namely the golden visas. until recent years, cyprus had been able to obtain an eu passport for eur 2 million after only six months of waiting. for many russian lighters, the acquisition of an eu passport could therefore have been arranged by a simple transfer of accounts. i think it is important that these golden visa practices are banned throughout the union and that eu citizenship already purchased is revoked.
mr president, when explaining what is our work on ml reviews, i am always saying that an ml system is only as strong as the weakest points. unfortunately, we have too many weak points in europe. dealing with the financial sanctions, this is the same exercise as anti-money laundering. we need to track the flows and understand who owns what. so it is not surprising that we have seen such a failure of some firms in cyprus. what is maybe surprising is that some large multinational firms are involved. it is highly appropriate that ep negotiators are calling for stronger safeguards during our ml negotiation. and it’s a little bit frustrating that we must convince about it the commission and the council all over again. we have the right pieces on the table: amla should look after good enforcement across the member states, and better access to asset registries should also help a lot. even if we agree on stronger ml review, the job is not over. those who want to help criminals to hide or launder money will be looking after weak spots. we must make sure that there are not many. at the same time, we also must implement the really tough sanctions on those who are not following the law. i hope this is exactly what cypriot and other authorities will do very quickly.
mr president, while the cypriot people were paying enormous costs in imposing sanctions against russia, unfortunately, a few, exploiting the gaps in the time of the sanctions, were moving on to change ownership of companies that would be included in the sanctions list. these are on the altar of personal gain, even indifferent to the reputation of their country, feeling that they operate in a regime of lawlessness and impunity. the sanctions have hit the tourism industry to a great extent, closed down businesses and cypriot farmers stopped exporting their products to russia, seeing russian investors moving to turkey and the occupied part of cyprus. unfortunately, the negative mention of my country's name has been tarnished by these few and is added to the negative reports of cyprus' involvement after the panama papers, the gold passports and the pegasus. the new government through its president has stated that no one is above our country's reputation and that everything will be investigated. we expect that they will not only remain as proclamations, but that those who violated those decisions will be investigated and punished. the commission has already made sanctions violations a crime in cyprus and the institutional framework is becoming even stricter. transparency everywhere and for everyone, throughout europe.
mr president, commissioner, as we are on the 11th round of sanctions against russia, a consortium of journalists is denouncing possible money laundering operations by russian oligarchs in cyprus, within the european union itself. this is an overly scandalous situation which weakens not only one member state but the whole of europe, as our financial system is interconnected. at a time when the world is plagued by multiple conflicts, where corruption and money laundering are flourishing, plagues which, with the digitalisation of the economy, have no frontiers, we urgently need more europe. more europe with our new rules to effectively combat money laundering and ensure effective enforcement of sanctions. more about europe with the future european anti-money laundering authority, amla, which will be a key tool to achieve this by working closely with the paris-based financial market supervisory authority, emea. the second issue is the supervision of financial markets. the national supervisory authorities still have a significant power, but they must cooperate with each other because this has implications for our entire market. the emff's powers must therefore be extended to include direct supervision of our financial markets. so a strong institution with a single regulation for harmonized application across the whole internal market is the solution to end the forum shopping and finally end these scandals that weaken our democracies.
mr president, once again, thanks to the international consortium of investigative journalists, we are made aware of a huge money laundering scandal in the eu. the latest investigation shows how financial firms in cyprus have aided russian oligarchs in hiding their wealth offshore. so it seems that cyprus has widely contributed to russian influence through its golden passports and visa schemes. dozens of russian billionaires were clients of the island’s professional service providers. some have come under sanctions since february 2022 and others since 2014. 800 companies registered in tax and secrecy havens, all controlled by russians. this poses a wider question about the capacity of our institutions to prevent these deficiencies from rotting our union from within. it took years for the commission to start acting on golden passport schemes. right now, malta is not even considering stopping its own scheme. we have to call this what it is: selling european citizenship to make dirty money, giving the opportunity to dangerous people or mafia or foreign malicious actors to interfere and exert power in the eu. it needs to stop.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, for france, the enlargement of the european union in 2007 was not only a disappointment but also the acceleration of a historic exit. while the european union wants to continue on the path towards obesity, it is important to remember that the promises of peace, social progress and increased world influence were misleading. the anniversary of the copenhagen criteria is also particularly paradoxical, since the european commission has issued a favourable opinion on ukraine's candidacy, even though kiev does not clearly meet these criteria. the credibility of european construction is thus undermined, since the european union is laying down high principles which it is quick to forget and sweep away in the light of the circumstances. the integration of the balkan countries into the european union is increasingly a mafia in the french countryside. ukraine in the european union is at war in the union. and to speed up all this, you want france to agree to give up its royal duties so that qualified majority votes are systematically voted on in the european council. it seems inconceivable to me that a member of the un security council would become dependent on the decisions of the states which have delegated their independence to nato. with your proposals, france could be drawn into all the war-ridden wars of each other tomorrow if there is a majority against it. many french people do not want a new enlargement of europe, they already regret the precedents enough and they are right to fear the following.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, europeans are deeply aware of the danger posed by pollinators, a key component of our biodiversity, which is necessary for the reproduction of crops and the maintenance of botanical diversity. but this danger is not new. overuse of pesticides, loss of natural habitats and climate change pose major risks to the natural balance in many regions. the victims of this imbalance are also our farmers, because pollination determines the agricultural yields. this text shows that your approach is still marked by a disconnected, unapplicable ideology that responds to the only logic of the number. before we can lay down bureaucratic rules and utopian objectives, we are already behind in the search for new technologies. in france, agricultural research has allowed for the development of varieties more resistant to pests and droughts. agriculture is not therefore condemned to destroy pollinators, quite the contrary. we must put in place tax incentives for those who already adopt environmentally friendly practices and reduce the excessive and inapplicable accumulation of measures as much as possible. saving pollinators means saving agriculture and thus ensuring our food security for all. this text, and our entire delegation, supports it because the situation is critical. but we call for a much more realistic approach that finally trusts the work of our peasants.
madam president, i have also not supported this proposal and the main reason, although i think i always advocate a clear pro-european policy here, is that i do not agree with the strengthening of qualified majority decision-making. i think that if we put this option into motion, which the rapporteurs have prepared here, we will greatly damage the unity of the european union. if there are countries that will be voted on in the decision-making on the key agenda of the european council, then we must expect that there will be growing frustration among the people in those countries that the political forces there will abuse this position, this atmosphere in the fight against brussels, in the fight against european integration, and that will weaken europe's unity in the long run. in other words, i believe that strengthening the principle of qualified majority when certain countries are over-voted is detrimental to the unity of the european union in the long term. and that's why i didn't support this proposal.
the next item on the agenda is the discussion of the commission's statement on the international day for the elimination of violence against women (2023/2990 (rsp)).
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, dear honourable members, we mark this international day on 25 november annually as, unfortunately, violence against women and girls remains a pervasive violation of human rights in the european union and around the world. violence against women and girls remains one of the least prosecuted crimes, and it is a key barrier to progressing on women’s rights and to safeguarding the common values of our union as a whole. i thank this house and its members for being a strong ally in keeping the eradication of violence against women and girls high on the european union political agenda. since the adoption of the gender equality strategy in 2020, we have achieved significant progress in multiple areas of gender-based discrimination and equality, transforming our political commitments into meaningful actions. we remain inspired by the vision of a brighter future and present for women and girls in all their diversity, in particular those facing gender based and domestic violence. this year, the european union finally acceded to the istanbul convention, marking a major step forward in making europe a safer place for women and girls. the european union is now bound by ambitious and comprehensive standards to prevent and combat gender-based violence, in judicial cooperation in criminal matters, asylum and non-refoulement, and in its public administration. but there is no single solution to such a deeply ingrained systemic issue. this is why our legislative proposal on combating violence against women and domestic violence is so important. i would like to thank this house for your invaluable support on this important matter. the proposal includes the criminalisation of certain offences amounting to violence against women, such as rape based on a lack of consent, female genital mutilation, the non-consensual sharing of intimate and manipulated material, as well as cyber harassment and cyber incitement to violence or hatred. additionally, the proposal guarantees the protection of victims of violence against women and domestic violence, as well as their support and access to justice and the prevention of such forms of violence. compared to the istanbul convention, it implements new obligations of the european union following its accession to that convention in judicial cooperation in criminal matters. as things stand, time is running out to adopt this directive before the upcoming european elections. we must keep pushing for progress. the european commission very much appreciates the efforts of the european parliament negotiating team. let me notably thank the two co-rapporteurs, evin incir and frances fitzgerald, to ensure an outcome matching the ambition of our proposal. looking ahead, we are working on a recommendation to prevent and combat harmful practices against women and girls, as announced in our gender equality strategy. with this recommendation, we intend to encourage member states to take action to address female genital mutilation, forced and child marriages, honour-related violence, forced abortion and forced sterilisation and other harmful practices that disproportionately affect women and girls. on 29 and 30 november, the commission will hold the first meeting of the newly established european network on the prevention of gender-based and domestic violence, which will bring together member state experts and key stakeholders to explore emerging issues and discuss new practices. the role of men and boys in the prevention of gender-based and domestic violence is key and will be a key focus of the network. in the g7 setting, the european union contributes to the strengthening of the accountability of the leaders’ political commitment and to ensure gender mainstreaming is a cross-sectoral principle in the g7’s activities. we also continue to be fully engaged as co-leader of the generation equality forum, action coalition on gender-based violence and un women. on the international day, the commission is joining the un’s global campaign to end violence against women. the european union expresses its unwavering support for women and girls who have suffered from violence as victims and survivors, and we condemn the use of sexual and gender-based violence as a weapon of war. we stand with our partners, civil society, women’s rights groups and human rights defenders in their call for justice and accountability.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, we once again commemorate the international day for the elimination of violence against women in the european parliament. i wish we didn't have to. i wish this debate would not have to be repeated year after year. but as long as women continue to be attacked, assaulted, murdered for the mere fact of being women, here we will be uniting our voices, saving our differences, with a clear and unison message of support and solidarity with women who are victims of gender-based violence and with their families, and especially with their children, who are often orphaned by their mothers because of the male terrorism of their own parents. violence against women does not distinguish between social classes, cultural levels, geographical origin, or religious creeds. it occurs in all segments of society and in all places in the world. even in our civilized europe, although some claim to deny it, where one in three women will suffer some form of violence at some point in their lives. we have taken an important step forward. the european union has finally ratified the istanbul convention, but we are still making progress. we have to keep moving forward. we have a proposal for a directive on combating violence against women on the table. i would also like to call on you, council members, to make an effort to understand what we are doing here in this house so that this directive can come true. it's just a yes. sex without consent is rape. this has to appear and be integrated into the directive. and sexually exploiting a woman is not only selling her body, it's also forcing her to have sex without her consent. we must not miss this opportunity to have a directive that is useful in defending and protecting all women who suffer gender-based violence. we must not leave all of them, including those who have been raped, out of this european coverage. i would like to recall our demand that gender-based violence be added to the list of crimes included in the treaty, which already includes trafficking in human beings and the sexual exploitation of women and children. mrs von der leyen picked up the glove at the beginning of her term and announced that she would make a proposal. but there is a proposal that is decaffeinated, which is not enough. we need a proposal that really includes hate crimes, but also includes gender-based violence, which is much more than a hate crime. it is the most widespread violation of human rights in the world and represents the most cruel exponent of inequality between men and women. only then can we have a common definition of gender-based violence that includes all forms of violence, which can be applied uniformly throughout the european union and which allows the persecution of the aggressors and the protection of victims in all european union countries so that crimes do not go unpunished. i end this speech by expressing our gratitude to all organizations working to defend women's rights, to all organizations working to protect women victims of gender-based violence, and by reminding all women that today they cannot listen to this debate because their lives have ended up in the hands of male terrorism.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, we are indeed meeting here one more year to discuss a terrible drama, which is violence against women and girls in the world and a cruel reality in our space in the european union. according to the latest data we have, 50 women die murdered every week in the european union. we knew we needed a directive to fight gender-based violence. i thought today, sincerely, that in this atrium all our speeches were to celebrate that we had this directive. we cannot do this because of a reality which must be denounced today in this parliament: because there is no political will in the council to move forward with this directive. everything is a setback. there's a big problem, which is to include rape in the list of crimes. and we have to. i want to be very clear today, too, here. this parliament will not approve a directive which does not consider rape as a crime within it. we will not do this for many reasons, but there is one very important one: because we would be defrauding millions of women in europe, millions of women's organizations who have been fighting for this directive for a long time and we cannot offer them an empty directive where member states will not change any of their legislation to protect them further, where they refuse to include violence and to make any changes to their internal regimes. we want a directive to protect women's lives and if we do not get it, the message to the council is clear: we will not say yes to that directive.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, not one more, ni una más, and then there is another one, and another one, and another one. like now in italy, where a woman was brutally murdered – the suspect her ex-partner, again. she is the 53rd case, just in italy, just this year. i don't know how you feel about this, but i’m fucking furious because men believe that their own, their girlfriends, their daughters, their sisters, that they are the ones who can take decisions over their lives, their freedom and their decisions. i believe that is so deeply rooted in patriarchal power systems. every man who cannot accept that their wife wants a divorce and chooses violence, every father who cannot accept that their daughter wants to choose freely what their job is going to be and chooses violence, every ex-partner who cannot accept that their girlfriend has a new partner and chooses violence, all of these men are part of a bigger patriarchal problem. our societies have to stand up to this violence. that is why the directive against gender-based violence is so urgently needed, including, of course, as the colleagues have said, a strong and comprehensive definition of rape. and let me tell you this: since i can remember, there have been a number of member states who continuously told us all the things that we cannot do from the european level when it comes to gender-based violence, with legal arguments that have been proven wrong. the debate around the istanbul convention clearly shows that if we in this parliament give up the first time a member state raises legal concerns, we will not get anywhere. but if we fight, we can make it. the eu is going to accede to the istanbul convention, a success, colleagues, of this parliament and the eu is also going to adopt a strong legislation against gender-based violence. and again, it will be because of the work done in this parliament, because we know that we owe this to the many victims of gender-based violence in europe and all the other women living in europe. we are going to continue this fight. we are not going to give up.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must give an adequate answer to the dramatic situation of violence against women. it is clear that current policies have failed to protect women effectively. the data shows us that insecurity has increased. in spain, 49 women were murdered by their partners and ex-spouses in 2022. in 2021, 202 143 rapists, 573 sex crimes in herd. in 2023, 1,205 rapists benefited from imprisonment or reduced sentences. it is a mistake to tackle violence against women based on gender ideology, as it reduces the problem to simple gender stereotypes, to a supposed heteropatriarchy that faces men and women, without delving into other causes, such as alcoholism, other addictions for example, pornography, hypersexualization, the frivolization of relationships or the influence of cultures that do not respect or despise women. in spain we have almost twenty years of experience with the most radical gender laws. some that don't look like those in any other country. and the result has been terrible. they have not fulfilled their supposed job of protecting women and have undermined basic legal principles, such as equality before the law and the presumption of innocence. and we have something that doesn't happen in any other civilized country: exceptional courts. policies such as "solo sí es sí" or lack of action on uncontrolled immigration have shown to leave women more exposed to criminals and increase women's vulnerability. we must ask ourselves why spain, being one of the countries with the most radical gender laws, cannot stop violence? because the answer must put emphasis on other things, such as resources to protect those at risk, to ensure street safety, to guarantee assistance to all victims of violence, to value our social model of family and coexistence where equality and respect for women are achieved, and to control illegal immigration in our countries; resources to investigate and prosecute, to ensure that criminals serve their sentences and cannot go back to the streets to commit aggression. and of course, review the current laws trying to eliminate all ideological biases.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, i thought i was dead, said a french member of parliament, sandrine josso, who was unwittingly drugged by a senator to abuse her. and what was the reaction of the senator joël guerriau? his cat was dying. yes, yes, colleagues, you heard right, because his cat was dying, that would allow him to assault a woman. but what sense of impunity must be achieved to dare to defend itself in this way? often, the aggressors take advantage of a power relationship. it's the radio host sébastien cauet, accused of rape, or the famous real estate agent stéphane plaza, prosecuted for violence. but these attacks and this sense of impunity are not just about celebrities. they are ubiquitous and affect all women. predators are everywhere: on the street, in our homes, at work or in private, from unwarranted remarks to beaten, to repeated harassment to raped bodies. how many of us here have not already been subjected to one of these attacks? i also note that all these debates on women's rights usually involve a few colleagues, and only women. it is the same pattern every time, every time the same difficulty for women to speak, every time the same impunity. but we're not going to let patriarchy win. while more than 100 000 rapes take place in the eu each year, france is blocking negotiations on a crucial text against sexual violence by excluding the definition of rape from european legislation. i want to repeat it here in this grandstand. unfortunately for emmanuel macron, sexual intercourse without consent is rape. sexual intercourse without consent is rape and must be included as such in european law. but it's simple, and we'll say as long as it takes: the women's body is not yours, and we're not going to agree.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the brutal murder of giulia cecchettin has deeply shaken the conscience of italy as to the seriousness of the sequence of femicide. julia was denied her right to live, her future. and she is not alone, because in italy, in my country, there have been over 100 women victims since the beginning of the year, of which over 80 have been killed in the family or in any other emotional setting. and yet, in the face of this situation, there are still several parties, including our country's government forces, who are revealing their inadequacy on the issue of women's civil rights. the league and the fratelli of italy here in the european parliament have not even supported the ratification of the istanbul convention. when we talk about violence against women, we are talking about a crime that remains one of the most serious human rights violations and the most widespread and impunity. it would be a grave mistake to think that this is an inevitable phenomenon: we must instead combat gender-based violence at a preventive level. we must implement fundamental prevention policies and strategies. every legislative, social and cultural action to assert and protect women's rights contributes to the fight of civilization for a safer and more equal future.
mr president, a year ago, in this same chamber, for the same international day for the elimination of violence against women, all hope was given. we were working to propose the first ever european law to combat violence against women and domestic violence. today, while seven women still die every day from their husbands, where are we? parliament and the representatives of the member states meeting in the council are in the process of negotiating. where parliament has been ambitious, member states are blocking or even backing down. france is one of them. the european parliament and the commission have proposed a clear definition of rape, of which 100,000 women are victims each year in the european union: sexual intercourse without consent is rape. the member states have not even tried to propose an alternative definition, they have simply removed the violation of the text, nor the common definition, nor the common sanction, nor the common protection. another example: parliament called for forced marriages to be punished throughout the european union. the member states are not willing to penalize them again. on shelters for women victims of violence, parliament wanted to increase their number by introducing a quota of accommodation per inhabitant. with this proposal, the number of seats in france would increase by almost 70%. one more step, but the council does not want to. on the basis of the measures taken to protect victims, parliament proposed technological tools such as electronic bracelets and high-risk phones, to be used by member states to monitor perpetrators of violence and ensure that they no longer approach their victims. this is a sensible proposal, but the council does not want it. finally, on sexual harassment at work, parliament called for the incrimination of these behaviours, which still affect too many women. the council also does not wish to include it in the text. the directive on combating violence against women cannot be a declaration of intent. it must take concrete measures to protect women who are victims. we cannot continue to debate here every year, in this house, on the occasion of international day, unless we act. enough with the words, it's time to act. so they say europe is not making progress. it is not europe, it is not parliament, it is the heads of state or government meeting in council who block and refuse to move forward because of a lack of political will. and no, we're not going to accept a discount bill.
mr president, on 4 august 2023, in cherbourg, omar n., already convicted without charge of sexual violence, including one of his twelve-year-old sisters, entered megane's home to beat and rape her with a sledgehammer. perforation of the colon, small intestine, peritoneum, diaphragm, pneumothorax, rib fractures and high risk of septic shock. the abuse was so severe that the medical staff were shocked and wept. on 14 october 2023, in argenteuil, samir b. entered the rooms of women aged 93 and 95 and sexually assaulted them. he was already known to the police for similar incidents, but was released 48 hours after the incident. both women died shortly after the violence. here are two pictures of the mosaic of everyday horrors that european women experience. one particular thing is that we're going through the horror stage. the attackers no longer want to just enjoy themselves, they want to destroy, and dirty. it's not a mixed story. what's different, what's common, is your cowardice. cowardice in not acknowledging that immigration has contributed greatly to the 170% increase in sexual violence in ten years. the culprits are these rapists, but the culprits are you. you see in immigration an electoral manna or a cheap labour force. you refuse to see the extent of the hatred of some and bring them to a great deal of laws, ngos and subsidies. you who encourage this submersion are responsible. so if you want violence against women to go down, have the courage to stop these gangreneous human flows of inhuman elements whose violence is not equal to their contempt for us women.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as every year we celebrate in this parliament the international day for the elimination of violence against women. every year we see that we have not made much progress and that the number of femicide cases is increasing rather than decreasing. however, many european countries have implemented provisions under the istanbul convention and have adopted bold legislation. the european directive will of course be a fundamental step forward in the fight against gender-based violence. but look at us, when we talk about gender-based violence, we do it in an empty halfway house where men talk very little. they don't express their anger, and if they do, they're too few to do it. beyond laws, beyond norms, we need a cultural revolution. when will we have men marching against gender-based violence in our streets? every cultural revolution begins with and at school: education courses on relationship and emotional life exist in some countries. i therefore ask the commission to think about how to make this system european, because unfortunately it is urgent to teach our children that possession, control, jealousy, this is not love, this is the legacy of a machismo culture that we all, men and women, must fight together.
mr president, we are discussing today the violence of the sexes in the shadow of the wars that are taking place in europe's wider neighbourhood and leaving behind hundreds of thousands of women, brutally abused, drowned and murdered, and mothers with their babies in their arms uprooted, without hope. we must be haunted by these images of shame. but also throughout the world and on our continent, of course, in peacetime, women are being abused every day with every form of violence, while incidents are increasing at alarming rates. the completion of european legislation, which we are proud of and which we must emphasize, including rape in the crimes of great importance, cannot alone control this terrible phenomenon that plagues our societies. we need new common european standards for effective combating violence. the commission has already adopted a resolution on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. with this recognition, this fact, we have a moral obligation to nurture the younger generations, starting with basic education, so that young people know from a very young age that all people, regardless of gender, have equal rights and obligations.
mr president, madam commissioner, rape, genital mutilation, physical violence, harassment, human trafficking, forced marriage before the age of 18 is what one in three women today must expect in their lives. these statistics are cold in the back. but these are not mere figures, they are the lives of mothers, sisters and daughters here in europe and elsewhere. every instance of violence is a tragedy that must be resolved and solved in europe. a woman should live without fear, not be silenced by fear. we strongly reject all forms of violence, whether sexual, physical, moral, economic, psychological, online or offline. i therefore call for collective action, for stricter policies and legislation to punish offenders, to protect and to take the voice of victims. shame must change its course: it must not be a slogan, it must be a reality. education is key: we must teach girls and boys respect for each other, consent from an early age. we will build a future free of violence and discrimination together, and that is part of the simone veil pact that we initiated within the renew group. yes, europe must become an example of zero tolerance for violence against women. after we've said it, let's act now!
mr president, issues related to the digitalisation of justice look merely technical at first sight, but they are highly political. i know we all agree this is about ensuring more efficient justice systems and a better access to justice for everyone. but as the european commission, the council, and a majority of this european parliament actively promote this digitalisation at all costs, we should not forget it can also have harmful impact on the fairness of criminal proceedings, as well as the rights guaranteed to suspects and accused persons. first of all, digital tools should be an exception and not the norm. using videoconference during a trial will never be equivalent with being physically present. then also, not everyone has equal access to digitalisation. when implementing these two new pieces of legislation, member states need to ensure people with learning difficulties, physical disability, children, and those who haven’t learned to use technologies can still enjoy their right to access justice.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
the minutes of the sitting will be submitted to parliament for its approval at the beginning of its next sitting. if there are no objections i shall forward forthwith the resolutions adopted at today’s sitting to the persons and bodies named in the resolutions.
the next part-session will take place from 11-14 december.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 23 november 2023.
today we mark five years since the horrific terror attack in strasbourg that claimed the lives of five innocent people and left dozens more injured. among the victims were two journalists working for eurofonica: bartosz niedzielski from poland and antonio megalizzi from italy. for their work in promoting the initiatives of the european parliament and for their heroism in successfully preventing the attacker from entering a place full of people in the centre of strasbourg, they will always be remembered in this house and beyond. (applause) dear colleagues, on 23 november, the lithuanian parliament awarded the european parliament the 2023 freedom prize of the republic of lithuania. since 2011, this freedom prize has rewarded those who significantly contribute to the defence of human rights and the promotion of international cooperation in eastern and central europe. with the freedom prize of lithuania, our institution is praised for our long-standing position in support of the self-determination of nations and democracy. i know that this house will live up to the responsibility and the legacy of this prize and i think i speak on all our behalf when we thank the lithuanian parliament for this honour. (applause)
dear colleagues, i have the sad duty to inform you of the death of our dear colleague michèle rivasi, which took place on 29 november 2023. michèle rivasi was an untiring activist for ecology: first in civil society, then in the french parliament, and then for the last fourteen years in the european parliament. michèle rivasi was a woman of commitment, a woman of struggle: for the protection of the environment, for health and for all europeans. she was a tireless and friendly person, a fighter for our fellow citizens, a woman committed to international development issues and passionate about africa. michèle rivasi was also a knowledgeable, normal woman and a distinguished biology teacher, a genuine and friendly person who will be missed in our congregation. on behalf of the european parliament, i extend my deepest condolences to the family of the deceased, the french parliamentary delegation and the green group/free european alliance. i now ask you to observe a minute of silence in memory of michèle rivasi. (the assembly stands up, observes a minute of silence)
madam president, bold, powerful, inspiring, strong, determined, iconoclastic, determined, such was michèle rivasi, whom many of you had the opportunity to meet, as you also met her inimitable, singular and very strong style. it was devastating to hear of his departure on 29 november last by his french colleagues and, i know, many of you. i thank you very much for the countless expressions of sympathy and love you show. his family was informed and very sensitive. the day in brussels, the day she left, we were watching a gathering with a number of you, at the exact time of this gathering, michelle should have been on the plane to tanzania to fight one of those battles she was familiar with. i would like to draw the conclusion that michèle spoke to many european citizens and citizens to whom we sometimes lose the habit of speaking: people who perceive the injustice and sometimes the brutality of multinational companies and institutions against their rights. and the way she had found to sublimate this anger was to stand by us, by your side, to defend the inalienable rights of this parliament to the executives, to the lobbyists, who can sometimes exert pressure on us. one of her colleagues, at the time of the collection, would pay a tribute to her that i thought was very beautiful and say, "if you want to pay tribute to michele, try doing something she asked you to do or something you think she would have wanted you to do for her. i think that's how we're going to keep michele alive, not just now, but the struggles she's been through.
on behalf of the band the left. the commission has already made a number of proposals for a new directive on the protection of the environment. almost 20,000 civilians have been killed by israeli bombs, the entire humanitarian system has collapsed, the united nations is talking about genocidal risk, and without the united states' veto, the un security council would have passed a resolution in favour of a permanent ceasefire. but here, the good news is that the united states is not represented. we must succeed where the united nations has failed and have a clear resolution passed to end this carnage, to call for a permanent ceasefire, to call for the entry of the international criminal court investigators into gaza, to suspend our association agreement with israel and to demand an immediate embargo on our arms supplies, to take sanctions against illegal settlers in the west bank. the commission has already adopted a resolution on the subject. the european union, if it wanted to, could use its leverage to intervene and no longer remain complicit. it's up to us.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, a year ago our parliament was overwhelmed by the qatargate scandal. on behalf of my group, i had requested the immediate creation of a commission of inquiry, which was refused. as the case progresses, it would have been essential to examine in detail the growing influence of lobbyists in parliament. another major scandal is the pfizergate, which has just been revived by the european ombudsman herself, who blames the media for not talking about it and who does not understand why we are not holding the commission and its president accountable for the content of its discussions with the ceo of pfizer about the negotiation of the colossal vaccine contracts, if not the obscure one. the ombudsman calls for transparency, and the commission is not doing anything about it. and we're not asking for anything. instead of making the whole earth a moral, let's start by sweeping our door. this is a fundamental question of the integrity and credibility of our institution. this deserves at least a broad debate, which i ask you to add to this last plenary session in 2023.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, the european elections are coming up, and some are taking the opportunity to advance their european agenda. this report is a second text which seeks to give the european union more power and reduce the influence of the member states, if not dominate them. the low turnout in previous elections should, however, be a warning sign. our citizens would be more likely to go to the polls if they felt that the european union was close to their concerns. they believe that the european union is the source or a large part of their problems. and this is not the last communication campaign by the european commission which should reconcile europeans with our institutions. at a cost of €18 million, the campaign leurope, c'est toi is not only difficult to understand, but, most importantly, it continues to be broadcast in france after 1 december 2023, the day the election campaign opens in france. it thus infringes article l52-1 (2) of the french electoral code, which provides that, from the first day of the sixth month preceding the month in which general elections are to be held, no campaign of promotion of the achievements or management of a community may be organised in the territory of the communities concerned by the vote. these posters refer to an official website, which itself links to various pages of the commission's website about the achievements of the european union, the green pact or repowereu, to name but a few, which clearly show some political bias. the same applies to the participation of the president of the european commission on 7 october 2023 at the european campus of the french presidential party renaissance. while the 2024 european elections were at the heart of the event, his presence evidently marked a direct support for the list that will support the renaissance party on 9 june. the neutrality imposed by its function is therefore heavily tainted. this report comes amidst a general hypocrisy, where the european commission itself is breaching the rules of ethics and electoral rules. this text will not increase voter turnout in any way, but will only aggravate the situation. the desire to establish a european superstate will amplify the disconnect between technocrats and the people. since 2010, almost 70% of french people are suspicious of the european union: do you want to continue to dig the gap? your plan is to dissolve the states by exposing our citizens to many dangers. in the face of this soulless european whole you are shaping, we will continue to embody a europe of proud and sovereign nations.
report for an opinion of the committee on budgets. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let us make it clear that the states have lost some of their tax sovereignty. it is now clear that europe must respond on a large scale to this challenge of the twentieth century. this is what we have done, for example, by imposing a solidarity contribution on the fossil energy giants, because there are tax bases that can no longer be found at national level alone without leaking revenue and activities to other countries. the reality is that nation-states can no longer tackle certain issues alone, whether in times of crisis or not. i am thinking of climate change, of digital giants, of financial transactions, of tax evasion and tax fraud. it is time to tackle these challenges without any taboos, because if there is a level of power capable of bringing more tax and social justice to the states, and especially in times of crisis, it is europe.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, one third of europeans are not hungry, and the 25% increase in food prices is not coming out of nowhere. even christine lagarde, president of the european central bank, acknowledges that more than half of inflation is due to increased margins. clearly, corporations, big corporations that are backing us up. people are sick of it. it's sickening that the complicit governments politely demand price cuts that never come. the european union is choosing this moment to reimpose austerity right now and is asking the states to cut the budget of our schools or hospitals, even though the solutions exist and you could support our amendments on taxing the super-profits and the super-rich and on blocking margins and prices today. how can you, my fellow workers, vote against and refuse to take back, as the great-grandfather peter said, those who have taken all the food in their plates and left the plates of others empty? the commission has already decided to take a decision on the basis of the information provided by the commission.
on behalf of the id group. - madam president, at last. finally, the european union realizes that the nuclear crusades were one of the commission's worst mistakes. at the same time, in france, emmanuel macron realized that his 2017 commitments, where he announced he wanted to drastically reduce the share of nuclear power in our electricity production, were economic suicide for france. while the french economic fabric is paying the heavy price of the abandonment of our nuclear industry by the state for years to satisfy the anti-nuclear campaigns of the european commission and germany, it is to be expected that this parliament will finally support the small modular nuclear reactor sector, where french start-ups are at the forefront. however, the report itself admits that in the race for small modular reactors, european confusion has led us to the second division: americans, chinese and russians have already taken a big step forward. it is obviously essential that investment and research for small modular reactors be integrated into the fair transition fund. more generally, we call for the complete end of the european union's hostility towards nuclear energy. for too long, the french suffered double punishment. they were net contributors to the eu budget and were the first to be penalized for european subsidies in the energy sector. support for small modular nuclear reactors is a first step in the right direction, but it will not be sufficient to ensure our energy independence. maintenance and investment in conventional nuclear power plants is needed more than ever in france and elsewhere.
madam president, in a few months you have seen two election warnings coming from the netherlands. first in april, with the victory of the citizen farmers' movement, the bbb, and more recently with the victory of geert wilders' pvv. this major shift, with the decisive defeat of frans timmermans, the promoter of your green pact, is interpreted as a disregard for your 'decrecinationist' policy. in france, a protest movement is currently taking hold in the agricultural world. where the dutch turned the flags in a sign of call for help, the french turned the signals at the entrance to the city. it's a way of saying that we're walking on our heads. you will have noticed, as you have come to parliament, that the entrance sign to the city of strasbourg, where we are sitting today, has been turned. our farmers are angry at the abuse of standards (rhythms, costs, etc.). what they condemn is the absence of mirror clauses in your free trade agreements which create unfair competition, an ecology that is not participatory but punitive, a logic not of improvement but of limitation and prohibition. you can't pretend like nothing happened.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr commissioner, the threat to our imports of gallium, the threat to our imports of germanium, the threat to our imports of graphite, the threat to our imports of rare earth oxides: these are examples of our european vulnerabilities, and it is time to end this dependence on critical raw materials with the adoption of this text, in order to diversify cooperation and to accompany our partners in achieving the objective of carbon neutrality. this is what makes europe special: to work together to meet global challenges. in order to bring third countries and european citizens into the union, we must explain, convince and be transparent. that is why we must debate the implementation of all these partnerships now. europe needs to get out of its dependency, but it must do so in a way that benefits everyone and is transparent. this is the european peculiarity, this is what we have defended, this is what must become reality.
mr president, commissioner, much has been said about what is not yet a rare earth or rare metal war, but is already a race for the necessary raw materials. i would like to stress four points which i consider essential. the first point is that the price is not enough. we are not in economic relations, market relations, competition: we are clearly in power relations, and to face them requires that the european union and the european nations know how to clearly state their priorities and to assert strength relations on the ground. the second point is the role of innovation. we must not be caught in situations where, for certain products and technologies, we would be overly dependent on a single country or supply zone. innovation can help us find alternatives. thirdly, a rarity that is not discussed is that of land. fertile, healthy land is becoming scarce. the restoration of nature is a priority in europe. finally, let us not be locked up by geopolitical interests that are not ours. let us not get caught up in wars that are not our own or conflicts that are not in our interests. only the interests of europe and the european nations must prevail.
mr president, the ecological transition will require large quantities of critical raw materials. the european union needs to be able to supply itself on its own soil and less dependent on third countries in view of social, environmental and human impacts. but this supply strategy must also be done in line with planetary boundaries. critical substances legislation offers interesting elements on mitigation of demand, recycling, circularity, but without really proposing new, more sober models and without questioning all-digital. the european union must not repeat the mistakes of the past by supporting a purely extractivist logic, both on its territory and internationally. the rights of indigenous peoples and local people must be respected, including the principle of prior, free and informed consent. the race for critical raw materials should not be an excuse to further endanger nature. unfortunately, in this final compromise, states reserve the possibility to mine in protected areas and to accelerate new mining projects in the name of the greater public interest. we will therefore be particularly vigilant in applying this text.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that the proposal for a regulation you are tabled is better than the text adopted in september 2023. some of the extremely binding objectives of the previous year have been revised downwards, which is a good thing, as there is no use in adopting non-applicable rules. ensuring the security of our supply of strategic materials is precisely what citizens expect from the european union. this is what i call a good europe, one that seeks to find solutions for our future industries, one that serves the major projects of collective interest. in the context of increasingly fierce global competition, we should not be ashamed to act in our interests. without ideology, we must now assume a clear support for our mining sector on the continent and overseas, with, for example, new caledonia nickel. we all know that the transition will require phenomenal amounts of metals. i prefer that they be european and, if not, that they respect our environmental and social standards.
in writing. the ability to obtain raw materials is essential for the economy of any country, including the european union as a whole, in particular for industry and the functioning of the internal market. there is a group of raw materials which are considered particularly important due to their high economic importance and the high risk of shortages. many of the essential raw materials play an important role and are being used in the new technology sector and will be in demand for decades to come, so it is necessary to take measures to mitigate this situation. in these circumstances, i would like to draw attention to the more efficient recovery of raw materials by improving recycling. this regulation should prevent and reduce the negative impact of critical raw materials on the environment and ensure a safe supply chain for critical raw materials, taking into account the fact that it facilitates the reuse, repair and processing of products. it should aim to improve the environmental performance of raw materials and to promote recycling activities by all economic operators at all stages of the product life cycle. this regulation should, accordingly, contribute to the transition to a circular economy and to the smooth functioning of the internal market, while ensuring a high level of environmental protection and respect for human and labour rights. this regulation should therefore reduce the negative impact of extractive and processing activities on human health and the environment and facilitate the practical application of the waste hierarchy.
in writing. an ambitious law on critical raw materials must allow for a turning point towards stronger industrial policies that safeguard our competitive position. it is strategically important that europe builds its own sustainable supply chain for critical raw materials, given the rapidly changing geopolitical context and the high dependence on third countries such as china. for example, europe produces less than 1% of lithium batteries, while we have just raised the targets for electric driving. the critical raw materials act is an important step forward for europe in strengthening its competitive position and reducing dependence on third countries, by promoting innovation throughout the value chain, reducing bureaucracy and better supporting strategic partnerships with third countries and smes. we also want to increase our efforts to research and develop alternative materials and to encourage more environmentally friendly mining and production methods. the legislation provides for economic incentives and a more stable and secure business framework for mining and recycling projects, with faster and simpler authorisation procedures. the european parliament wants to focus more on the production and scale-up of materials that can replace strategic raw materials. we need ambitious targets to encourage, for example, the extraction of more strategic raw materials from waste products.
the debate on the request for an oral reply to the commission on eu-taiwan trade and investment relations, submitted by sean kelly on behalf of the international trade commission (o000046/2023 - b9-0037/23) (2023/2829(rsp) is hereby followed.
author. – a uachtaráin, commissioner dombrovskis, this week’s resolution and oral question are based on an inter hearing from july, where we heard from a number of key stakeholders, including a member of the legislative yuan in taiwan, the director joanna sikorski from dg trade, as well as representatives of the business community. i would particularly like to highlight the work of mep iuliu winkler, who has been a very strong voice in the european parliament regarding taiwan and who cannot be here today to present the conclusions drawn in the resolution to be voted on tomorrow. iuliu has asked me to say the following a few words in his absence:‘there is a consensus across party lines within the parliament for bolstering trade and investment relations with taiwan. taiwan, situated at the heart of global supply chains, plays the pivotal role in ensuring the stability and efficiency of these networks, and recognising taiwan as a key ally holds an important position in the contemporary geopolitical landscape. our resolution underscores taiwan’s indispensable role in eu supply chains, emphasising its position as a member of the world trade organization. additionally, taiwan has proven itself to be a reliable and likeminded partner and it is our shared interest to strengthen these ties. i urge the commission to prioritise the establishment of the resilience against geo-economic shocks. a supply chain resilience agreement is not just desirable, it is strategically important. we must look at the next tangible steps that can be taken and, importantly, the timeline for their implementation. in a world that moves swiftly, our responses must match that pace. our resolution appropriately acknowledges the remarkable growth in eu taiwan trade, which reached a noteworthy eur 84.2 billion in 2022. taiwan’s significance in global supply chains should not be overstated. as we navigate the green and digital transitions, taiwan’s expertise in high tech goods, particularly semiconductors, becomes invaluable. the recently agreed commitment in the second trade and investment framework agreement represents a positive step forward. we must swiftly operationalise these commitments, addressing key trade issues such as offshore wind, market access for eu agricultural products, digital trade facilitation and security related aspects of trade and investment. moreover, we need to make progress in resolving barriers related to local content requirements. looking ahead, numerous opportunities for enhanced cooperation await us. foreign direct investment and the exchange of experiences in the high tech sector, particularly semiconductors and renewables, can significantly strengthen our resilience and supply chains. i encourage taiwan to actively contribute to the ambitious reform of the world trade organization, including the enhancement of its dispute settlement body. as we work towards this goal. i invite taiwan to consider joining the multi-party interim appeal arbitration agreement, demonstrating our commitment to a fair and effective global trade system. i commend taiwan’s commitments to aligning sanctions against russia and standing with ukraine in the face of aggression. this solidarity demonstrates the shared values that underpin our partnership. additionally, the annual eu investment forum in taiwan serves as a platform to encourage more bilateral investments in both directions, fostering economic growth and stability. the parliamentary dimension is essential in facilitating stronger trade and investment relations with taiwan. let us seize the opportunities before us, working together to build a resilient, mutually beneficial and enduring partnership.’ in conclusion, i would like to compliment again my colleague mep winkler, for his work on this resolution and indeed all the good work he has done in these areas for a number of years now. – go raibh maith agat iuliu agus go raibh maith agaibh a chairde. míle buíochas.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for these important questions on the trade and investment relationship with taiwan. so let me address them in turn. you first ask about room for improvement of our trade and investment relationship with taiwan and barriers to trade and investment. both the eu and taiwan are democratic, open and market-based economies with independent courts and institutions. barriers to trade and investment are therefore generally low. there are, however, two sectors in which european businesses have faced significant market access barriers. the first one is the offshore wind power sector, where we have concerns about taiwan’s policy of local content requirements for developers. the commission has therefore been asking taiwan to remove them. following our annual trade and investment dialogue in april 2023, the eu and taiwan held several consultations, both before and after publication of taiwan’s new draft rules on offshore wind power in september 2023. these new rules will likely be finalised before the end of the year, and we continue our dialogue in close cooperation with eu industry. the second concern relates to market access for agrifood products, in particular meat products. taiwan does not recognise eu zoning rules for disease control, so-called regionalisation. it leads to unnecessary extensive interruption of meat exports even for regions where diseases are not present. moreover, slow approval procedures for eu agricultural products means that there are currently over 30 pending market access applications from different eu member states. at this year’s trade and investment dialogue, taiwan agreed to launch a detailed process to resolve these issues in a comprehensive manner. your second question asked about the plan to deepen our trade and investment relationship with taiwan, and how we can boost our mutual resilience against geopolitical shocks. in 2022, the commission upgraded its annual trade consultations to a trade and investment dialogue, co-chaired by dg trade’s director-general and taiwan’s minister of economy. we expanded the scope of our discussions from traditional market access topics to cover also security related aspects of trade such as fdi screening, sanctions and export control of dual use goods. we also covered research and innovation, and we also have set up a dedicated dialogue on semiconductors. this year’s trade and investment dialogue took place on 28 april. in addition to dialogues with taiwan authorities, we have organised two major business events in taipei this year. the european innovation week and the european investment forum attracted large amounts of eu and taiwanese businesses. organising business-to-business events like this is a core part of boosting the resilience of both the eu and taiwanese economies. your third question concerns the possibility of exploring options for a resilient supply chain agreement between the eu and taiwan. here, first, i want to emphasise that our work on supply chains need to be results driven. we have thus developed several strands of work across the commission, focusing on supply chains with taiwan and involving a number of commission departments including dg trade, dg connect, dg grow, dg rtd, as well as the european external action service. i already mentioned a dedicated work stream on semiconductors. at this year’s trade and investment dialogue, we agreed to start discussions on own digital trade facilitation measures. moreover, at the industrial policy dialogue this summer, discussions focused on areas such as smes, internationalisation, robotics, artificial intelligence, industrial skills and research and innovation. on research and innovation, the commission has launched a series of initiatives to increase participation of taiwan in horizon europe. your final question asks about our envisaged timeline. as explained, we are in constant contact with taiwanese partners across all subject areas. the trade and investment dialogue and the european investment forum take place on a yearly basis, with intense contacts to follow up work in between. when it comes to specific work on market access issues, we expect to engage on eu zoning rules for animal diseases, regionalisation, in specific discussions with the relevant taiwanese authorities early next year. on local content requirements for offshore wind power investments, we will assess the final rules once adopted and measure the progress achieved. as i said, our expectation is to engage in more detail with taiwan to explore ways to remove these long-standing market access barriers. it is now up to taiwan to demonstrate that it is willing to accommodate our concerns, which would help strengthen our trade and investment relationships even further.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, mr dombrovskis, i also greet all the citizens who are visiting this parliament and are following us right now. i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr winkler, on the excellent work he has done and on the incorporation of many of our proposals. the international trade commission has undoubtedly shown a great deal of consensus on where we want our bilateral relations with taiwan to go, relations which are undoubtedly vital for our ecological and digital transition, given that, as is known, taiwan is a world leader in the production of semiconductors and electronic products. we are the fourth largest trading partner and the main source of foreign direct investment in taiwan, but our trade and investment volume is still small and has a wide margin for growth. taiwan has been a member of the world trade organization since 2002 and has signed bilateral trade and investment agreements with more than 30 countries, not including the european union, contrary to what this parliament and the socialists and democrats have been calling for. we support the negotiation of a bilateral investment agreement with taiwan and the work towards an agreement on resilient supply chains. but we also want to encourage cultural and educational exchanges, promote scientific and academic collaboration, facilitate civil society participation and taiwan's presence in international multilateral forums. i therefore ask mr dombrovskis: despite all that is being done, will you listen to the clear and firm voice of this parliament in our petitions?
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, let us look at taiwan: a democratic state, one that respects the rule of law, one that is committed to an international order based on rules, which aims at a green, sustainable and equitable transition for all. let us look at taiwan, a key state in a key region, a state that has almost half of world trade gone, a state that faces our systemic rivals, a state that is directly threatened and intimidated, precisely because it shares our values. let us look at taiwan, a country which supplies the vast majority of the electronic components needed for our double ecological and digital transition, a country which is looking to expand its investments abroad, particularly in europe. it is therefore clear that everything is in order to strengthen our trade and investment relations, and this european parliament has already expressed its wishes. but things are blocking, whereas the european commission is usually so quick and so inclined to want to increase trade agreements. i am glad that you have just mentioned respect for european standards, commissioner dombrovskis. so why such opposition? we are talking about sectoral advances. but when? why are we allowing other states to benefit from these future investments? the commissioner said that the relations of tomorrow are being built today. so yes, let's look at taiwan and not turn our backs on this state that only wants to work with us.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, after imposing the digital certificate of vaccination against covid-19, the european union is coming back through the door to interfere with the sovereign powers of the states health, in this case. the european health data area is a sign of brussels' ever-increasing desire to establish itself as a superstate in the face of european nations. do we really want the european union to take care of the health of europeans as it does of the rest, i.e. as a totalitarian hyperstructure? in addition to being part of the digital identity portfolio, this liberticide project will capture health data from europeans for microsoft. digital sovereignty is taking a hit, and with it your ability not to constantly submit to gafams and their predators. you are infringing the interests of european citizens, and worse, you are not preventing private actors such as banks or insurance companies from using our data. whatever the consent of europeans, they must do everything they can to be better controlled. we reject this libertarian drift, which is a violation of states and individuals. no, the european union is not an empire. no, the freedom of europeans is not negotiable. no, europe is not for sale in the united states.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must say that telecommunications has emerged in a crisis context, but not all activities could be done from home and not now can all activities be done from home. so i think the first thing to consider is that the working conditions are the same for those who work physically, and for those who can or want to work, but the key is to get along with the social partners and employers. if they have not understood, there is certainly still a subsidiarity in the government of that country and, ultimately, certainly the european commission to come as an arbiter if these things are not respected, because, after all, it is also important for the employer to have healthy people, not to replace those who are sick. the life of the citizen and the right to privacy must be ensured. the last thing i want to say is that unfortunately, there are still, you know, workers (you may have discussed this yourself) who want to work from home, but if they want to work from home, then they have to have these rights secured.
member of the commission. – mr president, well, listening to you, if ever the message of this parliament has been clear and very consensual, it is surely now on this important issue. now, i know that this parliament has always been committed to the idea of work-life balance, as the commission has been, as we have, by the way, a directive on work-life balance, and work-life balance is important for everybody. but, by the way, it is also important in companies, because in all companies where there is good work-life balance, we notice that productivity is higher, absenteeism is lower, and especially for people, physical and mental health are improved, and motivation, by the way to work, is also increasing. so it is a win-win, by the way, for everybody. but precisely in the digital world we are more and more in now with all the new ways of working, the right to disconnect is an indispensable element, an indispensable instrument of work-life balance, and that’s why there’s an obligation on europe to take care of people’s health and safety. that’s something which, since the beginning of the european union, has been a strong element of social policy in the european union to take care of people’s health. now, i know that some countries are ahead and have introduced the principle and the right to disconnect, but not all of them. so because not all of them have done it, let’s give a very strong message to all the workers in the european union that they have a right wherever they work, wherever they live, the right not to be a machine, not to be a robot, but to be a human being. and human beings have their limits as, by the way, even machines have their limits. so i think this is an obligation for the commission to follow up on a very, very intense and good work which has been done in this parliament, and time has passed. there was a discussion should we wait three years until the agreement which had been found, which was much more an informal agreement between social partners, will be implemented. three years have passed, and i am very disappointed that it was not possible between social partners to find an agreement for the reasons which have already been mentioned. this is very short sighted. also, on the side of those who have not been able to agree on something essential because many intelligent companies, many intelligent companies, they know that the right to disconnect has to be part of their human resource policy, because they understand the consequences of the absence of this right to disconnect. and as a lot of time has passed, and as there is a very strong consensus on this right, and all the work has been done, long negotiations have taken place, all the details have been studied, there is no room now for going back to stage number one. now we have to deliver. and as, by the way, social partners have told us, ‘well, the ball is now on your side’, not just the unions’ but also the employers have said, ‘now, commission take your responsibility’. and i am very clear – yes, the commission has to take its responsibility, and we have to put forward now swiftly – and i insist very much on swiftly – a proposal which is based, which will be based, which will be inspired by your work, but also by the work which has been performed by social partners.
the debate is closed. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 171.
in writing. the resolution was adopted immediately after the pandemic and in a rapidly growing digital work environment. remote work spread rapidly under pandemic restrictions, but a significant proportion of workers continued to work remotely or hybridly afterwards. while the flexibility of remote work offers opportunities, it has become a challenge to work-life balance as the boundaries between work and personal life become less clear, there is no clear separation from working hours. we have been struggling for a long time until we adopted the work-family compatibility directive, which is particularly important for women raising children, and we need to set very clear principles and rules for remote work. i therefore urge the commission to submit a proposal as soon as possible, which would clearly lay down rules for remote work in order to ensure clarity and avoid cases of abuse.
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic has fundamentally changed the way we work. during the confinement, one in three working people started working from home. however, many suffer negative side effects such as isolation, fatigue, depression, exhaustion, and muscle or eye diseases years later. studies show that people who regularly work from home are twice as likely to work more than the maximum 48 hours per week laid down by union legislation. in 2021, the s&d group led the parliament's petition for a right to disconnect directive that would allow workers to refrain from performing work-related tasks, activities and electronic communications, such as phone calls, emails and other messages, outside their working hours, including rest periods, without facing adverse consequences. the commission has already made a commitment to submit a proposal for a directive without further delay.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i am really delighted to address you today to present this very important set of measures that the commission has just adopted today. the european union is built on open democracy. for our vibrant democracies to function, citizens need to be able to freely express their views and participate in democratic life. this is what we have been pushing for with the 2020 european democracy action plan. we have already come a long way since then, putting forward several flagship initiatives which help strengthen democratic resilience by promoting election integrity, protecting media freedom and strengthening the fight against disinformation. this commission has proactively defended, and will continue to do so, the rule of law and fundamental rights in the eu. all these initiatives are centred around individual rights and freedoms, and around transparency and accountability. i am honoured to present to you today the defence of democracy package. the package is composed of several elements that aim to advance in our efforts in ensuring strong and resilient democracies. it centres on a proposal for harmonised rules to ensure a common high level of transparency and democratic accountability of interests’ representation on behalf of third countries when they are used to influence our political debates and decision-making processes. interest representation activities are increasingly used by third country governments in order to promote their own policy objectives, and some member states are already legislating in this area – and the geopolitical context will likely lead more member states to do so. when preparing our proposal, we have extensively consulted with member state authorities, civil society and other relevant stakeholders. as i have announced previously, the proposal is also accompanied by a fully-fledged impact assessment. so what is covered by the proposal? the proposal covers interest representation activities – that is, activities with an objective of influencing the development or formulation of policy, legislation or decision-making processes in the eu when they are carried out on behalf of all third countries, governments and their proxies. it does not apply to an entity merely because it receives foreign funding, since there must always be a link between the funding and the interest representation activity carried out. the proposal does not ban or prohibit any conduct. it simply requires that certain activities are carried out transparently. so what are the key requirements? first, interest representatives – lobbyists, for example – would be required to register in national registers and provide information on themselves, the activities conducted and the third countries on whose behalf they act. second, entities would be required to keep relevant records, including on the identity of the third country on behalf of which they are carrying out the interest representation activity. and finally, entities carrying out interest representation would have to provide their registration number when entering into direct contact with public officials. how do we safeguard fundamental rights by this proposal? we are introducing proportionate rules – safeguards to avoid registration requirements being misused to limit fundamental rights, such as the freedom of expression or of association, or to unduly restrict the civic space. the directive does not prohibit nor limit any activity. a comprehensive system of safeguards has been embedded in the design of the directive. in particular, there is a requirement to ensure that the information in the national registers is presented in a neutral and factual way. inclusion in the register should therefore not result in any negative labelling or stigmatisation. the authorities supervising registered entities would need to be independent and their powers would be clearly spelled out in the directive. any sanctions would be limited to administrative fines. criminal sanctions are explicitly excluded. finally, the full harmonisation under the proposal prevents member states from maintaining or introducing additional requirements or potentially repressive national rules and practices when it comes to the transparency of third country interest representation. overall, the measures are the result of a very careful balance, which at the same time ensures transparency of interest representation activities carried out on behalf of third countries while also fully respecting fundamental rights, including freedom of association. honourable members, the directive is accompanied by two recommendations, one on elections. it supports high voter turnout, inclusive participation and transparency. it also addresses the cybersecurity of election-related technology and infrastructure and proposes measures to minimise risks of interference from third countries. a free and fair democratic debate relies on legality and fair play. this is why we promote election pledges that go beyond the existing law. the recommendation stresses that surveillance tools should never be used to interfere with the democratic debate and deploying such tools to target political actors and journalists for political gain is unacceptable. it also provides practical solutions to various issues, risks and threats that may arise in the context building on good practices identified in our exchanges with member states. these measures can be useful as a kind of checklist for all the coming elections, so we recommend ways to encourage member states to develop a structured approach to promote the engagement and effective participation of citizens and civil society organisations in public policy-making processes. we also adopted today the recommendation on civic engagement. but i will stop here and my colleague dubravka šuica will explain to you what i missed and also this specific recommendation.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, dear members, as vice-president jourová has said, this is a diverse and rich package which aims to strengthen and defend our democracy from threats wherever they may come from. she has spoken to you about two aspects of this package, while i will present how we are working together to strengthen the resilience of our democracy from within. i was not born in a democracy, as all of you know. throughout my political life as mayor, as a national politician, to when i was a member of this parliament, i have fought hard to build democratic resilience. i did not have the privilege to live in a democracy, so it is hard to believe today that in 2023 we still need to defend and protect our democracies. but this is the reality we are living in, and this is why i am firm that we will not sacrifice our identity or our open, transparent democracy for anybody. authoritarians thrive on a closed society. the european union does not. this package keeps our open society open. but openness cannot mean that we are vulnerable or weak, and a crucial aspect of that is achieved by creating a space for engagement and participation of citizens and civil society organisations in public policymaking processes. we have a unique european public space which complements the national and local contexts within which citizens are active. we are providing a robust framework to encourage member states to reach out to citizens in innovative ways. we provide standards and concrete guidance on how this can be done. we insist on four points: clear and accessible rules of citizens’ engagement; second, on ensuring inclusiveness and widest possible participation of citizens; third, developing media literacy and critical thinking from an early age; and the fourth, providing feedback to citizens. this recommendation builds on the major and unique exercise that was the conference on the future of europe and its follow-up. it includes european citizens’ panels that we have embedded into our processes. we are not asking member states to do something we have not done ourselves. at the conference, citizens asked for greater participation in their democracy. so besides organising citizens’ panels, the commission has also launched the child participation platform and the jrc competence centre on deliberative democracy. we are approaching elections at the european level, as all of you know, and also in some member states, elections where many new young voters will participate for the first time. we need those elections to be robust, but we also need to ensure that citizens are engaged in the time between elections. this tool protects our democracy. it can only be effective if all european citizens feel that they are part of the policymaking and directly affecting their lives, that they are listened to. citizens must be able to feel and see that their democracy delivers to them. authoritarians try to undermine democracy at its roots, and we are protecting these roots by offering this democracy defence package.
on behalf of the epp group. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment is therefore not intended to be a basis for the adoption of a directive on the protection of the environment. it is essential to protect and strengthen european democracies. we therefore welcome the commission's proposals in this regard. it must be clear to all european citizens that we are deeply committed to defending our democracy. with just a few months to go before the 2024 european elections, we cannot allow foreign interference and interference, nefarious and malign misinformation, and radicalization and polarization to bear fruit in the union. this package of measures aims precisely to respond to situations which have already caused us enormous damage. i remember the case of the brexit referendum or the so-called catalan referendum. i remember the various attempts of russia by putin, iran by the bigots or china by xi jinping, which have played a role in weakening what we value most, which is freedom of expression and freedom of opinion. these proposals must protect the union's electoral systems, but also the media and their pluralism, non-governmental organisations and their work, civil society in general and the role of citizens and their organisations in democratic life. non-governmental organisations, citizens' organisations do not have the same capacity to resist undue influence from third parties and therefore it is also essential to protect democracy by protecting those entities that promote citizen participation. this is always with a clear notion that we cannot replace representative democracy with direct democracy. it is time and time and here i end fighting the trojans of democracy and the rule of law. this is what this package is intended to do and we therefore hope that it will have a positive effect.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, democracy is neither natural nor eternal, it is a political project that will be extinguished if not strongly defended, a fragile historical construction that will collapse if not cultivated. for too long, our lazy elites have been making democracy a weakness and europe a weakness. as war has returned to our lives, as authoritarian empires find themselves in the very heart of our cities increasingly relaying, the time has come to put an end to this criminal naivety. we have been calling for strong measures together with the parliament's special committee on foreign interference for months and years. this package for the defence of democracy is undoubtedly a step in the right direction. the commission's proposal for a directive does not prohibit anything, it merely imposes transparency. excuse me, but that's the basic basis. finally, we must know who is financing whom in our public debate, and the organisations that accept money from the enemies of open society must accept it before the europeans. russia, china, qatar and others must understand that our democracies are not supermarkets where you come to shop. we're at a crossroads. it's not enough to be a normal democrat. we need to be fighting democrats.
madam president, it is positive that the commission is preparing proposals to increase the resilience of the union to the interference of third states, but to ignore that the resilience of democracy in the union begins here in our country would be to lie to ourselves. the union must also do its duty to ensure that our democracy can function. first, it must improve transparency and anti-corruption measures. as we have seen with the qatargate, for example, opaque procedures not only undermine democratic quality, but they are also used by third states to interfere in the deliberations of the union. secondly, we must ensure that the union effectively protects fundamental rights. to give a few examples, the fact that several member states use spyware such as pegasus and do not intend to leave constitutes an attack on democracy in the european union. the fact that several member states impose restrictions on freedom of expression under various pretexts also constitutes an attack on democracy in the european union. wherever they are, their judicial system distorts the criminal code for political purposes, thus violating the fundamental values and principles of the union. this is also an attack on democracy in the european union. let us guard against external interference, but also against internal threats.
madam president, madam commissioner, thank you for the proposal for this legislation, because democracy is one of the greatest values we have ever had in our lives for those of us here and who are discussing it. authoritarian regimes are afraid of democracy, so they try to destroy it, to disrupt it. they're trying to get the most out of the sand in a functioning community and influence what we're trying to promote here in a democracy. we see it in a number of states. china, russia, iran, qatar, and others are trying to influence decision-making within the european union. and we must not close our eyes to these states, but rather, we must begin to defend ourselves effectively. our political future, i mean the political future of the european union, must not be decided by some dictatorial regime, but must be decided by us europeans who live here. that's why we're defending democracy, because it's hard to survive on its own. whoever sleeps in a democracy will wake up one day in a dictatorial regime.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. our democracy is under attack. in ukraine, the bombs are falling all the time. but today, war as we know it is more than raw materials and bullets. hackers try every minute to destroy critical infrastructure like hospitals, energy, water, etc. the russians, yes, they spread lies around the clock in the eu member states. and to make it clear, qatargate revealed that foreign states are trying to buy influence in the eu. if our democracy is not to be bled by hybrid attacks, we must defend and strengthen our defenses. the commission's latest development, the defence package for democracy, is a first step. we recognize that, but it's definitely not enough. we must be much better at fighting disinformation, cyberattacks, corruption, etc. together. fortunately, we are well on our way to cyber, but defence and security policy must be at the top of the agenda both now and after the next european parliament election. 2024 will be the year when security and safety are the key words. let's fight for it.
madam president, in a failing european democracy, with tragic backsliding of rule of law in hungary and authoritarian threats coming from inside and outside, the defence of democracy is a hugely important topic, one that requires a carefully considered proposal in the light of all the challenges: malicious interference in our electoral processes; disinformation from chinese, russian, and other actors; the use of spyware against opposition candidates; the increasing criminalisation of civil society by politicians; and the numerous attacks against journalists. like others in this house, i have spent this mandate fighting to protect democracy and fundamental rights with the help of civil society throughout. civil society is instrumental in safeguarding eu values, so we need to address the lack of transparency requirements for interest representatives, but without endangering the work of ngos. the foreign agents aspect in this package risks so much to sabotage the work of civil society. it could even play into the hands of those who are already looking to target civil society at any cost, instead of addressing the real democratic flaws.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, hamas' islamist terrorism has once again demonstrated its barbarity. women, children, the elderly, hostages: none of the moral barriers that constitute our common humanity has been met in the diabolical fury of hamas. the israeli society is permanently traumatized by this. since then, the israeli government has pursued the goal of destroying hamas. we can only share this project and regret that the european union, like france, refuses to open its eyes to the existential danger that all movements of the muslim brotherhood pose everywhere. if we acknowledge this danger, europeans would be more credible partners in helping to restore peace. today, the israelis consider us to have been naive towards hamas, and the neighboring states consider us to be doing nothing to disrupt the intolerable cohort of civilian casualties in gaza. peace must return to the holy land. the war must be a sure way to spare lebanon, which is already in danger of being blown up. in addition, as christmas approaches, i express my deepest friendship to the christian communities in gaza and the west bank, which must be protected. the voice of diplomacy must prevail everywhere. france's position is well known and consistent: a two-state solution, the consolidation of a palestinian authority, respect for the 1967 lines with mutually agreed territorial exchanges. israel has a right to security. palestine has the right to respect international law. not all who deviate from this balance are seeking peace.
mr president, for us peace is not only a moral duty, it is also a necessity. we owe peace to israelis and palestinians, but we also owe it to our 27 peoples, since this war is being carried out in the union, which is hindering the necessary co-development of both shores of the mediterranean and which is fuelling the instability of our neighbourhoods. so it is no longer enough to hammer: two states. we can help impose this solution, because the development, trade and economy of israel and palestine depend largely on our agreements and support. our honour is to fight for values, but we are also the second largest economy in the world, a power that must defend the security, borders and interests of its citizens. because we don't want wars anymore, bloodshed, mothers and broken children, but we want peace, we dare to do it.
mr president, as a member of the committee on women's rights, i wanted to speak about the women's experience in this attack. yesterday morning, may golan, minister for the promotion of the status of women in israel, spoke for the first time in a french media outlet to testify to the abuses and sexual violence perpetrated on her fellow citizens by hamas terrorists. the description of the incidents is nightmarish: some women have had their ribs broken, others have had their breasts cut off or their genitals mutilated. he claims the videos documenting these acts are unbearable. in her speech, may golan spoke out against the total indifference of women's and human rights associations and organizations around the world. none of these institutions would have even dared to respond to his many requests. this silence is especially shameful. the fight against violence against women is a priority in the european parliament. we must therefore, here more than anywhere else, condemn with a stronger conviction all the abuse of these women and these young women. it is our duty to denounce these traumatic and barbaric acts. finally, we have all heard the poignant testimonies of the families of the hostages. i wanted to give them my full support. international cooperation must do everything possible to speed up the release of these hostages.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the tears that are being shed for horror, however horrible it may be, it is clear that everyone is considered to be of good faith. but there is the initial horror, the one of october 7, where women, children, the elderly were murdered, slaughtered, raped. the author: hamas. behind hamas is the muslim brotherhood. if we want peace, and we have the right to want peace, we need this corollary for everyone: courage. to say that hamas is a terrorist organization and decree here in this parliament that the muslim brotherhood is a terrorist organization and that those who give their hand are accomplices. it is at this price that we will finally have peace.
mr president, high representative/vice-president, in the early 2000s, i was a member of the board of the holocaust education trust in ireland, dedicated to the fight against antisemitism and learning the lessons of the past. since then, it’s a source of enormous sadness for me to see israel drift away from the principles that underpin the oslo accords, to see israel drift away from the path towards a two-state solution, and to see israel contribute to the erosion of its own constitutional balance, with protests on the streets of tel aviv and jerusalem. the events of 7 october of course deserve utter and unambiguous condemnation, including sexual violence. but we have arrived at a situation where israel’s need has become a moral code, separate and distinct from international humanitarian law and the rules of conflict. the irish government has been absolutely clear that there must be an immediate humanitarian ceasefire. i fully support this call. if the eu will not lead, member states must.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i ask you sincerely: what is the waiting period for a ceasefire? do we need more dead people? we already have 17,000. does it take twice as much? three more times? four times that? should the people of gaza starve any more? they are no longer receiving aid, and unrwa is no longer able to afford it. do we need more journalists killed? we already have 80. how many do you need? two times, three times, four times? the european commission has been working on a number of projects to improve the quality of life of the people of europe. what is the name of the violence that settlers in west bank and east jerusalem are doing without doing anything about? in the name of what are we allowing israel to defy international law so much? if europe believes in the two-state solution, it must act and has the means to do so, like the united states, by calling for sanctions against extremist settlers. freeze their property! europe must be brought into conformity with international law on products from the colonies. the icc's investigation must be supported. this is something we need to do urgently, right now.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr high representative, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen: dependence on russian gas, massive subsidies on made in usa, increased international competition, particularly from china... the changes in the world are striking our union hard. these crises directly affect the daily lives of our citizens and businesses, who face rising prices and increased risks of relocation or shortages. in an interconnected world like ours, a european strategy to protect our economy is therefore necessary. the answer to these challenges, my colleagues, can never be the backlash, the temptation to be populist, nationalist and isolated, as the extremists in this house would like us to believe. it must be european. it is by using the power of our internal market, by diversifying our international partnerships or by jointly supporting our strategic industries that we will be able to protect europeans. this strategy can only succeed under two conditions: we must be able to agree on a shared vision of economic security and we must be prepared to put the necessary financial resources into it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in may the first chinese airliner, the c919, made its first commercial flight using european technologies. we know this scenario well: the chinese regime decides to dominate a world market, and for that it creates a public company, in this case comac. this one is using our companies, which supply it with our technology, and nobody is worried about anything. after two decades, comac will have pulled europeans out of the chinese aviation market, before embarking on the european market, even threatening airbus. the french company safran supplies the engine for the c919. safran also, in partnership with comac, develops the aircraft's electrical circuit, transferring its technology to the chinese military aircraft in the meantime. it's always the same story of greed and stupidity, electric cars to nuclear power, solar panels to all strategic sectors. the same choice of short-term profit against the long-term european general interest. it's time to change this scenario that leads us to decline, to dependence, to vassalism. this is why this strategy for economic security is so important. it must be a turning point for the whole of europe.
mr president, dear commissioners, china is preparing for a war in asia, and as soon as president xi is optimistic enough that he will succeed with little costs, the middle empire will strike. and in such a scenario, europe will look at how to use its economic power, its leverage, similar to how we pressured russia after it started its war here in europe. but i doubt, dear colleagues, i very much doubt whether we are prepared for such a scenario. the fact is that china already both decoupled and de-risked from us, whereas we still let dependencies increase. so we need asap proposals for outbound investment screening to stop strategic industrial exposure in high-risk autocratic countries. we need european export controls on sensitive and strategic technologies, and far stronger investment in screening is necessary as we still see chinese takeovers of european strategic industries. if you, commissioner, come forward with such proposals, we will do anything we can to help you europeanise such approaches and help create the instruments we need for the next generation of conflict.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commissioner, the commissioner is here to speak. your honor! it is good that there is this debate, it is good that there are two vice-presidents of the european commission. in principle, we must support this european economic security strategy, but we must also draw up a comprehensive map of the threats and weaknesses to our european economic security. we need tools that will effectively protect both the scientific and industrial research process and the technological base. and here the high representative of the european commission is required to work closely with the member states, which i stress very strongly. there is also the need for close dialogue between the european union and the united states. and i'm glad i learned from the chairman that flexibility is 15 seconds, so i'm settled.
mr president, it is the practice of the bad guys to discourage those they encounter. this is exactly what the united states is doing by applying the principle of extraterritoriality of american law, that is, by applying its right to the whole planet. it's the western. all pretexts are good for bringing the companies they target under their jurisdiction, prosecuting and condemning them. under the pretext of legal moralization, it is actually about subjecting non-u.s. companies to u.s. rules and, in fact, to u.s. interests. it is also about weakening competitors, stealing their know-how and even destroying them legally and in the media to buy them back more easily. this extraterritoriality of us law is a real process of economic warfare, an act of legal piracy which many european companies, including french ones, suffer. this is evidenced by the organized looting of alstom, a french flower that was artificially trained in a criminal legal drama, to be picked up under unfair conditions by its american rival general electric. we cannot ignore this little-known but real threat to all our businesses and ultimately to our economies. if there is one level at which it is relevant to act, it is at european level. europe, the true europe, by its history, by its nature, cannot be satisfied with remaining in a position of vulnerability and vassal status. (the speaker refuses a question from marie-pierre vedrenne)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, despite the great progress made on international trade agreements, our union is still at a very high risk of fragmentation. we cannot allow member states to proceed in a widespread way. i think, for example, of my country, italy, which in 2019 signed a highly contested memorandum of understanding with beijing, which was presented at the time as a great success, despite the multiple calls from our union and many human rights defenders to avoid dangerous flights forward. the agreement, which was fortunately not renewed, has only exacerbated the balance of trade in italy, creating a liability of eur 41 billion for beijing and putting hundreds of strategic companies with irrecoverable know-how at risk. it would really be necessary to show a bath of humility on the part of the signatories of this agreement, noting very little geopolitical foresight, but even his apology would not suffice. it's time for those political figures who present themselves as saviors of the fatherland, except to flirt with the leaders of authoritarian countries, to make a decision: they're either with us or they're with them. there can be no room for ambiguity, otherwise the price of wrong choices will be paid by our citizens. this is the real autogol... (the president-in-office takes the floor from the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has not defended and does not defend our economic security. the noise of the technocrats in brussels has led us right into the wall, to ruin our industrial fabric and to help us escape our excellence and our vital forces. deployment, deindustrialization: globalist ideology has caused the misery and decline of peoples in europe. this was dramatically experienced in the covid-19 crisis, which was by no means a lesson. against all odds, the european union persists in its free trade policy, without borders, which is devastating to our food, industrial and energy sovereignty. it is on an ideological drift that it is committed to refusing russian gas, but has no qualms about negotiating with kazakhstan or the algerian military junta. the main dangers to our economic security are not in the congresses of the chinese communist party, the douma, or wall street; they are in brussels, which rejects protectionism and localism, which alone could guarantee our economic and industrial sovereignty. we cannot expect countries around the world to be offensive, competitive and defend their own interests. but we can blame the european union for not defending, for never having wanted to defend ours. (the speaker agrees to answer a question in blue card)
the question is "blue card". yes, i'm french. at least i can recognize your courage, compared to your other colleague, to accept this question first. (inaudible voices in the chamber from france jamet) ah, okay, you're expected somewhere else... you're still waiting, in fact! you are referring to the fact that the european union would not be up to the task. but what have you done since the beginning of the mandate to reform the content of trade agreements? what are you doing in concrete terms to have a genuine economic security strategy that meets our objectives of protection and sovereignty? - i'm not. as usual. you're here to manipulate fears, fears, but you're not bringing any solutions. words, words, always words, with you, but never deals to, just change things. it is unacceptable and always unacceptable!
the answer is "blue card". so, ma'am, i'm going to answer you very simply. you're coming out of language elements that actually allow you to exist again for 30, 40, 50 seconds, maybe an hour late, but maybe some still have the courage to listen. it is a bit of a big deal, because you see it in column lengths, in media passages, when you know very well that between the hunt rule and the agreement that exists here to systematically exclude all our applications for the posts of rapporteur, to submit amendments... (the president invites the speaker to conclude) you are the ones who block the system, you are the ones who prevent us from contributing and working, precisely, to change this europe.
colleague, unfortunately i had my attendance to something else. we have clear rules. blue card, 30 seconds question, 30 seconds answer. and you complained after 42 seconds. yes.
you had a lot more than a minute. the rules are clear: blue card 30 seconds question, 30 seconds answer. yeah, but i can't. i was just distracted, otherwise it wouldn't have taken that long.
mr president, i agree with commissioner borrell that we should have a vision of economic security for the european union because we need to reduce risks and provide a plan for where we want to go as the union. strengthening our competitiveness is not easy in a globally connected world where we are not only competing with our neighbors, but with everyone, and our industry, our jobs, we need to protect and most of all we need to preserve them. to have economic security, we need an economy that works. so we need to ensure energy supplies, we need to ensure cooperation so that we don't have to run out of energy. we need to secure supplies of raw materials so that our production and our industry can continue to function. our technological security is also a very important issue because we need to defend against attacks and theft of data, but also the personal data of our citizens. we must not be left to be merciless or unloved by third countries, and that is why unity is a force. i am very pleased that this parliament has adopted a position on how to defend itself against threats from third countries. the european union must work together to gain the status of a strong, reliable and predictable partner.
the commissioner and the president-in-office of the council have said that the protection of strategic sectors of our economy is actually another challenge which can only be adequately addressed at european level in the current context of increasing geopolitical rivalry. i would like to ask for special attention today to an essential part of that strategy which we all have in mind: the protection of critical infrastructure. because the security of infrastructure of strategic relevance to our economy is one of the basic elements of the resilience that the eu is clearly lacking today. in fact, the economic interests and defence challenges are actually going hand in hand. in the context of greater cooperation between the eu and nato especially in the name of resilience, prosperity and the safety of our citizens i really want to break the spine for a strategy that also looks to the cohesion between the two.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. the geopolitical challenges are greater than ever and it is obvious that we must adapt both economic and trade policies to them. we must therefore be more assertive, more autonomous and take action. the communication on economic security is therefore called upon and it is extremely important that we have it. but now that communication must be translated into initiatives and legislation. you referred to it, commissioner: the bdi screening and i hope that the new initiative will be more compelling, more enforced and therefore more efficient and therefore also an initiative on outgoing investments. secondly, i would like to emphasize the essential and important role in economic strategy of protecting and maintaining our critical infrastructure, such as our ports. ports are not only a logistics hub, a gateway, they are also a crucial link in the sustainable supply chains needed for the green transition. the reckless buying of ports, for example by china, must not happen again.
mr president, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are fully used. in the face of all these attacks and blackmail, europe must have a strong, coordinated and clear strategy. this has been the guiding principle of our action since the beginning of our mandate. let us continue our work with an ambitious and effective economic security strategy, which protects our companies from foreign predatory investors, which protects european investments outside our market, which ensures that our exports are not used against us. let us show that europe is, indeed, credible in protecting its interests. let us show that europe, yes, is shaping fair international rules. let us really show that europe remains an actor of tomorrow, not just an actor of yesterday.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission! your honor! this is a total war for russia, which involves not only turning the industry into war and delivering over twice as many tanks in a year as the west has supplied to ukraine. this is a total war, also in the field of propaganda, minds and mentality, since never before have cadet schools and officer schools in russia experienced such a siege as now. this is a total war also because it's about destroying ukraine, even when it comes to the ecosystem. the caterpillar is a very prominent symbol here. but it's not just her. of course, some pollution is obviously the result of war, but some of it is done in an absolutely intentional and planned manner. it seems very important to show our solidarity in this matter at a time when our societies are getting more and more tired of this war. there's nothing to hide. we are talking here about the societies of our region of europe, central and eastern europe and western europe. today, unity is all the more important.
blue-card question. – thank you for taking my question. there are actors that aid and abet russia’s war of aggression. what is your opinion on the question of whether we should also make those countries that aid and abet russia’s war of aggression responsible and also try to make them pay the cost?
mr. president, we have war on our borders. the invasion of ukraine is still wreaking havoc in the country and it is still affecting us. but we must send a very clear message. the european parliament has not forgotten ukraine. there is enormous human, material and environmental damage that the european union is committed to mitigating. the costs of reconstruction in ukraine are estimated at over eur 300 billion. we must use this catastrophe to articulate a sustainable reconstruction, guided by the values of the european union: equality, transparency, co-governance of municipalities and regions. the new european bauhaus is the project that best embodies these values. we must stop to achieve a sustainable, inclusive and beautiful future for ukrainian society after the war. the mechanism for ukraine has been a first step in its reconstruction. but the guilty russia have to pay for this ecocide. let's make this possible.
mr president, the bombs are still falling on ukraine, and we must continue to support the ukrainian people in the name of human rights, democracy and the european project itself without cease and desist. shame on those who today turn their backs on him. this war is tens of thousands of civilian casualties, thousands of lives destroyed, cities destroyed, orphaned children, raped women. behind this human devastation, it is the living conditions in ukraine that are deteriorating dramatically. burning forests, polluted rivers, land infested with mines, bombs and toxic buses 200,000 hectares contaminated for several generations perhaps , and of course the ecological bombardment of the kakhovka dam. so it is our responsibility as europeans to do everything we can to help ukraine achieve peace and rebuild itself. we must urgently carry this crime of ecocide, which we are now incorporating into our international law, so that we can all stand together to judge the crimes committed by vladimir putin in ukraine. without justice, there is no peace or security. so let's be up to history.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, the united states is our best ally, but also our worst competitor. this historic lesson, we should all know. in france, american industrial predation is constant. we have thus followed with consternation the purchase of the french fleur-de-lis exxelia by the american heico, without the intervention of emmanuel macron's government in repatriating the company with french capital. this ransom is just another episode of the american raid on european companies and elites. france, for example, is plundered without ever defending itself. in 2022, 131 french companies, 131 french companies considered sensitive, were bought out by foreign funds. the first of these, whose records are validated by the minister of finance, is not russia or china, but the united states, of course. with its law on inflation reduction, the united states of america is now posing a historic challenge to the european nations. while the european parliament has been praising washington for its longstanding interventions since joe biden's election, he is absolutely mocking our declarations of love. for him, it's america first, and he's right. joe biden knows that the european union is terrified as the end of us hegemony over the world draws near. he knows that in brussels uncle sam's friends are unable to take note of the emergence of a multipolar world where europeans can arbitrate between different power poles rather than always relying on him. a new world is waiting for us. let us help our nations to benefit from it instead of rejecting the inevitable.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr. high representative dear josep , you must know lenin's famous phrase: the capitalists will sell us the rope to hang them. this is an excellent summary of thirty years of european and american capitalism with the chinese communist regime. we have allowed this regime to accumulate our technologies and know-how until we become fully dependent on strategic sectors. take solar energy for example: just 15 years ago we had some of the leading solar industry in europe. today, almost all the panels are produced in china, mostly thanks to coal, massive subsidies and the reduction in slavery of the uyghurs. what happened? we have allowed chinese industrialists to rationalize our production because of completely unfair trade policies. and the sun is just one example. our dependence on beijing is such that we put our flag in our pocket when we address its leaders. this debate is not about a conflict between human rights and realist. it is now realistic to reduce our dependence on the chinese regime, realistic to repatriate our critical industries, realistic to filter chinese investment into europe, realistic to ban the products of slavery and impose on multinational companies the duty of corporate vigilance. our principles and our vital interests in china are coming together, so we must defend them with much greater conviction. it is not about morals, it is about politics.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, we can no longer stand by the circumvention of sanctions against russia and the repeated violations of human rights in xinjiang. we can no longer accept unfair competition from a chinese market closed to european companies. we cannot allow this systemic rival to take over our strategic infrastructure any longer. you said, mr president, that the summit between china and the european union could have been a framework for constructive discussions, with concrete action. instead, his failure underscores the urgent need to rethink our openness. the current survey of electric cars is a good thing, but it must not be the last. despite the fact that neither summits nor dialogues are working, the european union must continue to give itself the means, in particular through an effective and ambitious economic security strategy. only in a united europe will we achieve our objectives. only in a united europe will we protect our industries and ensure a fair play of trade with transparent and respected rules.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, in january 1964, by the voice of general de gaulle, france recognized china. on 31 january, mr de gaulle stated: 'it is clear that france must be able to hear china directly and also to make china hear. and why not discuss what might be fruitful in relations between the two peoples in favour of relations between the two states? the this gaullist view of our relations with china is undermined by the european union's blind adherence to the american crusade against beijing. this is particularly evident in the report we are discussing today. it says that the single china remains the principle of our relations, but everything is done to undermine this foreign policy principle. of course, we must protect ourselves from the chinese trading power. chinese exports alone account for only 15% of world trade. the french trade deficit with china is over 40 billion and the european union, mr borrell, you said, is 400 billion. this fact leads to two conclusions: without a serious policy of reindustrialisation, our gap with china will grow deeper and deeper. and it is not the policy of signing all-round free trade agreements that will help us re-industrialise. the other conclusion is that our diplomatic relationship with china will only be effective if it is based on realism. the european union of macron and von der leyen is aligned with the united states. it is therefore, in essence, hostile to realistic politics. only the europe of nations can establish the balanced partnership we need with china.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, you have dared to do this. mr verhofstadt and his friends dared to assert the need for a reform of the treaties, with a european commission transformed into a european executive by a central state, the end of the unanimous vote in the council and the principle of the primacy of eu law over national rights. it's no longer a coup d'état, but a coup by 27 states. these attempts have no popular legitimacy and impede the sovereignty of states. this is a sign of imperialism. france, a thousand-year-old country, will never submit to it. these federalist advances in the european union are rejected by the people, as the french did in 2005, before president sarkozy's resignation in 2007. the french will not follow the supranational model of your migration pact either. this immigration policy has just been sanctioned by the rejection of the law by french minister darmanin. the people can no longer stand this european technocracy. so let us give the power to the european people to come to a europe of cooperation between nations.
madam president, i'm going to tell you. i would like to ask the commissioner, the secretary of state, my colleagues, to give us a reason to believe that we are not going to do this. we must urgently strengthen our european budget to deal with all the crises that are coming to us - the migration crisis, the debt crisis, the competitiveness crisis - and, of course, for ukraine. ukraine, which could give up any hope of defeating russia in three weeks, three weeks, if we don't help it here and now, with or without orbán. that is why, mr secretary of state, we need to revise our budget. it is not a lure for the commission or the european parliament to want more money. this is a question of the european union's viability for the next four years. so we see the compromise papers go one after the other: 66 billion, then 36, 34, 26, and finally 22. you cut through migration by crossing your fingers so that civilians stop fleeing conflict. you're cutting off strategic investments in the hope that the gigabytes will grow on their own in our countryside. but above all, beyond these cuts, the states are putting a mortgage on europe's future. all analyses agree that europe's debt will be higher than expected. you cannot refer the search for a solution to future annual negotiations. you know exactly what's going to happen. what will happen is that the states will put the knife under the throat of the institutions every year to cut into european programmes, to make room for debt. but where is common sense? where is europe-power? mr. secretary of state, it's time for a surge. this friday, the heads of state or government will have to decide which europe they want in 2028. a europe in shambles or a europe that holds together. it's your responsibility.
madam president, i have many things to say about today’s debate, and in fact i had prepared a very nice one-minute speech in catalan. but again, i cannot speak in catalan in this chamber. (the speaker spoke in a non-official language)it turns out that spain had promised that the official status of catalan was going to be bolstered at the general affairs council of yesterday. but hey, spain broke its promise. no surprise really. we’re used to spain’s promises. and we’re used to the hypocrisy of the other member states. this union wants catalans in silence. but forget it! we will not shut up! (the speaker concluded in a non-official language)
as you know, mr ponsatí obiols, only official languages are the language of intervention. you know that's a rule in our rules.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, my first message is to the council. they have new revenue, new own resources, worth 40 billion euros a year, which gives rise to the european union that we all want and which you also proclaim: a strong, capable, geopolitical european union that fulfils its commitments. you decide! we've already decided. the european commission has already proposed. we have other recipes on the table, but this is an opportunity you shouldn't miss. and the council must make its commitments: to support ukraine, to pay the debt of recovery and resilience plans and to support strategic projects that contribute to the autonomy of the european union. what will step be like with these strategic projects? are you just defending them with proclamations or are you also going to give funding? it is that having a competitive europe and investing in it is not a cost, it is something that will bring future. it is something that will allow not only competitiveness but also territorial cohesion. it's up to you to decide. they have the solution, which is the new own resources. your action is urgent. the european union cannot wait any longer. stop proclaiming. get to the action.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, vladimir putin can smile today. he had made two bets in 2022: the first bet, which he completely lost, was the complete collapse of the ukrainian state. but the second bet, which was to believe that our european societies, that our european and western leaders were unable to provide a sustainable effort on the medium and long term, that bet, is being won. our weakness and our insolence are giving him reason. western military aid has never been so weak. financial aid is the hostage of corrupt leaders like orbán, or republican representatives in the us congress. this council is decisive for the future of ukraine and of our continent as a whole. why should we open these negotiations and why should we increase aid to ukraine? not just in solidarity with the ukrainian resistance, but for ourselves, for the future of our continent. president zelensky, at the beginning of the conflict, quoted hamlet's question, to be or not to be, and he said, we ukrainians have answered we want to be. the question now is for you europeans. well, that's the question we need to answer now: we want to be. (the speaker agrees to answer a question blue card)
blue-card answer. – i will stop to be weak. and that’s what we have done with orban for ages. we gave him the power to actually hold us hostages. so now it’s time for him to understand that if he blocks it, it’s not that we will not give him some candies, is that we will make sure that we break his power and we expel him. that’s what i will tell.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr president of the government, ladies and gentlemen, a presidency of the council at the end of its term of office is always a challenge. the expectations are high, and rightly so. this requires seriousness and perseverance. so my group and i have to start with that would have preferred that this beginning of the presidency was not polluted by the arrival on the european stage of national issues. this convention is regularly transformed into a half-room where the prime ministers speak. it's not new, it's a habit now. nevertheless, you know my group's commitment to the foundations of the rule of law, in particular the independence of the judiciary. i am saying that no national law can derogate from this and my group will therefore be attentive to the recommendations of the european commission on this subject. the spanish presidency's determination is, however, to be welcomed. we have wanted and we want results for our citizens, and you too! our colleagues, who were locked in a room for hours during the negotiations on artificial intelligence, can attest to this: we are the first continent to write the rules of the game. the reform of the electricity market was an absolute necessity to meet the inflation of energy prices. it is progressing, and i even believe that tonight we may have substantial progress to make known. it is essential to reach agreement on the subject which is acceptable to all. you mentioned a number of points in the commodities agreement we have reached, which is a key agreement in securing the supply of our economy. you have also maintained the path set by this parliament on the green transition, with agreements on the completion of the green pact, the restoration of nature, the prohibition of certain emissions dangerous to our health and, most recently, the ecological design of products. my group, however, asks mr sánchez to redouble his efforts to conclude two very important negotiations. first, the european pact on immigration and asylum, mentioned by the commission president, and the stability and growth pact. we, the european politicians of the 2020s, cannot repeat the incursions of the 2010s on these two subjects, because they would be reproached to us. we can show that europe can be united and effective on these issues. it is on these two issues that the image of europe and the legacy of your presidency are now being played. we still have work to do, this mandate is not yet complete. the european dossier must be completed in order to prepare our balance sheet. the presidency of the council will also leave its legacy on these two issues, which i hope will be completed soon.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is only one thing that can be said to make a statement, as has already been said, and i apologize for using the term that has been used, which is selfishness. but isn't this selfishness shared by everyone here? and how can we unite when each one is ultimately looking out for his own interests? we see, and it is very sad, that unfortunately there is only disunity in this european union, because there is, under the guise of some kind of dedication, only a desire to serve oneself and to serve one's own interests. the european union, in this respect, is a failure because unfortunately we have not been able, and it is very sad for the common good, to overcome our personal selfishness to achieve a universalist interest.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, imagine that you are 21 years old, you find your first job in a remote town, and you have to leave your parents' home. unfortunately for you, they are not able to help you financially, and housing is scarce and expensive. this is a trivial, too trivial story: 80% of 18-24 year olds and almost 40% of 25-29 year olds have to stay with their parents, even though access to independence is mainly through leaving family housing. not to mention these young people who have to live in unhealthy, too small, poorly isolated homes, and lack of family solutions. that is why, with my political group, we are making youth housing a priority. in our renew for youth pact, we call for the use of part of esf+ to create a housing assistance programme for young people, in order to cope with too high guarantees and the demand for strong guarantors. another aspect of the housing crisis that strikes me is that in recent years some cities have been calling on students not to come to their homes to study in erasmus because there are no longer any student housing available. how did we get here? within the framework of the european regional funds, a specific initiative should be put in place to support the construction and renovation of affordable student housing in university cities. while youth insecurity has increased sharply with the health crisis and inflation, we must enable young people to start their adult lives in the best conditions. having a place to live, a roof over your head, is the first of these conditions.
the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. in france, the number of young people who need food assistance has increased by 13% in one year and 39% of our young people are still living with their parents. for those who can't, it's misery. but what future are we preparing? we have a responsibility to give our young people the means to be self-sufficient in dignity. today, in france, environmentalist senator monique de marco is tabled with a bill to give young people between the ages of 18 and 25 a social safety net. the french system is aberrant: it offers no security, no net, nothing for this category. commissioner, allow europe to secure the right to housing by ending the financing of this sector, to ensure equality by banning unpaid traineeships, to extend the right to a minimum income for our young people. helping young people should not be a promise of love. this must be a bet on a dignified emancipation and a more democratic future in europe.
- mr. president, what are you doing? lack of affordable housing is a problem affecting more than 80 million europeans. despite the construction of new housing, the crisis persists, as it is built primarily for the market rather than for people. this business-failed tactic is short-sighted and has devastating consequences. thus, european city centres are increasingly becoming an investment opportunity for the wealthy rather than homes for their inhabitants. for a decent life, rent and housing costs should not exceed 30% of income. the precious thing we witness is now exacerbating the housing shortage, especially among young people. many, even those with average wages, may face extraordinary challenges today in finding suitable housing. the social dimension of the european union is and must remain a political priority for the social democrats. to solve this problem, we need to build public, nonprofit housing. we need more student housing, affordable first homes for young people, stricter housing regulation and a focused investment recovery. it's time for social housing to become a priority investment for all of us.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing an unprecedented social crisis for the spanish and european youth. young spaniards are emancipated from their families by the age of 30, four times the european average, and spend more than 59% of their wages on paying their rent. in the case of my city, barcelona, this amounts to 85%. meanwhile, real estate funds in the euro area have reached an astonishing one trillion euros, tripling the figure recorded in 2010. this situation is unsustainable and is only getting worse. i therefore ask the socialist group in this house, because i do not see anyone on the european right in this house right now, for a european plan based on three pillars. first, a greater boost to social housing construction by limiting its privatisation and improving the instruments for its financing. secondly, measures to combat speculation: increasing the transparency of the real estate markets, ending the granting of gold visas or reducing short-term resale are necessary steps. and thirdly, we must continue to make progress in the regulation of short-term rentals to ensure that our cities do not turn against their citizens. housing is a universal right and good that cannot be treated as another commodity. a whole generation is waiting for us. let's not let them down.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, first of all, i would like to say that this debate was an extremely important one, with important messages to young people across europe who are actually asking themselves questions and who are often suffering from the current situation, whether it is due to covid-19 or inflation. at times, some young people have even been through the financial crisis of a decade ago. we were talking about the time of the lost generation, the lost generation. we cannot accept that one lost generation is succeeded by another lost generation. i think it is important to put housing at the heart of these concerns because we are increasingly seeing that the housing issue is at the heart of the social issue, and that it is above all at the heart of the ability of people - young and younger - to live decently. for both young people and children, especially when i think of childhood insurance, housing is a central element. so europe can do a lot, but it cannot do everything. you always have to call him back. we can indeed encourage member states, as well as regions and cities, to implement more aggressive housing policies that take better account of the difficulties, but above all, we must admit, to build housing. we have now learned, i hope, at least the next lesson, that the real estate market will not solve all these problems for us. so we need local initiatives, public initiatives. new modalities, new solutions (which also come from the solidarity economy, for example) may be needed to develop this housing policy. but housing is a face of the coin. on the other hand, social policies and wage policies are also concerned, because young people often start off with very low wages and do not keep pace with developments, in particular in rent and housing prices. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the minimum wage for the work of the workers. we must also get young people out of minimum wages and offer them real prospects: quality jobs, with housing too, because young people who cannot live next to their jobs pose transport problems and so on, and therefore additional costs. finally, we must fight against the shortage of housing. the situation of a person in a precarious situation is not such that he or she cannot afford housing, especially on the current market. i therefore believe that a general approach is needed. we must now work with the member states. there is a council of ministers responsible for housing: their policies, initiatives and ideas must be linked to other aspects of social policy too, so that europe can create new momentum in this area and offer young people what many speakers have said: a somewhat safer, somewhat more positive future than the one they are very afraid of today.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thank you very much for this debate and for your contributions. the issues raised, i would like to reiterate, are and remain a priority of the council's work. i would like to remind you that it has been a priority during the spanish presidency of the council, in particular to continue all the work for the implementation of the enhanced youth guarantee. i can approve almost all the commissioner's ideas and indeed the work done during this year on the european semester has been very important, encouraging and advising member states to develop national strategies. i should like to remind you that conclusions have been adopted on the promotion of measures to improve access to housing for young people and that the council has also approved the possibility of housing aid for the roma minority. we must continue to create better opportunities for young people because investing in young people is investing in the future of europe. in these difficult times we must show determination and solidarity and provide the right political response. the debate today and our constant efforts reinforce our confidence that, despite the difficulties, we are all working towards a common goal.
the discussion is over. written declarations (article 171 of the regulation)
the next item on the agenda is the discussion of the council and commission statements on: one year after moroccogate and qatargate assessment of measures to enhance transparency and accountability in the european institutions (2023/3033(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one year after the qatargate, i would like to begin my speech by reiterating the council's firm commitment to building a more effective, responsible and transparent european union. these principles are crucial to guaranteeing and maintaining the confidence of european citizens in their institutions and should therefore guide all aspects of our daily work. the council has followed with great interest the efforts made by this house over the past year to increase its transparency and accountability. the council has also actively engaged with parliament and the other union institutions in discussions to reach agreement on the creation of an interinstitutional body on ethics. as you know, these interinstitutional talks began in july during the spanish presidency of the council and are well under way. we are working at a good pace, always on the basis of the commission proposal. the council is committed to an agreement respecting the institutional balance established by the treaties and the autonomy of decisionmaking of each institution. in order to ensure effectiveness, we also understand that this body must avoid duplication of work by existing bodies dealing with ethical issues, both at european union and national level. it is essential that the members of the body can act independently and pursue the general interest of the union. although the negotiations under way should not be advanced, we are confident that the other participating institutions and bodies of the union share the same principles and the council's commitment to bring the discussions to a positive conclusion as soon as possible.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, citizens can only trust the eu and its institutions if the principles of ethics and integrity are upheld by all european institutions and their member states and members. what came to light in what is called ‘qatargate’ is truly regrettable in that regard. at the same time, the competent law enforcement and public prosecution authorities of member states are investigating independently and trying to shed light on what happened. let me recall the existing systems to protect the eu institutions against illegal activities, which rely on both national and eu authorities and institutions. first: the creation of the european public prosecutor’s office at eu level. the important role of this european public prosecutor’s office and the european anti-fraud office, which can investigate serious breaches of professional duties of both staff and members of the institutions in full independence. i also want to mention the independent european ombudsman, who is regularly looking into ethical issues and provides advice and recommendation to the institutions. we have strong ethical rules in the treaties, in independent eu and national law, and internal rules of the eu institutions or advisory committees. it is first and foremost their responsibility to implement these rules and ensure compliance with the rules by their members and staff. it is up to each institution, but also each individual member, political party and political group to live up to their responsibilities, to prevent unethical behaviour, to deal with such behaviour and to work with external authorities in case of illegal or even criminal activities. the commission has considerably strengthened its internal rules and their application by a new code of conduct for commissioners from 2018. the president of the commission is responsible for the day-to-day implementation of the commission’s code of conduct. she is assisted in this task by the commission’s independent ethical committee, whose opinion she may seek on any ethical question related to the code of conduct for members of the european commission. to conclude on this point, i have to say that the commission has a robust ethics system and can deal with ethical issues properly. in addition, the commission pays constant high attention to the implementation of the regulation on eu officials and other agents, and follows up on any indication of a breach of rules by its staff, be it via its own investigative and disciplinary office or via olaf. the commission has recently strengthened its internal rules for third parties’ contributions to mission costs that may be accepted during missions, and sensitised its staff and commissioners. the commission invites all institutions covered by the staff regulations to use existing cooperation mechanisms, to examine room for sharing good practices, lessons learned and, where necessary, areas for further alignment of the rules for staff. as regards members, the commission has adopted its proposal for the creation of an interinstitutional ethics body that will aim to set common standards for the members of all eu institutions. this would, for the first time, create a forum to discuss the expected ethical behaviour of members of the institutions, setting common standards and creating a common ethical culture, which we need. the work on our proposal to establish an eu ethics body common to all institutions is progressing, and i am proud that all seven eu institutions and the two advisory committees are discussing the commission proposal. i think we can find an agreement on the commission proposal soon. my plea is for pragmatism, institutionally and legally sound work, and making best use of the tools we have, because we have all the tools – we just need to use them better and create a common, solid culture of ethics.
mr president, i would like to say that i welcome the debate on the year after the katargat and the measures that have been taken or are being discussed. i would like to begin by mentioning and stressing that parliament itself did not expect the commission to prepare a possible proposal, which the commissioner mentioned here, but a package of measures, the 14 points of the reform plan prepared by the president-in-office of the council, was adopted. and i think that is exactly how parliament should have reacted to this affair, to this case. of course, besides the self-regulatory rules i am talking about here, besides the 14 points, there is also a proposal on the table for a special ethical body which would be supranational, that is, would stand next to the european parliament and could, according to the powers conferred on it, interfere with the sphere of individual members and control their property and other confessions. we should certainly debate such an authority, but we should respect very sensibly the potential authority of such a body and we should respect very sensibly when such a body has to decide when to approach the principle of guilt and where, on the contrary, we should respect a certain autonomy, the autonomy of the legislators who get mandate from their constituents. so this is going to have to be discussed in detail.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam commissioner, as has been said, we have begun to respond to the various scandals which affected our institution last year by increasing transparency in our relations with the representatives of interests: private interests, but also, as we have seen, public interests, whether they are acting within the european union or outside. we have also tried to better define, identify and, above all, resolve cases of conflicts of interest between members, which has not always been the case in the past. finally, with the report of the inge commission, we have also tried to limit external interference on our work by foreign powers. finally, we tried to regulate relations with our former colleagues, particularly with regard to access to premises and attempts to influence our work. as you said, commissioner, one important step is missing, one we have taken: the creation of a european ethical authority independent of and outside our european institutions. you know that our parliament voted on an ambitious proposal two years ago, even before these scandals happened and they came to ruin our image. you know that we consider the commission proposal very insufficient at this stage. i know that interinstitutional discussions have begun and that the parliament team will have the opportunity to try to revisit this ambition further. we want to go further and for the benefit of all.
on behalf of the greens/efa group. one year after the qatargate, what is there to prevent corruption in the european institutions? - the council? - the commission? a code of conduct is not a tool for fighting corruption. the independent ethics body that was designed to frame, investigate and sanction corruption cases is a project that has so far disappeared. in parliament we have made great progress on transparency issues, particularly with the declaration of heritage. but the parliamentarians will continue to judge each other, and the members may be protecting each other, as they often are. it was impossible to create a structure with independent experts to study conflicts of interest cases in this house, and it was hardly possible to discuss the 5 000 euros we receive each month as overhead in addition to the budgets we already have. finally, it seems that it is still normal in the surrounding culture to accept lunches, travel abroad, places for football matches. but whenever a public policy decision is made, here or elsewhere, under the influence of private selfishness, it is democracy that is destroyed, it is the general interest that is lost, it is our common public money that is misappropriated. a healthy democracy is a democracy that is not complacent with corruption, whether it is big or small, whether it is rockabilly or daily.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, just one year ago the largest corruption scandal in the history of the european institutions broke out: the qatargate. members of parliament have sold themselves to a foreign state for ticket cases, and we are still hearing today that commissioner schinas was involved, as i pointed out a year ago. i remember each of you here, my fellow workers, coming to this forum and putting your hand on your heart saying, "nothing will ever be like before". the a year later, nothing has changed. the vast majority of the promised reforms have been buried. members can continue to be paid very well by lobbies or by states with impunity. the independent ethical authority you promised us from the beginning of your term of office, mrs jourová, is forgotten. corrupt people, my colleagues, are like vampires. they hate light. but opacity remains the absolute rule in all negotiations. i'm sorry for the nonsense, but i honestly believe you're kidding us. i'm not gonna let you go. and count on me, on us, on my political side, to continue to fight, to drive out all the lobbying and external interference from the european institutions, so that once and for all ethics prevails over money.
mr president, new revelations about the qatargate are being circulated in the press every day like a sad series. i learned that one of our colleagues, accused of corruption, tried to silence me because i was too closely interested in the fate of migrant workers in qatar. the good news is it failed. the bad news is that some people's behavior has cast suspicion on all of us. before the end of the trial, for the public, we're all guilty, we're all rotten. i would like to welcome the first steps taken by our parliament to increase our transparency and better protect our work. i am sure that the commission will be able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are fully used. i regret, as you know, commissioner, that a genuine independent european ethical authority has not yet been established. and i warn you, just months before the european elections: we must increase our vigilance and our defenses against foreign interference, which will increase in attempts to manipulate our election operations. (the speaker agrees to answer a question in blue card)
the question is "blue card". mrs loiseau, you have had a rather vibrant advocacy on the fight against external interference and the fight against corruption, but i am asking about the distance between words and actions. we have had many good statements following the corruption scandal in qatargate, but i can see that when it came to, for example, voting against the ban on supplementary remuneration so that meps, in addition to their very generous elected compensation, are not paid by lobbyists, you voted against. have you changed your mind or are you still defending the lobbyists?
the answer is "blue card". i would not have gone to this place because i was a member of the committee on interventions, a committee where your group was represented by a member who kept saying that this committee had no reason to be, who tabled amendments to remove any reference to russian interference in the work of this parliament. i wonder why, and as far as the accompanying work is concerned, i do not understand why you think that when you are a farmer and a member of the european parliament you are being sold to a lobby. you know our citizens very well.
the reaction is "blue card". it was interesting to hear from you, mrs. loiseau. i would remind all those who are outside the house that the salary of a member is more than eur 7 000 a month. i personally think that this is an indecent remuneration, completely disconnected from the reality and everyday life of the european citizens you are talking about. i will continue to advocate not only for the reduction of members' salaries but also for the prohibition of supplementary salaries. how will you justify that meps are paid fatly by lobbyists and businesses during elections when we are supposed to be making the law?
the reaction is "blue card". mrs aubry, it's true that we're paid far too much if we spend our time on strike picket lines in paris or disguising ourselves as rosie the riveter, it's true. but for those who work and push the law for the benefit of all europeans, every job deserves a salary.
mr president, there is something wrong with the european parliament. firstly, this is not a qatargate: our parliament is the heart of the scandal. there are a majority of honest people here among us, whatever the party. but what we learned is that in the political group that teaches the most lessons in the whole world, some had expressed their indignation. for some foreign powers, the tears of the left were paid off in cash, and the least we can say is that european socialists are experts in all sorts of lamentations. what has the european parliament done as a result of this? he used the scandal to extend the commission on mr glucksmann's interventions, who had managed to fail to realize that it was in his own group that this mafia system was born. since then, the revelations have been successive, particularly in politico, which does a real job. then, soon, parliament resumed its usual hallucinations. parliament claims to have been aware of foreign interference, but has refused to set up a special committee of inquiry into the qatargate proposed by our group, identity and democracy. parliament is attacking morocco, but it is allowing algeria to use our research groups to support the terrorists of the polisario front. you denounce qatar, but you keep making the same speech as doha about egypt, tunisia or syria. there is certainly something wrong with the european institutions, but nothing is really being done to change that. in six months' time this mandate will be over, the dust will be thrown under the carpet, you will have managed to stifle the case, and our parliament will have lost its credibility.
mr president, i am speaking because, following this debate on the qatari gate, i am surprised to hear our colleague mr engerer from the socialist group, who is attacking the epp, the european right, in the first place. i would just like to ask mr engerer, who has left the chamber in due course, a few questions: to what group did or did all the people mentioned today in the legal inquiry concerning the qatargate belong? the socialist group. what political party was the prime minister of portugal who had to resign last month for corruption? the socialist party. to which party belonged the prime minister of malta, under whose government a journalist was murdered for investigating too closely corruption cases involving him and his family? to the socialist party! what party is the prime minister of spain, who came this morning in outrageous attacks to try to justify the corruption by which he is trying to stay in power by abandoning the basic principles of the law of his own country in order to keep the fragile majority on which he is based? back to the socialist party. my colleagues, do not take moral lessons. let us ask the real questions together, and especially the question of ngos' transparency, which is still not being asked because your group opposes it. this is why our institutions are vulnerable today.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on a text which is absolutely essential for the rights of a number of families in europe and especially for the rights of a number of children. i am surprised to see one simple thing: the very idea of a motion for a resolution before any debate. the national assembly is clearly taking pleasure in the motions for rejection. this is a purely national remark. this is a preliminary motion for rejection without even discussing it. but basically, in the motion for rejection, the important word is rejection, it is simply rejection of what is not classical, what is not normal, what is not like the others. you're just rejecting those families that have two dads and two moms. i would like to say that we are proud, proud, with my political group, to be the ones to bring this text forward and to support it, to support the european commission in this proposal. we are proud to have made the european union a zone of freedom for lgbt people. we are proud to have fought against lgbt-free zones in poland and we are happy about this change, that the far right has finally been returned to its aims by polish voters. we are proud that this parliament is working to make it easier for these families to live tomorrow.
mr president, i would just like to point out that i have asked for the floor for a question on the blue card addressed to the previous speaker. you didn't give it to me, and i regret it. the debate is not a succession of interventions, so i cannot ask my question. i would like to remind you that the blue card questions are correct, so if you have a good reason for refusing me, i would like to know.
mr president, since there is no field in which the european union does not want to escape its totalitarian impulses, we are now dealing with the european parental certificate. these terrible terms give the impression that parenting depends more on administrative compliance than on nature itself. using the same arguments of apparent goodwill and practicality, each state shall have to recognise the filiation of a national of another member state, i.e. whatever the form of filiation. the devil is in the details, it is said, and the detail is big here: on the basis of hypothetical cases of children in legal insecurity, the commission invents distress situations to interfere with the family policy of the member states and impose its ideology. this certificate will require the parentage of same-sex couples who have used medically assisted procreation to be recognised, whereas some european countries have freely chosen not to recognise this kind of parentage. more serious, adoption after gpa will be recognised in practice, i.e. the hiring of a woman's womb to produce a contracted life and the planning of child abandonment from conception. a terrible regression, which is nothing but the marketing of human bodies. human rights, eu law, sovereignty of the states: nothing scares the compression of this commission of divine law. with this legislation, member states may be forced to recognise more rights for families formed outside their borders than for their own families, or even to recognise multilingualism. let us not be deceived: the european union is clearly on the offensive against poland and hungary, which have sovereignly made filiation a fundamental issue. it is always surprising that the european union is so energetically threatening and trapping its own members. the question is whether, in this and other matters, unity is less important than ideological victory, an ideology which too often works against women's and children's rights, but is the most vulnerable. (the speaker agrees to answer a question in blue card)
the answer is "blue card". no, i am not saying that at all. in this case, there is no cancellation of contracts drawn up in some countries. the text is intended to provoke an attack, an offensive, against countries which have freely and sovereignly chosen not to recognize certain unions and, above all, not to support and sponsor the gpa system, as is the case with this text.
the commissioner, the secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen, what is going on in slovakia? slovaks, pro-european in their hearts, see their new prime minister, robert fico, dismantle their institutions, built in pain and sweat. the guards of democracy prosecutors, judges, police, journalists are intimidated, removed from their posts. because they want to end impunity, those who want to punish the corrupt are threatened. threatened because they're spreading the truth. in considering the dissolution of the anti-corruption prosecutor's office in his country, robert fico is taking a new step, an unacceptable step for the democrats, an unacceptable step for this parliament, an unacceptable step for the european union. i call on your authority and your utmost firmness to put an end to what appears to be a slow-moving devolution of slovakia, which no pro-european will accept. for slovakia and for democracy.
the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. i would like to say that the commissioner has already made a number of proposals to the council and to the council. what has brought us prosperity, made peace possible and defended our freedom is cooperation. we live in a world where other forces on this planet are increasingly seeking confrontation. we must armed ourselves in the spirit of our values, our civilization and the security of future generations. and at the same time, we must not forget what we have learned from history, from the generations before us, about the value of cooperation. we need to seek cooperation, but from a position of strength. and if countries like russia or china have increased their defense budgets by 300 or even 600 percent in recent years and these defense budgets are actually not for defense, but for attack, then it's important that we invest in defense. and for another reason, it's important that we handle tax money sparingly, because european countries will cooperate in the defence investment programme. and it is also important because it enables innovation, also for the civil sector, also for jobs and opportunities for the next generations, for the whole economy, thus increasing europe's independence and competitiveness.
the commissioner has already said that the commission will be able to take action. as soon as possible. as soon as possible if i'm not mistaken. i still wonder today, at that time, what the member states did not understand in as soon as possible. one million munitions promised to the ukrainian resistance, 300,000 delivered. meanwhile, north korea alone is supplying 1 million bullets to russia, and putin is reorganizing its production capacity. we have a shrinking stockpile and we are struggling to produce. i welcome your personal efforts, i welcome the efforts of the commission, but it is clear that the member states are not following up, as if they had not understood the gravity of the moment. their leaders talk about war economy, but they do nothing. the instruments adopted this year are going in the right direction, but the funds allocated are ridiculous. in september the president of the european commission promised a new major programme. yes, but what means? when, at the heart of the pandemic, the european union allowed for group orders of vaccines, a colossal effort was made in common, and it worked. so why are we unable to respond to putin's war what we did in response to a virus? we need our industrial capacity more than ever and, above all, a mental revolution in the member states!
mrs president, we have been talking about this for months, and mrs von der leyen has been announcing it, but nothing has been done: neither the european defence and investment programme edip nor the accompanying strategy is ready. with war on our doorstep, with ukraine lacking in weapons and ammunition, we are left to wait, to wait and to worry. the ammunition plan is on its way, we're told. this course is not accelerated and is not necessarily taking place in ukraine because of the lack of priority for orders. the shopping couples encouraged by edirpa? it starts gently, gently, as if nothing was pressing. the final tranche of the european peace facility for ukraine? blocked by hungary. the project of a multiannual facility of 20 billion over five years to guarantee european security in kiev? buried without flowers or crowns. meanwhile, american aid is blocked in congress, and german aid is threatened by the budget crisis. the review of the cfp is not going well. i repeat, the war is on our doorstep, and donald trump is on the doorstep of the white house. it is not your fault, commissioner, but we are not saying that everything is fine when we are making a historic mistake.
member of the commission. madam president, mr secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for being here and for staying for the conclusion of this important debate. i will, however, share with you some important information about what you have said, and i subscribe to it in large part - not for everything, of course, but for the most part. so i thank you for staying. firstly, as you say, as you know, we have now made great strides in supporting this resolution towards a defence industry ambition. this is the essence of the edip strategy, and i really wish that i could count on you in the interactions we are having to conclude this work as quickly as possible, given the urgency you all mentioned during this debate. this is absolutely essential for our security, and it is also essential because of the situation in ukraine, and i would like to pause a second on this point. of course, you've been reminding each other, we made a commitment. i would like to remind you of the commitment which was made, including by myself, and i am used to fulfilling my commitments before this parliament when you followed the commission proposal with the asap programme. this commitment was to increase our industrial base of munitions production (155 mm, missiles, etc.) to over 1 million capacity per year in the spring. that's the promise i made. the supply is the states, the purchase of ammunition is the states, we are the industry. i want to tell you here today that this promise will be fulfilled: in april or march or april, we will have exceeded the production as promised. so yes, europe is moving faster than the united states, and in this respect much faster. i can even tell you that, given what i see on the ground, the current course of the asap programme, we will probably reach 1.3 to 1.4 million by the end of 2024. so, yes, we're accelerating, and we're going even faster in 2025. now you're right: this production must go to ukraine first. i have to say that when i see some defense ministers saying, "it's strange, they can't deliver", i tell them, and i don't mean to anyone, "but be my guest". it is obviously your responsibility to ensure that your industries deliver what is produced in your territory to ukraine! it is not a huge thing to say to the entire defence industry over the next four or five months: since we are now almost 1 million reserved, you have customers who may have to wait a little longer? ukraine cannot wait, but the member states are the ones who have the hand, and i will not let it be said otherwise. it is the member states that have the hand, and they have refused, i should say, the priority proposed by the commission and voted by this parliament. so let's not come here and tell us not to give up. we know why, and it's possible. i say it's possible. as regards the situation in ukraine, why is it so important? obviously, to provide what ukraine needs on the front, but also to show vladimir putin our determination to be certain, it is flawless, to show him that we continue to increase our defense industrial production capacity and that we will continue to do so, so that we are, yes, i say, autonomous in our ability to support ukraine, including when it decides and only when it can, when it thinks it is useful to discuss. but it will have to be at that moment that she knows, and she can be sure, that we will be here, that behind us we will be here, and our industrial capacity too. good to see you, sir. this is the logic we are in, and we are now in the same logic with edip on all industrial defence programmes, not just those relating to ammunition. i have heard your comments on the timing and i share them. i would just like to say that, very honestly, given the situations we have been through, the crises we have been through, the responsiveness we have had to show and thank you for pointing out this, especially for my services , well, yes, it is true that we have developed programmes that are innovative programmes. i must also say that i never in my life imagined coming to defend them before this house, and i want to say it very sincerely: thank you for answering this call, and more than that. it is also true that we now have with edirpa and asap instruments which were emergency instruments. we were able to anticipate, we were quick, we had to decide, and edip was not designed as an emergency tool, but thanks to what we learned from edirpa and asap. edip is a structural instrument, and that is why we first made the first two pilots, if i may say so. we couldn't do it until we tested with edirpa and asap, so that's why the timing is right. but it must be done now, very soon after the consultation. i have wished for consultation with the member states, because, yes, defence is obviously the prerogative of the member states. it is therefore not only legitimate and necessary, but also very useful. i also want to remind you that i have supported this instrument for months and i am happy that, finally, hearing from you, it has become clear. i now hear this parliament supporting edip. thank you, because once again it is about our security and the security of our continent in the face of the geopolitical developments i have just mentioned. but let's be clear: to have a goal, of course, you have to be ambitious, and as you said, you have to have the means. if we do not have the means, there will be no political will. we have the capacity, i want to say it again before this house: we have the industrial capacity. we must now be able to help the arms industry to increase its production capacity very quickly and, once again, with a goal which is, at least, my personal compass which does not lose sight of the capacity of the other side, namely what is happening in russia. we have, i would say, the ability to do this, and even do much better and much more. as regards the details, after once again stressing mr gahler's remarks, i would like to say to mr krasnodębski that the commission has presented many elements and documents to the itre and sede committees. i hope that this information will be in line with the requests of mrs loiseau and mr glucksmann. yes, we have set our defence europe in motion. now we have to go further, harder. this can be done quickly, because there is an urgency, and given the changing geopolitical situation, this urgency is not measured in years but in months.
president-in-office of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply and for the information he has given us today on this matter. as i said at the outset, much progress has been made in the asap regulation and the edirpa regulation, and we sincerely hope that parliament and the commission will continue to work together for the adoption of the new edip. i am confident that the european council will approve of encouraging the commission to submit both the edip and edis as soon as possible, and i have taken note of the commissioner's information that he plans to do so as early as february. i can make a commitment on behalf of the council that will be examined quickly, and we hope that parliament will also make the same commitment.
author. – madam president, dear colleagues, commission, council, let me begin by thanking colleagues from across this house for the cooperation on this very strong resolution. the cruelty of the lukashenko regime knows no bounds, and we continue to observe that the treatment of political prisoners in belarus continues to worsen. this is why i am particularly concerned about mikalai statkevich, but also all political prisoners who are beaten, tortured, denied basic medical care. i also want to use this opportunity to mention other political prisoners with whom their family members have had no contact and communication for a long time, including viktar babaryka, siarhei tsikhanouski, maksim znak, maria kalesnikava, ihar losik, pavel sevyarynets, palina sharenda-panasiuk, andrzej poczobut and the nobel prize laureate, ales bialiatski. this evil needs to stop. the european union must continue to strengthen its sanctions against lukashenko and his henchmen. but we must also do more to speak out for political prisoners on the highest level, to support the families of the political prisoners and belarusians fleeing from the regime’s persecution. my message is simple: release, mikalai statkevich, release all political prisoners and stop this cruel repression! zhyve belarus!
author. – madam president, commissioner – no council – but dear colleagues, i would like to use my minute and read a letter from marina statkevich, the wife of mikalai statkevich, and ask you for understanding if i overstep some one-minute boundary. i really plead to you. ‘dear members of the european parliament. we believe and know that solidarity is not an empty word for you. i ask for solidarity with my country, with belarus. for 307 days there is no single message or news from behind my husband’s prison walls. like many relatives, i bang my head against this ‘wall’ and often feel alone in trying to break through. in recent weeks, there have been rumours that mikalai is no longer alive. i cannot believe it, but it could be true. please demand an end to the torture of the unknown. please demand that mikalai, maksim znak, ihar losik and all those who have not been heard from for a long time, be shown to their families. please, help to save my husband. help to save belarus. terror and violence must stop.’
author. – madam president, ‘troublemakers’ hands should be tied’ announced jaruzelski while introducing martial law in poland on 13 december 1981. now, forty-two years after, the same methods have been used by the usurper lukashenko against innocent people. where is mikalai statkevich, and where are the other opponents named by all my colleagues here? i shout loudly the words of solidarity of this chamber: all political prisoners should be released unconditionally now! we have to do our utmost to obtain this goal and also to help their families. some of them are very ill, like the wife of mikalai statkevich. we have to show this solidarity.
i'm a writer. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. if human rights and political freedoms are violated, if indeed abolished, in our neighbouring country, we cannot look away as a european parliament. the persecution, abuse, imprisonment or expulsion of critical voices, such as that of mikalaj statkevich, the suppression of all independent social or political forces, the attempt to eradicate any contradiction and thus to eliminate democracy, we rightly denounce all this! today we are calling on the lukashenko administration to release immediately mikalaj statkevich and all other political prisoners in belarus. let us show in practice that the eu institutions and eu member states are on the side of belarusian civil society. people who have to flee the country are dependent on easier access to visas and residence permits. let's keep the doors open! the efforts made at the un level to hold offenders to account deserve our full backing. let us act as credible and reliable partners in our eastern neighbourhood.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, colleagues, commission, imagine for a moment that your loved one is a political prisoner. bad enough, but you have not heard about his or her well-being or location for hundreds of days. frightening. it’s pure terror. mikalai statkevich is one of them and we are worried about him. and this goes for many more of the 1500 political prisoners in belarus. they count on us to fight putin’s war-crime-complicit, scared dictator lukashenko. and that means that the eu must do more. why are all of lukashenko’s cronies and companies not included on the sanctions list yet? make sure sanctions against belarus are just as firm as those against russia. no more excuses and delays. a deal on the 12th sanctions package against russia is expected soon, but we have been hearing that already for quite a while. the commission and member states know what to do.
madam president, dear colleagues, again we call for the release of political prisoners in belarus as 1 500 persons have been imprisoned in the pursuit of belarusian democracy. they are facing trials behind closed doors, on trumped up charges and in inhuman conditions. one of them is mikalai statkevich, a former presidential candidate imprisoned for 14 years. for the last nine months, neither his family nor lawyer has had any contact with him. several sources recently reported he had died in prison. his wife, marina, has the right to see her husband. we, as the european parliament, demand the immediate release of all political prisoners and insist on their access to lawyers and families. we have to invite the international committee of the red cross again to take an active approach in these matters. we stand firmly with the people of belarus in their democratic opposition and in their pursuit of a free and democratic belarus. zhyve belarus!
madam speaker, we are calling for the release of specific prisoners, but also the families who have gone missing. we have the most serious crimes committed by the putin puppet regime in our neighborhood. we must make it clear today that we will be talking again about belarus, about the people who are suffering from the very steps of this puppet regime. hundreds of families disappeared. the brutal methods of investigation, torture, murder that this regime actually commits, that's really unacceptable. our sanctions must be directed at the lukashenko regime and its leaders and force the regime to release these belarusian prisoners of freedom, prisoners of democracy, of democratic values. and we have to make sure we don't leave them. the citizens of belarus will not betray the european union.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, mikalai statkevich, a veteran opposition leader, is one of the nearly 1 500 political prisoners currently detained by belarus regime. regrettably, like many high-profile prisoners, he has been kept incommunicado. his family has not heard from him for the past ten months. he is believed to be held in penal colony 13 – one of the harshest ones with no access to his lawyers or medical assistance either. mr statkevich has spent ten cumulative years in prison. after being arrested in 2020 he was sentenced to another 14 years. even while in prison, mikalai statkevich remains a symbol of courage and resilience for belarusians. the situation of mikalai statkevich and all political prisoners in belarus remains one of the greatest concerns for the european union. since the fraudulent presidential elections in belarus in 2020 we have seen a steady deterioration of the human rights situation in that country, including torture and ill-treatment of political prisoners in detention, as well as persecution of belarusians in the country and in exile. the eu has repeatedly called on the lukashenko regime to immediately and unconditionally release all political prisoners. the eu has also introduced seven rounds of sanctions on belarus, including restrictive measures against the perpetrators, judges, prosecutors, heads of penal colonies and members of the regime’s security services. we are mobilising all tools to address the situation of political prisoners in belarus. the eu delegation in minsk regularly requests information from the belarusian authorities on the conditions of prominent political prisoners kept incommunicado, as well as access to visit them, including mikalai statkevich. together with the eu delegation, our member states that are present in minsk continue to show solidarity with political prisoners, notably by standing in front of courts during their trials. the eu will continue to lead efforts to bring to justice those responsible for human rights violations in belarus through the international accountability platform and in other international forums. on 29 november, high representative borrell issued a statement condemning the recent attacks on representatives of belarusian democratic forces and their families – yet another deplorable example of the ongoing repression and misuse of power by lukashenko and his regime. the belarusian people have shown exceptional courage and dignity in these difficult times. the eu stands with them in their quest for democracy and independence, and will continue to do so for as long as it takes.
i'm a writer. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. expulsing people from their ancestral habitats is never a good idea. if we are to speak of indigenous peoples, this is certainly more virulent because the need for protection is greater and the possibility of defending oneself is not there and is limited. the european parliament is rightly addressing today the possible injustice that threatens the massacre in northern tanzania. if the reason behind this is also the creation of more capacity for safari tourism, then this actually makes the situation even more unbearable. a traditional massai leader said, i quote, "we can't go anywhere else". losing the land would be the destruction of our community. these are reminders that we should take more than seriously. our spirit of the age is shaped by ever faster, farther, more beautiful, better and higher. but we realize that we might have to abandon this mindset and that this is not the smartest way to organize life on our planet. the masai live in specific and very traditional life forms that must be preserved and protected. although tourism brings significant money to tanzania: the price of this is disproportionate, to say the least. that is why the tanzanian government should make it its highest obligation to protect the massai in their way of life and form of life and to support them wherever possible. we europeans should also make our contribution and, in cooperation with our local partners, look at how and in what form european support can serve this purpose. because we always talk about equality, about partnership on equality. this is a very small part of the puzzle, but we as the eu should also be proactive in helping. because just standing here today and warning you to raise your finger is a little too little. if we are serious, we must also enter this process with support and support the masses from europe with european aid.
author. madam president, in the name of conservation of nature, tens of thousands of masai are being driven from their lands in tanzania today. access to water, healthcare and education are no longer guaranteed. the tanzanian government is cutting off the basic services one by one to force the masai to leave their land, causing a real humanitarian crisis. conservation of nature cannot be done to the detriment of indigenous peoples. environmental protection is also about protecting indigenous peoples in their environment, as they are the greatest protectors of our biodiversity. and in the ngorongoro, it is the masai who protect it, not the saudi princes to whom the tanzanian government wants to offer large hunting reserves on its ancestral lands. the european union and the international community must react immediately to these unacceptable human rights violations. after several delays by the tanzanian government, we call for an independent observation mission to be launched at last, as soon as possible. the masayis' prior, free and informed consent must be applied. the union should call on the tanzanian government to immediately cease the expulsion of the massai communities and ensure their safe return to their lands. on behalf of michèle rivasi, who brought this emergency resolution and who, deep down, fought for the rights of indigenous peoples, i thank you and i wish you to vote on this emergency resolution.
author. madam president, the tanzanian authorities have been trying for years to evict the masase communities from their ancestral lands. they justify this, allegedly, by defending the conservation of the area near the serengeti, ignoring that these communities have been living in total harmony with nature for hundreds of years. what's really behind these displacements is the construction of a luxury hunting reserve to boost elite tourism, one where the big fortunes and european monarchies are going to hunt elephants. this is their real model of nature conservation. the right to free, prior, informed consultation cannot be infringed. the interests of the great fortunes can never replace the rights of the masay people. there is no economic, social and sustainable development without respect for the right of peoples to enjoy their lands and natural resources. i did not want to end this intervention without remembering, precisely, comrade michèle rivasi, who fought so hard, among other things, precisely for the rights of the masay people.
for the epp group. madam president, commissioner, we have been dealing with the situation in tanzania on several occasions in 2015, 2018 and now we have an unacceptable move by the tanzanian authorities to evacuate the masai from the ngorongoro protected area in tanzania. the area was created in 1959 to conserve natural resources and also to protect the interests of the masai shepherds. now the tanzanian authorities have forcibly stopped the masai shepherds from grazing their cattle and have begun to reduce the availability of health and education services in this protected area. they directly affect the ability of this community to continue living in this protected area. the move was carried out using unfair and illegal practices, excessive use of force and, of course, forced eviction. i think it is clearly in the right place to call on the tanzanian government to stop these forced evictions and displacements and to work with these affected communities to develop a plan that meets their needs and is in line with international human rights provisions. we must remember that all measures relating to massy communities must be fully in accordance with the rule of law and respect for human rights.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, mr commissioner, as i speak for the first time in plenary on issues relating to the rights of peoples in africa, i cannot help but recall the memory of our colleague, michèle rivasi, who died suddenly on 29 november. i am sure that she would join us in our appeal to the tanzanian authorities to respect the will of the massai people to live on their ancestral lands and not to force their displacement. it is essential that the authorities define a permanent and appropriate solution for the massai, respecting their fundamental rights and ensuring the application of the principle of accountability for those who fail to comply. tanzania is a strong and recognised partner in the acp-eu partnership. this is what happened under the lomé and cotonou agreements and certainly will happen under the samoa agreement, which will enter into force on 1 january. international cooperation with the european union and the united nations, in respect of tanzania's sovereignty, by allowing these entities to make observation visits, should help create conditions for a just and respectful solution to the rights of peoples.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear mr commissioner, dear colleagues, and also dear tanzanian government, i appreciate your will to protect the nature in your country. i lived in dar es salaam for one year. i know the beauty of the nature and i met amazing people over there. so yes, the nature is wonderful, but also the culture is wonderful. also the people are wonderful. and with your plans to evict the maasai from their land, the women, the children, the men and all their life, you clearly violate the rights of these people. is this what you want? i don’t think so. and so i want to state one proverb in kiswahili: (the speaker concluded in a non-official language)
madam president, dear colleagues, for years the indigenous people have been fighting for their rights in tanzania. the maasai are continuously being pushed out of their ancestral land. since 2009, the government has used a range of abusive tactics to displace about150 000 people across the ngorongoro district. on 22 june, the tanzanian authorities deprived more than 90 000 people of access to grazing land, including access to food, water and healthcare. refusal was met with teargas, rubber bullets and arrests. the tanzanian government must halt these forcible evictions and allow the maasai the ancestral land they have managed for generations. we call on the eeas and the commission to insist on upholding human rights in their political dialogue with tanzania.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, tanzania is an important strategic partner for the european union and the most peaceful and stable country in the region. we have good relations with the government of president samia suluhu hassan, the first woman president of tanzania, who came to power through a smooth constitutional transition back in 2021. we expect that under the samoa agreement, our cooperation will be further reinforced, also to support the strong development agenda for the country. the country is a major destination in africa for european tourists and increasingly so for the european trade and investment. in specific terms of environmental conservation, tanzania remarkably protects 43.7% of its vast territory. on the topic discussed today, we must recall that the rights of indigenous peoples are an integral part of the european union’s human rights policy. that is why we follow closely the developments concerning the maasai communities living in the ngorongoro district. during our bilateral contact with the tanzanian government we reiterated our position that all measures related to maasai communities need to be adopted in compliance with the rule of law and respect for human rights. we also underline the need to uphold the principle of free, prior and informed consent in all decisions affecting the maasai community, in line with the un declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples. in this regard, the european union strongly encourages the conduct of genuinely inclusive national dialogue among all stakeholders in order to identify consensual and fair solutions to the existing problems. in its response, the government has pointed out first the need to bring material progress to the people of that region, which is characterised by higher than average poverty levels. and second, the crucial need to preserve the unique serengeti ecosystem, with the world-known migration cycle of wildlife. the european union has raised the situation of the maasai communities at the political dialogue meeting between the eu and the government of the united republic of tanzania at the end of february this year. the eu has called for a permanent and acceptable solution for the maasai in the ngorongoro district, in line with the principles of justice, transparency, fairness and inclusion. we will continue reaching out formally and informally to the tanzanian government to advocate for the respect of human rights and the rule of law for all, and this will also include the advocacy and support to campaigns aiming at eradicating female genital mutilation, which is still widely practised in maasai communities, with prevalence of over 40% for women of age 15 to 49. progress in recent years is also due to the government commitment to enforce policies aiming at ending this phenomenon. we will continue monitoring the situation through close contact with the authorities, with the representatives of the maasai people and other human rights defenders, and we will intervene whenever necessary and possible through the established channels.
author. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, lately our attention has been directed mainly towards the deportation of ukrainian children and their re-education in camps. however, tibetan children are also suffering at the hands of the repressive policies of the government of the people’s republic of china. around 1 million tibetan children have been separated from their families and put into the expensive system of compulsory boarding schools. here they are being stripped of their language, culture and religion. the prc government’s objective is clear: to eradicate tibetan identity altogether and steal their future. we strongly condemn these repressive policies and call for immediate abolishment of the boarding school system. we call on the member states and the high representative to demand from the chinese government permits for european diplomats to visit boarding schools across tibet, as well as to allow independent journalists to visit the region. however, the chinese government must refrain from spreading fake news, as for example, on 5 september, when the chinese government orchestrated a media tour in one of the boarding schools to try to sway public opinion. no matter how many divisions china throws it cannot overshadow the large extent of their assimilation policies. children’s rights are nothing for the chinese government. i appeal to the un to address these horrible breaches of human rights and attempts to eradicate the tibetan identity in the upcoming universal periodic review in january. dear colleagues, in ten days we will celebrate christmas day, the birth of jesus. let me say that like him every child needs love and protection. thank you for your support.
author. madam president, dharamsala is a beautiful mountain town i visited at the foot of the himalayas. it is full of buddhist monasteries and temples and museums on tibetan history. it has an art institute where people work wood, textiles and metals by hand, and a large school village where teachers draw tibetan letters on the slate. what you hear in dharamsala is the sound of buddhist carols, the rolling of prayer grinders and the children greeting you (tashi delek!). dharamsala is a vibrant part of tibetan culture. but dharamsala is in india, where the tibetan government in exile has settled, because in tibet, annexed by china, children can no longer speak tibetan. they are de facto taken from their families and forced to forget their culture in favour of the han culture, which is dominant in china. this is indeed an example of forced assimilation and the erasure of the identity of an entire people. uighurs, tibetans... no one is immune from xi jinping's party's policies of sinking. culture is the essence of a people. the condemnation must be firm, along with the answers. the united states has acted with visa restrictions. when will the european union take action?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the cop 28 that is coming to a close is similar to the previous ones: an intersection of ngos, lobbyists and state actors who will hurry to forget their non-binding commitments. the goal of keeping global warming at 1.5 degrees seems unattainable, as the world consumes more fossil fuels every year. this race seems crazy, and it will not be stopped by the emerging countries, which want their consumer society, or by the industrialized countries, whose famous transition will require even more metals and energy. equally appalling is the fact that it is now the door to pseudo-technological solutions. the flamour doctors of globalized capitalism will be able to experiment with the greatness of nature and go through the process. their philosophy is the same as ever. the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. the downside for us would be twofold: on the one hand, saying that everything is fucked up and we're going to enjoy it to the end. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. the reality is that our citizens want to make efforts for the environment, but without their standard of living being too affected. it is up to us to keep this balance together.
mr president, our respective citizens see the cop 28 in dubai as a huge farce and i understand them. the fact that these are organised in a petromonarchy with a ridiculously high carbon footprint, these worldly environmental dinners cannot be a credible answer to climate challenges. this supposedly climate conference was primarily a venue for international negotiations to resolve the military crisis in the middle east. while ecology is a matter of measurement, of boundaries, of boundaries, the european union and globalists are making it a means of centralization in favour of global, borderless and monopoly. while ecology is a matter of common sense and cooperation, disconnected technocrats are making a crusade against everyday workers. once again, the european citizens will be the only ones to bear the burden of climate change, while the carbon balance of our continent is negligible. and once again, it will be the weakest who will have to take the initiative to combat the harmful effects of your policy. so for the good of the planet, let's stop these grotesque and expensive cops and finally change paradigms.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe we can really thank those who found the phrase 'transition from fossil fuels' which saves this cop, and i would like to welcome the firmness with which the european negotiating team has worked to reach this agreement. the text thus informs the countries of the south that we recognize their right to access energy to meet their development needs in a transition towards decarbonised energy. this is what we will be putting forward in a report which we will vote on in january, but we will have to bring this expression to life in our partnerships. the other victory of this agreement is the increasingly important role of the ocean in the cop. this is a real development of ocean-based solutions and the text calls on the parties to preserve it, but also to rely on all solutions. this is not just about decarbonising maritime transport or marine energy, but also restoring marine and coastal ecosystems. i repeat, we need a genuine blue pact at european level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it would have been 28 cop before the states finally agreed to tackle the fossil fuel taboo, but without demanding a clear and clear way out of it, since it is the main culprit of climate change. the transition will be without distances, without a path or a time limit. in reality, our future on a habitable earth is moving away. the only victory to be welcomed is this great lexical creativity, i must admit, to invent terms that do not commit to anything. because today, mankind is in fact moving toward extinction. and that's not surprising, as this conference of parties was actually a lobbying conference. 2,500 lobbyists crowding the hallways, four times as many as for cop 27. the boss of total, a big eco, we know it well, in emmanuel macron's suitcases. and, of course, the cop president himself, sultan al-jaber, who happens to be the ceo of an oil giant. i would like to sum up: we know that climate change is already irreversible. we're on a cataclysmic trajectory of three or four degrees. the year 2023 is already the hottest year on record. but we let the lobbies make their own rules. how long are we going to accept this? as long as we negotiate with those who plundered the planet, nothing will move. as long as we refuse a radical and total break with this economic system that destroys everything, nothing will change. the ecology without question of capitalism, my colleagues, is gardening, and we no longer have time to garden. we have a planet to save.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been to dubai aware of the disasters caused by climate change: floods, heat waves and desertification of our territories. during cop28, we heard the cry of sorrow from the representatives of the small islands, which are in danger of disappearing from the sea level rise. their battle is our battle! is the agreement reached at cop28 the best? no, we could have gotten more. there was a compromise on the definition of phasing-out, but now it's clear: the commission has already made a number of proposals for a new directive on the environment. the decision to triple the use of renewable energy and to double energy efficiency is positive. the eu must play a leading role; i would like to thank commissioner hoekstra and the spanish presidency for keeping our ambitions high. it is now up to us to translate these commitments into laws and regulations, but we must do so quickly.
mr president, the coincidence of the visceral attacks by the greens and the far right on the outcome of the cop indicates to me that it has worked out well. it is not the solution to all the evils that plague us, of course. i am proud of the role that the european union has played, as always, at these meetings. we can aspire to more, no doubt. but instead of this destructive criticism, let us celebrate the fact that experts, governments, the private sector have come together and reached agreements, some of them historic, which those who are seeking the immediate vote in the next european elections are unwilling to pay attention to. they're wrong. it is not the future of your vote, it is the future of europeans. and that is what unites us as moderate, right-wing and left-wing politicians: saving european citizens from climate change; helping them face these challenges. consequently, congratulations to the presidency on the results achieved.
mr president, my colleagues, as others have said before me, the progress of this cop cannot be denied. after a difficult start, and although we may regret some vague formulations, a political act is being put forward: fossil fuels are the source of the climate crisis and the world must get out of it. i would also like to draw your attention to another crucial point: for the first time in the history of the cop, 158 countries have agreed on a declaration on sustainable agriculture and food systems. agriculture and food are strategic areas in the fight against climate change. this important step must now be put into action and implementation will be crucial. so be careful not to pursue technological-solutionist ideas based on gmos, pesticides and synthetic fertilizers, which we must, like fossils, absolutely get out of. we already have the solutions. they are practiced daily by millions of farmers around the world. these solutions have a name, agroecology. they are based on cooperation with nature. once again, the eu must lead the way. so now, let's roll back the sleeves.
mr president, madam commissioner, the sense of responsibility, solidarity: in dubai we had a hard time imposing these two basic elements to win our fight for the climate. but absolutely everywhere, absolutely everyone knows today that the compression roll of climate change requires us to change our lifestyles immediately. disaster after disaster, the devastating alarm signal requires much more than words, much more than a declaration of intent. cop 28 sets a new course and that's good. but for millions of europeans in overseas territories, as for our neighbours of small island states, we are on the front lines and our urgent need is to strengthen international cooperation to save the ocean, to preserve biodiversity and to win the battle of the waters. for us, for our children, for today and for tomorrow, we urgently need new funding to build solutions. we don't have a second planet, we won't have a second chance.
on behalf of the id group. i would like to say that the commissioner has not yet made a decision on the matter. when a petition comes here, when citizens complain, the commission does not follow it because, allegedly, these complaints concern particular cases or various facts. it's also the attitude of the european medicines agency and your brussels administration that have 12,000 deaths and millions of side effects from covid-19 vaccines, pfizer and others, without taking consequences and hiding information from the public in a drawer. the commission's current approach to not giving access to documents and sms, ignoring petitions, ignoring citizens by sending petitions back to countries, leads to the blocking of proceedings for years in the pre-contest phase, without transmission to the courts and without access to essential documents. in the face of this opaque bureaucracy in brussels, the best defense is attack, as emperor napoleon said. the court of auditors' latest report on public procurement in europe. the public procurement process is worth some eur 2 trillion a year. the court concludes that the duration of administrative proceedings has doubled in ten years. neither eurostat nor the commission monitor public procurement prices. the level of competition has declined over the last decade. the court uses two key indicators to measure noncompetition between public contracts: no tender and a single tenderer. does that remind you of anything? i'm reminded of the contracts to buy covid-19 vaccines with these prices and these secret clauses. finally, i will quote the court of auditors: 'public procurement involving large sums of public money is a risk of fraud and corruption'. in public procurement, transparency is therefore essential to ensure that all decision-makers are held accountable for their actions. the european ombudsman asked us last week to fight corruption and she is right. this has to be a priority for all of us, and qatargate has to be a priority, and it has to be a priority for all of us.
