madam president, the swedish presidency's agenda is accelerating the anti-people strategy of the european union and its governments, which is shaking the peoples, who of course recognize who is to blame, and this is reflected in the very low acceptance of the european union in the figures. the priority is the escalation of the war in ukraine between euro-atlanticism and russia and the accession of sweden and finland to nato. the aim is for the european union to intervene wherever it is needed, implementing the requirements of the belligerent security and defence policy, the strategic compass, taking additional measures to continue the political repression of the european union. sweden, a country that has been at the forefront of the green transition, with renewable energy and nuclear energy, independent of russia, is now announcing power cuts for the people. it is clear that this strategy leads the people to pay a heavy price for the guaranteed profitability of the groups. the european union, which defends monopolies, cannot provide a solution to the pressing problems of workers, such as punctuality, inflation and a fall in income. only the people can save the people when they realize the power they have in their hands, by claiming their contemporary needs and walking the path of overthrowing this system.
mr president, minister, commissioner kyriakides, colleagues, covid-19 has made the last couple of years quite challenging for our health systems. however, we are now facing even greater challenges so we need an eu coordinated approach to overcome them. while the covid-19 cases are rising in china, hospitals across the member states are being overwhelmed by an early surge in respiratory infections but their hospital beds are full. as a result, persons with less urgent illnesses may face long waits, and kids who need cancer treatment or surgery may be sent home to wait. as part of the pharmaceutical strategy, we need to address the rising admissions and the extreme shortage of medication in a holistic way and, of course, without compromising the health of other persons. dear commissioner, we need to know what measures the commission will take in the short and the long term to ensure immediate access to all pharmaceutical products.
mr president, commissioner, the pandemic has shown that the invisible hand of the market, the small state and chronic disinvestment by society and public health are if not the cause of the public health crisis, insufficient to deal with it. it has shown that democratic governments can and must take radical measures to protect public health and has highlighted the need for a common european public health policy. three years later, on the contrary, we are seeing even greater shortages of raw materials and therefore of preparations, deregulation of the pharmaceutical market and severe damage to public health systems with massive redundancies and lack of resources. today, therefore, we need a genuine european health planning based on the 'one health' approach in the spirit of the european green deal, with the primary concern of protecting citizens from profiteering in times of crisis, war, but above all of climate breakdown and the coming spread of pandemics. greece is a reference country for the price of the drug. the phenomenon of exporting products before the domestic market is covered is an antisocial practice and must be prohibited. the economic deprivation of the european south cannot lead to the deprivation of medicines by the citizens of the south - and especially by children - in a united europe of solidarity.
mr president, the uncertain and volatile environment in which we live, created by destabilising factors which are bent on tearing apart the european fabric, requires us today more than ever to strengthen the single european defence and security policy of our union. i stress this not only as a european but also as a greek who sees his hard-line neighbour blackmailing, violating international law and even going so far as to threaten casus belli. overflights, illegal fishing, the exploitation of migration and the desecration of world heritage sites are now commonplace. and so that you all understand that turkey has crossed all limits, i remind you, mr borrell and my dear colleagues, of the letter sent by the greek foreign minister, mr dendias, in which he describes the real situation and stresses that greece's tolerance of these provocations is coming to an end. the european union must therefore - not with words but with deeds and actions - stand up for itself and defend the sovereign rights of its member states against the whims and ambitions of third countries. it must also lay down targeted and strict rules on the participation of third countries in trade agreements in the field of defence and security, always with due regard for the agreements and the principle of selectivity.
mr president, the 2022 annual report on the union's common foreign and security policy is a useful roadmap for achieving european strategic autonomy. the report is satisfactory in its reference to the eastern mediterranean, where unfortunately greece has recently been forced to engage in a dialogue with an alienated neighbour, who is constantly treading the path of revisionism, threats, challenges and the devaluation of european principles and values. turkey continues to exploit human suffering, use aggressive rhetoric against greece and defy international law. in the last month, there have been threats of even a missile attack on greece. as was boldly stated in that report, turkey's accession perspective cannot be advanced under the present circumstances. we must not, ladies and gentlemen, by our decisions allow the phenomena of russia to reoccur. the european union must show no tolerance for turkey's redemptive appetites and expansionist agenda.
madam president, the purported clean-up and transparency measures which the european union claimed it would take after the qatargate scandal have sunk into the mire of the interests of the monopolies it serves. the confession by those involved in the scandal that they had even drawn up a price list for resolutions and amendments defending human rights by the european union confirms what the kke, that is, we, have been denouncing at an unsuspected time about the industry of human rights resolutions. the report also proposes to upgrade the droi subcommittee, which has been the focus of the debate, and this is an unprecedented challenge. it is far too late for the european union, one of the main perpetrators of barbarism, oppression, imperialist wars, interventions, refugees and migration, to try to present itself today as the guardian of human rights. the european union is using human rights as a vehicle for action around the world to safeguard the interests of its groups. the people, therefore, need to reject the self-appointed saviors who deliberately intervene. in their struggle, to impose their right and interests against the exploiters and the rotten system they support.
madam president, fascism does not come from the future, fascism does not come from the future, but something new must come to us. we know him, we paid him, we hurt him, we bled him. and the far right is not a passing phenomenon. it is a situation which is being armed, watered and revived here in these parliamentary seats. today's first vote was very worrying, very worrying. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that is responsible for the implementation of the convention. the same political families are making the same historic mistake of the 35s. we are spectators in the same play, unfortunately, attributing normality and legitimacy to an extremist, inhuman, fascist rhetoric, which may have fleeting victories in the narrative in elections perhaps, but in reality it is firing democracy. so those of us who believe in this, i think we can form an alliance. democracy is above all.
mr president, in many countries uber's practices of violent and illegal expansion of its activities through opaque relations with the authorities have harmed the interests of legitimate taxi drivers and passengers. few governments, such as the government of alexis tsipras in 2018 in greece, have managed to resist lobbying and vested interests and put an end to these unacceptable practices. however, even today the commission refuses to recognise the risks of market deregulation and, in the new urban mobility framework, calls for further market opening with the obvious aim of penetration of uber-type services. the commission should therefore, instead of undermining the role and rights of legitimate taxi drivers, explore how it can defend their interests and the interests of passengers against powerful tech giants, for example through the development of european public applications for the benefit of the industry and passengers.
mr president, we are talking about an organized plan to slander our institutions, erode our states and ultimately replace our nations. the accusers of the greek navy should be ashamed and should be investigated and even more so their sponsors. twenty-four ngo workers on lesvos were arrested for espionage, forgery and illegal listening to radio frequencies to inform turkish smugglers of the location of greek coastal ships. shortly before the greek court's decision was announced, there was an intervention by the un high commissioner for refugees asking for the charges to be dropped. we're talking about the formation and support of a criminal organization, smuggling and fraud. ngos are trying to alter the rule of law in greece. the networks of exploitation of human misery, together with the ngo branch, are a deadly cancer to our democracies and our countries.
mr president, i see that we are again faced with an attempt to use the migrant problem to harm my country, greece. a country which, with a strict but fair immigration policy, protects its external and other european borders, while saving thousands of lives. and i say this categorically: the government's actions, such as the register of organisations implementing migration-related actions, are in full compliance with european legislation. the register allows the greek state to ensure that these ngos actually provide the services they claim to provide, thus ensuring the safety and human rights of refugees and migrants. it allows the greek authorities to be fully informed about the legality of their actions, as is the case for any other legal or natural person operating on greek territory. instead of blaming the first host countries, such as greece, let us concentrate on finding a genuine european solution, based on the principle of solidarity and ensuring a fair and lasting sharing of responsibility between the member states.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, if there were natural phenomena - fires, earthquakes, floods - there would have been an airlift. we are witnessing the inhuman torture of 120,000 people. we need a rescue initiative. i am glad that the majority of this house recognizes and condemns the azerbaijani plan. the azerbaijani dictatorship imprisons or silences azerbaijani dissidents. if there had been a democratic regime that respected the rights of the armenians, perhaps the historical development would have been different. but azerbaijan today gives the armenians of nagorno karabakh three choices: either to leave their ancestral homes or to surrender to azerbaijan and abandon their identity or to surrender and have the fate of the armenians of turkey in 1919. if we want to be called human, rescuing the armenians with a humanitarian airlift is the least we have to do by the end of the week.
madam president, when discussing the situation of small-scale fishing in the european union, we must not forget the repeated illegal activity of turkish fishing vessels within the greek sea ice zone. turkish fishermen are fishing illegally and contraband within greek territorial waters, often escorting ships of the turkish coastline, refusing to cooperate with the greek authorities. these illegal activities distort competition, harm the economic competitiveness of small-scale fisheries and weaken the small coastal communities that depend on them. but let us not be deceived! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. it is yet another instrument of president erdogan's revisionist policy, which increases the probability of an accident with all its implications for security and stability in the region. and that's why it must not go unanswered! we call for a strong message to be sent to turkey, with sanctions in accordance with existing european legislation on illegal fishing, including a ban on the import of fishery products from turkey into the european union market.
mr president, what mr weber said about walls not being taboo, that scared me a little. i never saw the berlin wall as taboo, nor the nicosia wall. so i find his statement rather inaccurate, not to mention unhistorical. the realistic and humane approach to the issue can only be achieved at european level through legal and controlled safe channels, with an application for asylum combined with mandatory equal and proportionate relocation of refugees in all member states. i agree with what the socialists said: solidarity must be enforced and not play with words. european leadership must stop funding and reinforcing the root causes of the refugee crisis, such as war and the climate crisis, and focus on projects that aim at the well-being of people at home. what we are seeing today is a failed administration and we have created a machine that is eating billions of europe's citizens to produce new dead ends, oppression and death. and of course there is a simple question: walls between europe and countries like turkey that are about to join? is turkey a safe country after all or not? that is a big question. let us not make fun of people and certainly not play with extreme right-wing scenarios.
mr president, the issue of migration is back on the agenda of the forthcoming summit as a result of the dramatic increase in migration flows. the first host countries in europe, such as my country, greece, are again called upon to shoulder a disproportionately heavy burden, while fully complying with international and european obligations and rules. this is putting increasing pressure on asylum and reception systems and next week's summit must be the starting point for a genuine european solution. a solution which will first and foremost ensure a fair and permanent sharing of responsibility between the member states, tackle at the root the exploitation of human suffering by traffickers' networks and provide a specific framework for organisations implementing migration actions. there's no more time to waste.
mr president, the case of the 38 migrants who were found abandoned on greek soil, as well as the alleged death of a little girl from a scorpion bite on an island in evros, has been shown to be fake news and slander against greece. confirmed by a syrian refugee. the ngo that had been involved in the case publicly admitted its mistake and der spiegel magazine retracted the articles. however, the left meps, mr kouloulou and mr arvanitis, had the audacity to table a written question on this and their party in greece, syriza, still today insists on denying the truth. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. ladies and gentlemen, those who have spread lies and slander against greece in the case of the allegedly dead maria on the island of evros must today ask a great apology from the european parliament and above all from the greek people.
madam president, the debate that is taking place and the resolution itself are revealing. the united states of america, the european union, nato and their governments are promoting the escalation of war operations by sending armored and mechanized aircraft and fighter aircraft. the russian side is stepping up its own operations, mainly in the donbass. in the context of the imperialist war which the ukrainian and russian peoples are paying for with their blood, the european union is stepping up its intervention in ukraine for investments, energy deals and reconstruction worth billions of euros in competition with the united states of america. agreements that mortgage the future of the ukrainian people for capitalist profits. it is becoming clear that war is born of the fierce competition of monopolies, is waged by the bourgeoisie and people are killed for the master's food. in greece, new democracy, syriza and pasok are all aligned in supporting the euro-atlantic projects, fuelling the race for engagement, armaments and sanctions, which not only do not protect sovereign rights, but turn the people into a target. the answer can be found in the independent struggle of the people to disengage from the war and to free themselves from the murderous alliances.
madam president, the evolution of the recovery and resilience facility perfectly represents what some refer to today as the ‘age of permacrisis’. it was established to tackle problems caused by the pandemic. now we’re retrofitting it in order to tackle the energy crisis. as we now face the next challenge in europe, the challenge of competitiveness, some have suggested an eu sovereignty fund. but maybe we should be looking again at the rrf for a solution. we have a skills gap. we suffer from strategic dependencies, and we’re a heavily regulated jurisdiction compared to other parts of the world. and the inflation reduction act in the united states has added further pressure. but relaxation of state aid rules alone will be insufficient and unfair to members with less available fiscal space. so if we can’t agree on new funding immediately, we will need to repurpose the rrf as suggested by the greek minister of finance, christos staikouras. and a viable option could be the conversion of some rff loans into grants. this greek proposal can contribute substantially to finding a viable and practical solution to europe’s competitiveness crunch.
madam president, dear colleagues, today were talking about the ultimate threat to democracy. in a union like ours, especially when it comes to the participation of disabled persons in the european parliament elections, we need the establishment of a more coherent approach across member states. it is irrational for a disabled person with a specific impairment to have the right in a member state and hindered or deprived of it when residing in another member state, whether it is the same person or someone with the same impairment. it is the same union, the same election, the same fundamental right. the eu should not only ensure the accessibility of the procedures, it is the best opportunity for the union to grant this right to those disabled persons who are deprived of their legal capacity, no matter of the legal framework of the home member state or their residence. this is a symbolic occasion for the eu to show their way.
madam president, progress in the fight against violence against women is insufficient, while gender-based violence remains a global scourge of explosive proportions that is often silenced and its true scale is not captured. we are mourning the victims of crimes that could have been prevented in time, and that is a failure on all of our part. the abuse is on the rise, and the sad list of femicides is growing. the istanbul convention is the most effective, powerful and comprehensive instrument for preventing and combating gender-based violence against women and domestic violence. her probation has been dramatically delayed. the council must show political will, commissioner, because the court of justice of the european union has ruled that, even without the ratification of all the member states, the european union can and must ratify the istanbul convention immediately. the convention will thus be fully implemented by all member states in their national legislation and policies.
the debate on an independent ethics body in the union has been going on since the last term of office and, unfortunately, events have prevented us from seeing the need for such an institution. the body should have not only investigative powers but also sanctioning powers. information from third parties such as journalists, ngos and whistleblowers should also be protected. it must also include the european parliament and the commission, but also all the institutions of the european union, including the council, if we are to speak of a real union. and, of course, we insist on the highest possible level of transparency. full transparency and accountability at the core of europe, so that it is not eroded by any internal or external factor or interest, so that we have the confidence of our citizens unshaken.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because the bourgeois parties today aim to keep the eu regulations, directives, mechanisms that have co-formed and voted and shielded the unacceptable anti-people framework of the dossier against the so-called enemy people untouched. with the 2021 regulation, spyware is considered normal in the european union. at least 14 member states have used them. the responsibility of new democracy and the prime minister for the wiretaps is enormous, but so is syriza, pasok. the european parliament voted the regulation together. together with the greek parliament's mepa25, they approved the european union's police directive that generalizes the file, the trade of personal data. that is why all the defenders of the rule of law have been keeping radio silence about the confirmed interceptions against the kke for the last six and a half years. we are strengthening the fight against the cover-up of surveillance and the eu's back-up mechanisms, by strengthening the kke with its crystal clear, unwavering position in favour of unhindered trade union and political action to protect popular freedoms.
your honor, the road to hell is paved with good intentions. there were good european intentions when the independent authorities were proposed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. appointment by the majority of the house leads to control by the large minority called the majority and to total control by the systemic parties, when the agreement of two thirds of the national parliament is required. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules of the game are respected, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. we denounce controlled administrations that execute the demands of their appointees, in anticipation of subsequent rewards. and, yes, we denounce the obvious. the controlled administrations of the independent authorities in greece cannot easily control the government that appointed them. the national broadcasting council is one such flagrant bad practice. it stifles dissent from the government by keeping the game under systemic control. if we really want democracy, let the greeks decide freely.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. what separates the cases is whether and whether each government is trying to heal the wound or is the wound itself. in the case of greece, the wound here is kyriakos mitsotakis himself, who perceives the state as his property. from the arrests of parents and children in cinemas for watching the movie joker to the funding lists of media outlets (petsa list), the murders of roma minor offenders by the police, the pushbacks, the police invasion with extreme violence of the house of director indare, the persecution of journalists and acting judicial officials, we arrived at the organization and orchestration of surveillance of political and institutional functionaries of the republic by order and guidance of mr. mitsotakis himself. it is shocking to discover that the mainstream media, the top police officers were communicating and taking orders from the greek mafia. and of course we cannot forget about george karaivas, the journalist who was murdered and we are still looking for the culprits. today the guardian reveals election rigging in 30 countries, including greece. something's going on in greece. and, of course, we believe that this nightmare will soon end and that democracy will win.
madam president, commissioner, the real question today is why? why does s&d insist on discussing greek wiretapping again in this chamber after resignations and inquiry in the hellenic parliament, a pega mission, the strictest legislation in all of europe banning spyware and ongoing judicial proceedings. why are we discussing the rule of law in greece when the economist intelligence unit democracy index shows one of the highest rankings increase for greece, as opposed to a clearly inaccurate index which ranks greece below burkina faso? why is greece being systematically slandered in this house by an à-la-carte centre-left majority spreading lies about alleged pushbacks and dead children? and why does the draft pega report rely blindly on the unsubstantiated claims of greek opposition newspapers, which in and of itself, by the way, proves that there is freedom of the press in greece? could it be because the polls in greece show a clear lead of prime minister kyriakos mitsotakis in the upcoming elections? and could it be that these slanderous attacks serve only to support the centre-left opposition in greece? yes, the answer is that simple and so is the truth. and the truth is that we’re not here today to discuss the rule of law in greece, we are here because s&d and the left wish to influence the outcome of the greek elections. and that, dear colleagues, is for the people of greece to decide. and i'll say it in greek. η ελλάδα είναι δημοκρατία και οι έλληνες και ελληνίδες πολίτες θα αποφασίσουν ποιος θα την κυβερνήσει.
madam president, i believe that today's debate is unfair to my country. it's not fair to greece. why is it now, in an election period, and is it considered an interference in the electoral procedures of a member state of the union? we are referring here to the disagreements we have repeatedly expressed in greece. it is well known, ladies and gentlemen, that the subject of wiretaps has been discussed at all levels since last summer, and i shall not repeat the arguments put forward by mrs wozberg in her speech, because i do not have the time. i would remind you, however, that the committee on institutions and transparency of the greek parliament has examined the matter in detail. the independent authorities have intervened. the justice department is investigating. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union customs union with the republic of moldova. pega came to greece, cooperated with the greek authorities and the government and now we are all waiting for the decisions of the independent judiciary, which is the only competent one. we all want to see the light. we have done and will do everything possible to make the truth shine. and we took the political responsibility. i therefore believe that this debate at this particular time, at this stage in the european parliament, does not contribute to the search for the truth, but ultimately serves political purposes which are not appropriate in a democratic country which is a member of a democratic union. the greek people will soon decide by going to the polls and then, indeed, we will see who is right and we will have to wait for the decisions of the judiciary. the debate today is therefore untimely, it is wrong and we all understand that.
madam president, the report promotes the planning of banking and business groups and the strategy of the european union and the central bank which leads to interest rate increases of up to 33%, the creation of red loans and general auctions of popular wealth. the decision of the greek supreme court to hold an auction pogrom based on the bankruptcy law of the new democracy government and that of syriza's predecessor, which handed over the red loans to the predators of funds, serves this objective. as for the price and inflation race, it is the result of giant subsidies to monopolies through the super-memorandum recovery fund and cheap borrowing with workers' money. ultimately more expansionist, more restrictive, your strategy always requires wages and rights in the charters. only the people can save the people by demanding real measures to protect incomes, a ban on auctions, the cancellation of debts and interest on the people's households. against the groups, the banks and the funds and against the repression of the mobilizations of the people who are losing their homes today.
madam president, we unequivocally condemn the constant state repression, the murders - such as of thulani maseko, the abductions, torture and imprisonment against activists, members of trade and student unions by the autocratic mswati regime. we express our solidarity with the communist party of swaziland in particular, recognising its important contribution for the organisation of the struggle for the people's needs against the reactionary regime that was established in 1973 and has since imposed a ban on political parties’ constant restrictions on trade union struggle. we condemn the arrests and torture against activists of the communist party, the false accusations, such as against recently bongi mamba and mvuselelo mkhabela, aiming at weakening the party’s militant stance in favour of working people's interests. we salute the struggle of the people of swaziland. we support their just demands for the legalisation of political parties, the safe return of political exiles and refugees, the lifting of all restrictions of the right to protest, of media censorship, for unrestricted parliamentary elections.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, today we in the european parliament are taking a very important step which will improve the daily lives of citizens. we call for a european cycling strategy with the aim of doubling the number of cycling kilometres in europe by 2030. we live in cities that are dangerous to our health, to the environment and to the climate. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on road transport and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on road transport. better health, reduced traffic congestion and noise pollution, improved air quality, economic growth, as well as other environmental and social benefits. cities need to invest in appropriate infrastructure and revise spatial planning so that citizens can switch to cycling, conventional or electric, and move safely and easily around the urban fabric. our objective is achievable if there is a strategy and a strong political will.
mr president, in greece we are living through the tempe railway tragedy. scheduled crime with 57 dead. hundreds of thousands of people and youth are demanding that the crime not be covered up, that the real culprits be punished. it wasn't human error or bad timing. it was the result of the european union's strategy of liberalising transport, of fragmenting it and handing it over to monopoly groups, with reduced staff, without network security. this strategy cost 640 victims in 2021 alone in the european union, where only 13% of the network is covered by remote control systems. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has also called for the introduction of a european standardisation system for the european union's financial markets, which would allow the commission to make a more effective use of the european union's financial instruments. the european union is the european union that the greek bourgeois parties, which are ruling by implementing its dangerous strategy, want. the dilemma for the working class and its children is: new victims and losses for profit or organized struggle to overthrow capitalist barbarity ? the answer is a new strike on march 16th, to not cover up the crime.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the volume of data produced by humans and machines is growing exponentially every year. industrial data can be a key driver of growth, innovation and transformation in all sectors of the european economy. unfortunately, today their full value remains untapped or concentrated in the hands of a few large corporations. to change this, the longstanding issues of data access, justice, interoperability and re-use of data need to be adequately addressed. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very important one. the protection of personal data is ensured, that access to data and data sharing will be free of charge for consumers, the use of non-personal private sector data by public bodies of b2g member states in case of public emergency or to fulfil a specific task in the public interest, the promotion of consumers' ability to better understand the technical details and their rights in relation to the data they generate, the right to legal recourse, etc. at the same time, however, there are still some elements which may undermine the objectives of the regulation and which should be improved in the coming trilogues. while, for example, the need to protect trade secrets is unquestionable, the risk of their unjustified use to undermine users' access rights should be addressed.
madam president, with the data act, the industry monopolies will no longer only be able to record, store, analyse and exploit user data, whether personal or not, as they do so far, for example in greece, thanks also to the relevant directive voted jointly by new democracy, syriza, pasok and mera25. in the context of the eu data market, european monopolies will be able to resell data to third parties as part of their commercial product or service, backed by the recovery fund, i.e. the people's money. in the context of competition with the united states and china and the restructuring of the industry, the number of redundancies in business giants such as google, facebook, amazon, twitter is multiplying. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, and that the community's financial interests are protected. the conclusion: the european union and the capitalist market are incompatible with any data protection. the struggle for digital technologies in the service of contemporary popular needs against the dark framework of the envelope is therefore linked to the struggle to overthrow the power of monopolies.
madam president, i think mr schmit's proposal is in the right direction, i just want to add a couple of things. i think we are living through a repeat of the same nightmare, especially for countries that have experienced bankruptcy: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to combat poverty, and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to combat poverty. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european semester must and can therefore promote a new production model based on the needs of the many and on social, environmental and fiscal justice and, of course, the basic goods being in the public domain and under public control. i am talking about collective agreements, mr schmit said that, and i agree with him, about fair and adequate wages, the safeguarding of workers' mental health, gender equality. the report we are discussing is in that direction, and it includes many of our priorities. i think we need to take both space and action in this process.
in writing. – prudent fiscal positions and sustainable growth are key pillars of the union’s fiscal strategy. greece has clearly conformed, and in fact has surpassed related expectations. the strides greece has made under the mitsotakis government, despite covid and the war in ukraine, are nothing short of exceptional. under mitsotakis’ leadership, greece has witnessed unprecedented growth, with the economy expanding by 5.9% in 2022, and a further 1.2% is expected for 2023. over the last three years, greece has consistently outperformed expectations. under the mitsotakis government, greece has achieved: the lowest levels of unemployment since 2010; consecutive records in export growth and inflows of fdi in 2021 and 2022; exited the eu’s enhanced surveillance framework after 12 years. prudent fiscal management has seen greece repay imf debt two years ahead of schedule. since 2021, our public debt to gdp ratio has entered a fast—declining path, which continues unabated. in january 2023, greece recorded a surplus of eur 1.47 billion – a staggering eur 500 million over the target. no wonder the ft has touted greece as ‘one of the seven economic wonders of the world’. the mitsotakis government’s commitment to securing greece’s long—term economic growth and prosperity is unwavering. the results show this.
mr president, the resolution on the minimum income sheds crocodile tears over the plight of workers who work for crumbs and face the run of inflation, the prices of basic goods and services, the extortion of banks and funds. it called on the commission to submit a draft directive corresponding to the one on the minimum wage, namely the directive which calls the unacceptable abolition of collective agreements and the fixing of a minimum wage by law a national tradition in greece and other member states. the strategy of the least is well known. it has been applied for years by the new democracy, syriza, pasok/kinal governments in my country: he gives out crumbs with a pass to those who lack the basics, which he takes from those who are less poor. it pushes social rights down, sets a poverty line above which no one is entitled to support, while the groups are crammed with the people's money. the measures that the workers, the class trade union movement, are fighting for today are: collective labour agreements, increases in wages and pensions, based on modern needs, abolition of vat on popular consumption goods, special consumption taxes on fuel and energy, cancellation of car loans and debts of popular households to banks and protection of the popular housing from auctions.
mr president, commissioner, there has been a lot of good things said in this chamber and we all understand that all the measures taken are very important, but i think that winter is still difficult and the efforts of the member states and the commission cannot provide the necessary relief to the citizens and the market. this precision and energy dependence of europe must be stopped immediately. i think that many countries, including greece, have made efforts in this regard. we heard about lng reception facilities. another initiative is the cooperation between greece and egypt, which helps to strengthen renewable energy sources, and i wanted to ask you specifically whether you think countries like greece should be supported when they bring to the european union the energy we need to become independent from natural gas and oil.
mr president, high representative, there can be no doubt as to the level of feeling that the proposed judicial reforms have unleashed in israel. emotions are very high, and this is obviously a very polarising issue for the country. but colleagues, we as outside observers should tread very carefully before jumping to any conclusions. labelling a country’s democracy as ‘deteriorating’ is, after all, a very serious charge. but as experience shows to many in this house will always jump at the opportunity to criticise israel. of course, we have concerns and of course, we are entitled to voice these concerns, but let us not prejudge any particular outcome. israel has been a functioning – and yes, mr borrell – vibrant democracy for 75 years and after five recent elections, it has a democratically elected government and a knesset. dear colleagues, as a friend of israel, i need to believe for the good of europe as well, that at the end of the day, israel will remain a fully functioning democracy.
mr president, mrs johansson, i could not disagree with what you have said under any circumstances. but here you see that we have two europeans: a europe that sees and a europe that does not understand. we are talking about italy, about the shipwreck, but here in the plenary, two sittings ago, were we not talking about cyprus? didn't i tell you about the great shipwreck in kythira, where the ships were leaving from turkey, from smyrna, and they crashed on the rocks of kythira? no one saw them? no warships or frontex saw them? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. from january to june 2022, on average, five people die every day trying to cross our waters, the mediterranean. according to the unhcr, the total number of dead or missing in the mediterranean in 2022 is 2,000 people. and let's not hear about international law, what it says and so on. we have been talking, we have been saying for years, that we want safe and legal ways of immigration. you said it yourself. but we'll totally agree. does the right, which pretends not to understand, agree? that's the whole point. we have seen here many times that smugglers are operating under the noses of the state authorities, i do not know if even under the noses of frontex. that's why i gave you the example of the cytherae. i shall end as i began, with mrs metsola's words. mrs metsola gave a very good speech the other day and said: 'we are a generation of politicians who cannot ignore reality'. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but that it should be involved in the legislative process, not just in describing reality, because this is a very serious matter. so, in conclusion, the demand is: integration, resettlement and, of course, legal ways of immigration.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, we welcome the bridgetown agenda proposed by prime minister of barbados, mia mottley, as the first step towards an international financial system fit for the 21st century. a few months ago, at cop27, we arrived at the historic, brave and just recognition of the liability of the global north for loss and damage in the global south. the idea is that those most affected by climate change are those least responsible for it and least able to adapt and should not be forced deeper into our debt to pay for the damage we inflicted upon them. as tropical storms increase in frequency and catastrophic intensity due to climate change, caribbean islands endure billions in damages and are obliged to take on unsustainable debt for humanitarian aid and reconstruction. hurricane maria, in 2017, brought usd 1.3 billion of damage, and that is two and a half times the annual gdp of dominica. clearly, the unfccc’s means to address loss and damage are exhausted. this is why we must push for a new climate bretton woods, a radical transformation of the global financial architecture with climate justice at the forefront and debt relief to provide the fiscal space to invest in just transition adaptation and civic protection for those that need it most. we must also heed the calls of mia mottley to place a loss and damage levy on fossil fuel companies, bearing in mind that, in 2022, total global north to south climate finance was usd 90 billion, which is a quarter of the profits of just six fossil fuel companies, which were usd 360 billion. clearly, it is time to end the current neoliberal global economic order, which has prioritised corporate profits over democratic development and is endangering human health, planetary integrity and global peace. this new financial architecture must be based on principles of equity, solidarity and sustained common progress within our common planetary boundaries. by prioritising climate justice, debt cancellation and systemic transformation of the financial system, we cannot build a sustainable and just world for all. so, dear commissioner, 2023 is critical, and as a major donor to the world bank, we urge you to lead an ambitious reform with people, democracy and planet at its heart.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, dear colleagues, f-gases are used in many applications, from medical devices to heat pumps, refrigeration and switchgears. their reduction is crucial, as they are several thousand times stronger than carbon dioxide. by supporting this report, we have the opportunity to help our climate targets and secure a safe environment. however, we are not only supporting the environment, but we are also supporting the industry and giving a clear direction. we are supporting leading eu manufacturers who are global frontrunners in clean alternatives, and who are showing the way to other manufacturers worldwide. we support the fundamentals of the compromise text from the committee on environment, public health and food safety (envi), as it is important to give a clear message for this direction to all parts of the industry and provide solid ground for all eu companies, especially the smes. for the epp, it was important to table very specific amendments – some jointly with renew – to ensure that those who have not yet moved to clean alternatives have the time to do so safely, by taking into consideration the safety concerns, energy efficiency and the priority targets. i would like to thank the envi rapporteur, bas eickhout, and the rest of the shadows for their help during the conciliations. i would also like to thank the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) rapporteur, sara skyttedal, for her valuable contribution. i would like to ask you all to vote in favour of the proposal, the specified epp group amendments, and to support this report as a whole.
in writing. it is unacceptable that women are currently paid on average 13% less than men for work of equal value. the pay gap has an impact on women's quality of life, increasing their risk of poverty and the pension gap, where women receive 30% lower pensions than men. women are hit hard by gender stereotypes that perpetuate discrimination in the labour market. they are overrepresented in low-wage sectors and underrepresented in high-level positions. they are more vulnerable to parttime and seasonal work and are more at risk of redundancy, precisely because they have multiple roles and responsibilities, due to motherhood and family care, a permanent informal and unpaid work. the directive on the application of the principle of equal pay for men and women for work of equal value is an important step towards eliminating these stereotypes and inequalities. it is our duty to ensure that women have equal access to career advancement and positions of responsibility, and equal pay for work of equal value, by strengthening mechanisms to enforce pay transparency, by imposing sanctions on employers who engage in gender discrimination and by encouraging society to condemn such practices. this problem is not only a social justice issue, but also has a positive impact on the eu economy.
mr president, the fit for55 strategy, the green transition strategy, instead of taking real environmental protection measures, rewards groups for polluting without impact or at some minimal cost, and this is always returned to them as a green subsidy. the people, on the other hand, pay a lot more, with the same resources - with cars, with green tiles, with huge expenditure on green building standards, vehicles that the borrower is forced to make, if he does not have them, with the passenger's rollover costs, paying for the price of tickets, while shipowners are spinning out subsidies and tax breaks. even the carcinogenic and hazardous incineration of waste is defiantly included in the european union's green best practices. these anti-people commitments as a common programme have been undertaken by new democracy, syriza, pasok, and para25, whatever government emerges in greece in the next elections. with a stronger kke, the people can escalate the struggle for their modern needs, for the protection of the environment, fighting for the conversion of energy, natural resources into social popular property, with central planning in the service of their own popular needs.
mr president, a just transition is at the heart of the european green deal and must be carried out in such a way that no one is left behind, especially the most vulnerable. those who are least responsible for emissions are exposed to greater damage and losses and have the least opportunity to invest to break free from carbon, energy and transport poverty. social climate projects must be the fruit and vehicle of genuine consultation, tools of public engagement and the cultivation of energy democracy and climate justice. so let the member states be very careful to get this money to those who need it most, through structural investment in self-generation, energy upgrading of homes and public low-carbon mass transport. i am sure that in the hands of the next greek government, with the aim of justice everywhere, this fund will be another important tool.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the border between greece and the community is not closed. it is regrettable that, on the initiative of mr papademos, among others, today's report on the guidelines includes paragraph 48, which proposes that the fence on the external borders should not be financed from community funds. after all, this was the immigration policy of the government of alexis tsipras, an open-border policy that led to the migration crisis. and then 75% of the migrants in europe came through greece. today, thanks to the policy of the mitsotakis government, this percentage is below 10% and the migratory flows have been reduced by 90% due to the fence on evro. and when greece received this coordinated hybrid threat from turkey in 2020, which was met with great success, the fence had a significant contribution to it. the question of whether the fence on evros is effective and necessary has been answered by the figures, the facts and the people of evros. the mitsotakis government is determined to upgrade and extend the fence on evros to protect the borders, not only of greece, but of the whole of europe, if necessary with greek taxpayers' money. the question now is: will the european union take up its self-evident obligation to protect its borders in evros by financing the fence from the european budget? - yes or no ?
blue-card speech. – i would like to ask you to explain a little bit. what do you mean? what is the relationship of greta thunberg to the ipcc? do you think that she is a scientist… that she is part of the scientific process of the ipcc? i would not comment on your characterisation of her as a hysterical person. i also think that she has grown beyond school age by now.
mr president, dear colleagues, i have one minute, one more time to talk about the implications of the sixth and final ipcc synthesis report of our collective scientific knowledge on the effects of our actions on our only habitat, planet earth. to summarize, instead of more words, i should ask us all to stand for a minute of silence for the world of cars and fires that we will deliver to our own children, as the report shows, and as the graph shows by my colleague, michael bloss, before us. i will not. because we colleagues are democratically elected representatives of people we have a duty to protect. this is happening on our watch, the last watch still able to divert barbarism. make no mistake: the social tipping points will crash as well before the rapidly approaching climate tipping points. there was a slogan in 1968 in paris, in a revolt then as it is now: socialisme ou barbarie. to me, it means that climate justice across generations, classes and nations is the only path to adequate climate action. it means that it is time to put people, our people, before profits. i am really proud of the change of direction in climate action this mandate has achieved, but we need to do more, faster and better. we need systemic change now, as science shows, as markets expect, as humanity needs and as our moral duty demands of us.
madam president, commissioner, year after year, a number of us in this house have called for partial conditionality of funding to the palestinian authority in order to secure the removal of anti-semitic content from the school textbooks. year after year, a majority in this house refuses to do so. the eu—commissioned georg eckert institute study was very clear that palestinian textbooks contain anti-semitic references and incitement to hatred based on international standards, and the eu is very clear that we have a zero tolerance approach to anti-semitism. so now is the time to join the dots. zero tolerance means anti-semitic rhetoric must be removed from the textbooks used by the palestinian authority. so the amendment tabled by the s&d to not only delete the reference in the discharge report, but to do so in a way that wilfully misrepresents the results of the georg eckert study must be opposed. in authorising the discharge of eu funds, dear colleagues, as parliamentarians, we are asked to judge their effectiveness. partial conditionality to ensure the removal of anti-semitic content in palestinian textbooks – it’s not just about effectiveness, it is about morality. so please let us do the right thing.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after six years of delay, the european union is ratifying the istanbul convention, the first legally binding international instrument to prevent and combat violence against women and girls. it's a historic day in the fight against gender-based and domestic violence. the ratification of the convention is a crucial step towards protecting the rights of women and victims of violence across the european union. it strengthens the protection of all victims and the prevention and prosecution of these heinous crimes in an integrated manner in all member states of the european union. i am very proud to have made a decisive contribution with my report on the impact of domestic violence, to have had the honour of being rapporteur for the european parliament, and to have achieved this historic development with the pressure of the whole parliament. the ratification of the convention by the european union is a great victory for progressive political forces against conservatism and backwardness, and the six member states which have not yet done so must ratify the convention without delay.
mr president, the situation of the working families is truly tragic. the income barely reaches the middle of the month. it's consumed by high inflation, intolerable precision in food, consumer goods, energy, overpriced rents. so the workers fall into the clutches of the banks, trying to cover daily needs with credit cards and consumer loans. what the directive is trying to do is to secure the claims of banks against borrowers, with the aim of protecting their profitability from possible default. it is a necessary complement to the anti-people bankruptcy law of the new democracy, the commission's recommendations, the ecb's interest rate increases, which are making red loans gigantic and thus throwing thousands of people out of their homes for debts of even 800 euros, to protect the groups in the face of the crisis. the people have nothing to look forward to. the fight against the interests of the groups requires a real increase in income, the prohibition of the auctioning of popular property, the cancellation of debts, the abolition of vat and excise duties on popular goods, fuel and energy, modern and cheap housing.
mr president, here in the european parliament we have discussed many times the accession of the western balkans and greece has been a country of hurry. the recent decision of an albanian court rejecting the request for the release of the elected mayor of himar, freddy beleri, is a major development in albania's accession process, because the decision is in direct contradiction with the european acquis, which the albanian authorities must respect, and undermines the fundamental principles of the rule of law. the european parliament, the council and the commission have adopted a resolution on the situation in albania, calling on the albanian authorities to respect the outcome of the local elections in may and to ensure the inauguration of the elected mayor of himara. the greek prime minister kyriakos mitsotakis has made it clear from the outset that we will not allow the violation of the fundamental rights of freddy beleri and of the greek minority in albania. i therefore ask you to join me in sending a loud message to the albanian authorities regarding the beleri case. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of personal data are respected. at this point, what is required is action.
madam president, 30 days of hammering in the gaza strip. the occupying israel is exterminating the palestinian people. in the west bank, he kills, displaces, rapes in a real apartheid regime. and as the council has decided, the european union supports israel politically, economically, militarily and recognizes the conqueror's defiant right to self-defense. the european union, the united states, nato have enormous responsibilities to support the slaughter of the palestinian people and their children. millions of people protesting against slaughter, against occupation, unacceptable and slanderously, are labeled as pro-terrorists, anti-semites, beaten and arrested. as the israeli state is working to displace palestinians from gaza, a new reactionary immigration agreement is being promoted. member states are freezing asylum for palestinian refugees, building prisons in third countries, violating refugee rights and escalating repression. the story has a right side. the palestinian people's resistance and struggle to stop the massacre in gaza, an end to the illegal occupation, an independent, sustainable palestinian state on the border of 67 with the capital of east jerusalem, next to israel.
madam president, five and a half thousand children have been murdered by the israeli occupying state. gaza is under siege. they're bombing schools, hospitals, maternity facilities. the genocide is a consequence of the right to self-defense that the european union has recognized in israel, which supports the conqueror. now he's gonna take care of the kids? hypocrisy is a sight to behold. we must stop the massacre in gaza now, because the children of palestine are our children. the resolution also makes the european union and the urban governments ignorant because the children of poor families do not have hot food, infant care facilities, health services and therefore the people's income is being slashed, education and health are being underfunded and commercialized, the huge shortages of state support for families, public and private partnerships are sending a heavy bill to the people. this is the eu policy. the protection of children requires a different organisation of society, taking into account the needs of peoples and their children. the demands for the education, health and activities of children must therefore be strengthened so that they are the sole responsibility of the state with permanent staff. ensure an organised state scientific nutrition programme for all students without the involvement of private individuals.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a permanent climate crisis. unfortunately, in greece we have experienced extreme events with fires and rain, like janos and daniel. the european parliament calls for more steps, but they must be steady. we must balance the green transition with the socioeconomic conditions in question, as we can cause deindustrialization and energy poverty in ourselves. because, unfortunately, many countries around the world do not respect the environmental conditions that we apply. i therefore call on you to overturn the amendments we tabled as an epp which demonstrate the balance between green transition and economy and thus show the leading role of parliament. this year's climate change conference is an opportunity for global coordination to implement the paris agreement and i am particularly excited to participate in this mission, as there will also be a greek presence from the ministry of environment and energy and it will highlight both the strategy of prime minister kyriakos mitsotakis and greece's steps on the axes of the energy transition. because greece is now a hub of energy flexibility in the eastern mediterranean.
mr president, mr commissioner, the european union's budget for 2024 sends a clear message about the priorities of the european parliament. in a time of global instability and conflict, we have secured an additional eur 400 million for humanitarian aid and foreign policy priorities. to strengthen europe's competitive advantage, we have secured an additional eur 100 million for research and technology investment and additional funding for political protection, for young farmers and for participants in the popular erasmus programme. although we have achieved significant concessions from the council in relation to the 2024 budget, our work is not finished. we need to secure additional funding for the european union solidarity fund, which supports member states such as greece in dealing with the effects of the climate crisis, and ensure that member states at the external borders of the european union have sufficient resources to deal with migratory flows. in the negotiations on the revision of the multiannual financial framework, we must therefore continue to pressure the council to commit more funds. we are also responsible as elected representatives of the european parliament for securing funding for the priorities of the citizens of the union. i welcome, therefore, what we have achieved so far in the union's 2024 budget. we continue our task by actively demanding additional resources in the context of the review of the multiannual financial framework to honour the confidence of european citizens.
mr president, i am not going to say anything. this debate is always very emotional, and i do not think there is anyone in this chamber who thinks that any civilian death is not too much. if it can be avoided, it must be avoided. but the rhetoric is a little lost. for example, when the un secretary-general says that "we are witnessing the greatest loss of civilians. it's completely without parallel. this is unprecedented in my time as secretary-general". let us remind him and him that while he was secretary-general, the conflict in syria is still ongoing. 500,000 died. the conflict in yemen is not solved, 377,000 dead. afghanistan, 100 076 dead. dafur 300 000 died, iraq 400 000 died and congo over 660.000 people died. there's a striking difference between when muslims kill muslims, when arabs kill arabs, and when israelis try to fight hamas. in relation to the rhetoric we hear here in this house, in relation to the rhetoric we hear from the united nations. let us remember that when asked whether the palestinians in gaza and the west bank supported the terrorist attack on 8 october, three out of four responded that they did. israel has a right to defend itself. we have a right to fight islamic terrorism, and we must do so until the fight is won.
mr president, mr borrell, you don't need a law degree to condemn the atrocities of israeli occupation in gaza. you don't have to. because they're spreading death to newborns, children, civilians, women, bombing hospitals, schools, with thousands of dead. one by one, the fake news of the israeli army that murdered even israeli civilians collapses, always with the well-known pretenses of self-defense to perpetuate the occupation. the aim is not hamas, but the abolition of an independent palestinian state, the clearing of gaza from palestinians to make it profitable for the israeli bourgeoisie, a trade and energy transit. we condemn projects supported by the european union and governments, such as the new democracy in greece. we demand an end to the military assault and occupation. no involvement or facilitation in the slaughter of the palestinian people. millions of protesters around the world are using dirty propaganda, defending the right of the palestinian people and demanding an independent palestinian state on the 1967 border with the capital east jerusalem, with the release of political prisoners and the return of refugees to their homes.
mr president, on 19 october we adopted by an overwhelming majority in this european parliament a resolution condemning the attacks of hamas and echoing the suffering of the palestinian people as hamas's human shield. but of the 20 members who voted against that resolution in absolute minority in this parliament, two have been appointed ministers of the government of spain. mr borrell explained that it was very difficult for him to reach agreement within the european council. but how can it do so if the spanish government holds the presidency of the european council with these two ministers? parliament has done its job. our president was where he should have been at the beginning, as was the president of the commission. financial funds have also been launched. we're here to help. but this is the european story: here we are debating again after two weeks, i don't know why, when all we have to do is find solutions. financial aid, european presence... it has been the united states and other countries that have achieved this humanitarian pause. where were we? that is the explanation, with this european council we have.
mr president, there is no doubt that the main culprit in the situation in gaza is the united states, which has financed the taliban in afghanistan and hamas to harm fatah and arafat. the report also highlights the importance of the european union's efforts to promote the peace process. we are also asking ourselves, mr borrell, how the european union supports, negotiates and finances this dictator. as far as i can tell, the european union should not accept any muslim extremists on its territory, especially since no arab country does. it's a shame, instead of talking about deportations, that some people are planning the arrival of other illegal immigrants in our neighborhoods.
mr president, ‘bring them back home’ – that was the desperate cry of the families of the hostage that were brutally abducted by the terrorist organisation hamas when it launched its heinous attack on israel on 7 october. today, it appears 50 hostages are going to be released as part of a deal that includes the release of 150 palestinian prisoners in a four-day humanitarian pause. and of course, we welcome this development and hope it leads to more positive developments. israel has indicated its willingness to continue to discuss the humanitarian pauses in exchange for release of the hostages. today, i would like us not to forget that there are another 200 families that are desperate at this moment, that are in excruciating pain, that are wondering about their loved ones, and to them, i would like to say that ‘bring them home’ means ‘bring them all back home’.
mr president, mr commissioner, when a leftist agrees completely with mr lenaers, who is from the epp, do you not realize that somewhere there is a truth? that the committee here, the members of the pega committee, have worked too hard and very hard, all the colleagues of the democratic arrow, and are dissatisfied with your work? and here in my own country, i want to tell you that a month ago, a court inquiry was ordered against two members of the house of representatives of the european union, mrs aikaterin papanakoula and stefan gryzalis, by the former prosecutor of the free state, mr isidoro dogyako. it should be noted that this investigation concerns the exercise of their duties as members of the authority. what are we gonna tell them? that we have here taken a european parliament decision and the commission is in a state of disrepair? that it is a blind eye to the fact that various member states, governments that are hurrying to amend laws, target institutional acquisitions, try to cover up scandals with unfair pressures and facilitate the export of illegal software? i would like to thank the commissioner for his excellent report. so you become part of the problem.
mr president, the pega report recognised the extensive surveillance systematically carried out by the national intelligence service, under the responsibility of the new republic government and the prime minister's staff, against political figures, parties and journalists, at the expense of workers' and people's movement activists. the commission therefore considers that the commission should be able to assess the compatibility of the measures with the internal market. in any event, monitoring by government services is not carried out in an empty air. it is based on a legislative framework that has been established over time by all the governing parties, and the european union. moreover, pega's finding also accepts the unacceptable legislative framework that legitimizes surveillance by calling it "spying". it is therefore calling for the application of the regulation allowing the use, deployment and export of spyware and not for its prohibition. we are therefore not surprised that the commission has not taken action. "a crow's eye doesn't come out, as our people say. the commission has therefore decided to take the necessary measures to prevent the spread of the disease in the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, today's debate is an excellent opportunity to restore the truth. and the truth is that the european parliament, this temple of democracy, has recently become a theatre for national micro-political purposes, mainly because of the desperate attempt to target my country by specific political groups. a country with a traditional commitment to upholding european values and the rule of law and a government which, not only has tightened its legislation by banning the use of surveillance software, strengthened institutional barriers and reformed the control of security services, but also works constructively with all the institutions of the european union, and which, of course, awaits the verdict of the court before which the case is being handed down in order to dispel this cloud of legitimacy. i am not going to say that i am not going to be able to do this.
mr president, gender-based violence is the most extreme form of inequality against women and of violation of their fundamental rights. the official figures in the european union are shocking. one in three women has been a victim of physical or sexual violence, in many cases by her partner or ex-partner. but two out of three do not file a complaint. this cruel reality has its roots in patriarchal thinking, but also in the outdated and dangerous perceptions that women are inferior to men and are their property. we must therefore give immediate answers to correct the distortions and gaps in european legislation. we must ensure that the directive on violence against women is ambitious, that it provides effective protection and support for victims and women and children, that it prevents such crimes and proposes prevention. and finally, make sure he defines the crime of rape on the basis of consent, so that it's clear to everyone that no means no.
madam president, the report reveals the anti-people objectives of taxation of the european union, of the urban governments at the expense of the people, as with the bloody surpluses of the new republic government: recovering and attracting entrepreneurship, hymns to the benefits of remote working with new tax breaks for economic groups and their executives. it calls for additional environmental taxation for the people to fund green predatory groups, while giving incentives for green capital investment. it is a provocative narrative that the abolition of unfair indirect taxes is supposedly in the rich's favor, while self-employed workers and farmers see their incomes skyrocketed by liabilities, inflation, direct and indirect taxation. the poverty of the many is the result of the gain of the few. this is what the european union, the local governments and the tax system are perpetuating. the workers and self-employed farmers must oppose the strategy of the european union, of governments and monopolies, to demand real wage increases, a tax-free limit of €12 000 per child, the abolition of indirect taxes on energy and fuel, vat on consumer goods, to demonstrate in large numbers on 15 december.
she was the author of the opinion of the international trade committee. mr president, in july china announced a partial ban on french exports. china produces 80% of the world's french. for many critical raw materials, such as rare earths and magnesium, china supplies almost 100% of the european union's needs. critical raw materials are vital for the green and digital transition. they are necessary for the production of batteries, electric vehicles, wind turbines and mobile phones. the critical raw materials act will help us to secure sufficient supplies and reduce the dangerous dependence on a single supplier. the production of more critical raw materials within the european union is part of the solution. greece has the capacity to produce enough french to meet the entire needs of the european union. today, the european parliament sends a clear message that the european union is ready to address vulnerabilities in the supply chains of critical raw materials. the operation on critical raw materials must now be supported by new sources of funding.
on behalf of the left. i would like to thank the rapporteur, the rapporteur and the staff for their hard work. but let us not remain in the obvious. the earth is spinning, so let's move on. i would like to put four or five notes that are of value to me and my political group. the first is that patients can restrict access to their data at will and maintain their right to information. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 of regulation (ec) no 1272/2008 and with the opinion of the committee on budgetary control and the committee on budgetary control. thirdly, the prohibition of interconnecting the various welfare and wellbeing applications with electronic registers; fourthly, the drastic restriction of secondary use of health data to avoid discrimination against citizens in all areas of social action; fifthly, the maintenance of registers exclusively within our union and of course the provision for the consent mechanism in the processing of genetic data and data by two banks. finally, although i think the text is much better, improved, i think it is not too late for some final improvements and i therefore call on you to support the points on which we have asked for a separate vote.
mr president, mr commissioner, remote workers are six times more likely to work in their spare time and twice as likely to work 48 or more hours a week. the extra workload and long hours spent in front of a computer screen place a significant burden on their physical and mental health. as the european parliament, we have asked since january 2021 to have the right to disconnect enshrined in union law. it was wrong to be delayed for three whole years. the social dialogue of the european social partners, which started in june 2020, was launched on the responsibility of european employers' organisations, as expected, and we simply wasted time. the delay has resulted in the absence of regulation of telecommuting at eu level to date, workers continue to be treated differently in the member states and are unprotected from uncontrolled exploitation by employers. we call on you to propose immediately, before the end of this legislative period, a directive establishing the right of workers to disengage ... (the president removes the speaker's speech)
mr president, israel's atrocities in gaza break every barrier of horror: 18,000 dead, half civilians, 7,000 infants and children killed by occupying forces' bombs, even in cold weather by snipers. the eu, the us, nato support the massacre, whether on the pretext of the claimed right of self-defense of the occupied israel and its political, economic, military support, or unofficially, as the us and the eu member states have even voted for the ceasefire. they have heavy responsibility for the genocide at the expense of the palestinian people. they're complicit in war crimes. you do not see the thousands of palestinians who are being held in israeli prisons for years without trial, among them minors, women, patients, in dire conditions. the people are expressing their solidarity with the resistance of the palestinians, against israeli lies and propaganda, against the massacre in gaza, the long-term occupation, illegal settlements, for the release of all political prisoners, the return of refugees, for a free homeland, an independent palestinian state on the 1967 border with the capital east jerusalem.
mr schmit, commissioner, colleagues, according to eurostat, about 10% of young people in the european union live in households that spend 40% or more of their disposable income on housing. the lack of real access to affordable and decent housing, coupled with youth unemployment, is becoming a pan-european issue. a question that challenges the ability of young people to spread their wings and live their lives independently, as they have dreamed of. i am glad that important steps have been taken at national level. in greece, in particular, the government of kyriakos mitsotakis is implementing an ambitious social housing strategy with a priority on young people. a holistic strategy, aimed at enabling them to acquire or rent a home at the lowest possible cost, through specific actions such as loans for housing and using european funds to make use of existing and new private homes, as well as financing massive renovations and energy upgrades of long-term vacant properties. but european issues also require european action. i therefore call on the commission to present an integrated strategy with a main focus on strengthening and facilitating access to affordable housing for young people.
in writing. the housing crisis is sweeping europe. housing costs have risen sharply from the explosion of accuracy, inflation and energy costs, while incomes remain stuck and the purchasing power of households, particularly low and middle income households, has been significantly reduced. the evidence is shocking: the european union has a very large number of refugees. almost 10% of the european population spends more than 40% of their income on housing needs, and find it difficult to keep their homes warm enough. in greece, 27% of the population is charged with housing costs in excess of 40% of their disposable income. the oecd is ringing the alarm: in the last 20 years, housing prices have risen three times faster than the incomes of citizens. as the european parliament, we called for european intervention in january 2021 to ensure the right to decent and affordable housing across europe. we invite you to adapt immediately the definition of beneficiaries of social and publicly funded housing to the rules on general economic compact services. the social housing funded must be extended to cover not only the weaker and most vulnerable groups but also those who are no longer able to cope with the high costs.
mr president, in international law, in union law and in the law of the member states, all children must have the same rights without discrimination. in practice, however, when a family is in a crossborder situation because it moves from one member state to another either to travel or to stay, it risks losing recognition of the parental relationship established in one member state. it is unthinkable that a parent in one member state should not be recognised as a parent in another member state. this unacceptable reality, which mainly affects lotky families, can have a negative impact on two million children in the european union. it must be ensured that no child is discriminated against because of his birth or the type of family in which he was born and raised. if you are a parent in one european country, you are a parent in all european countries. i am very proud that through my report on the impact of intercommunal violence and the rights of care for women and children, i have pushed for this regulation and the european parental certificate to come that protect the fundamental rights of the child.
on behalf of the left. the commissioner, the minister, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commissioner, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the commission, the governments think we're attacking the country. we're not attacking the country. we are not going to be able to do this. i do not want to get into the debate at all whether it is a friendly or a negative government. last week, nine of my slovak colleagues confirmed in a letter of condolence what the most authoritative reports and the most serious independent authorities have repeated for years: that the rule of law is sick in slovakia. however, instead of a cure, the country's prime minister is preparing to administer the lethal injection. it bothers us and, to a certain extent, frightens us. after the latest developments with mr fico's insistence on the de facto abolition of the special corruption prosecutor's office and the special criminal court, the mandate from bratislava is unfortunately very bad. the government is moving the country away from the eu's democratic acquis and attaching it to the cart of anti-european urbanism. that's the danger. finally, because it is our responsibility to fight for the future of europe and for the slovak people, the polish people, the hungarian people, the greek people and all of us, for our one home, the manipulation of justice has no place in this house called the european union. as much as some may doubt it, the discussion of the obvious has long since ended.
mr president, mr commissioner, another climate change conference has come to an end. this time, 200 countries, developed and developing, energy independent and non-energy independent, small and large, agreed that by 2050 we must stop using fossil fuels as a means of energy, and that we must move even faster and emissions beyond carbon dioxide and especially methane should be significantly reduced by 2030. the agreement also involved representatives of children, the elderly, the disabled, indigenous people and groups directly affected by the climate crisis that is present. in this dialogue i had the honour of representing the european parliament on behalf of the european people's party and of hearing the same anxiety from everywhere. the transition must be fair and functional for all. so we have an agreement that puts the planet on track to achieve clean zero emissions by 2050. from now on, we must ensure its implementation through implementing instruments such as greece's ambitious national action plan on energy and climate. but above all, we must continue to fight for the european green deal to become global, while preventing unfair competition from european companies from third countries which are not bound by these obligations.
