mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the single market is one of the european union's greatest achievements and the area in which it has the greatest potential for action. it is thanks to the single market that european citizens can move freely, study, work and do business in different member states. it creates 56 million jobs and generates a large percentage of european gdp. citizens can now use their phones in the european union without fear of high bills, recognition of qualifications makes it easier for them to find employment in the member states, and soon they will be able to use a single charger. however, despite the many benefits it brings, the single market is often unjustifiably neglected and taken for granted, even in the european parliament. the 30th anniversary of its foundation is therefore an excellent opportunity to make the single market a real political priority. in a substantially changed environment, we must work diligently to remove remaining bureaucratic obstacles, while ensuring the highest level of consumer protection. whether it's food labeling, protection from unjustified price hikes, or a current account write-off. i also strongly welcome the european commission's proposal to create an emergency instrument. the free movement of people, goods, services, capital must work in times of crisis if we do not want european integration to collapse and the continent to sink into chaos. the success of the single market is the key to europe's competitiveness in global competition and the key to preserving the living standards of european citizens.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much for this very useful debate. unshell is part of our european union toolbox, a toolbox of measures aimed at fighting abusive tax practices. it’s about the lack of revenue for our welfare states. it’s about the lack of fairness in our markets. and it’s the sheer injustice of some thinking that they should not contribute to our societies. it is a toolbox that is not complete. it needs to be completed by other initiatives, notably to tackle the use of non—eu shell entities. i once again welcome your suggestions for this proposal. and i want to thank you for your steadfast dedication to fight tax avoidance, to fight tax evasion, for tax justice to be the rule of the european union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 17 january 2023. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs pernille weiss, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on shipments of waste and amending regulation (eu) no 1257/2013 and regulation (eu) 2020/1056 (com (2021) 0709 - c9-0426/2021 - 2021/0367cod) (a9-0290/2022).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, let me thank the european parliament for the very comprehensive work that has gone into this file. my thanks go in particular to pernille weiss and her team, together with all the shadow rapporteurs for their very full scrutiny of this proposal for new eu rules on waste shipments. the progress you have made so far is very welcome, and we particularly appreciate parliament’s strong support in keeping the essential elements that form the heart of the commission proposal. reducing the eu environmental footprint linked to the export of waste to third countries, building up a robust eu market for waste, going for recycling and addressing waste trafficking, which is one of the most prevalent forms of environmental crime. stricter controls on our waste exports will make sure that we take responsibility of the waste produced in the eu. the regulation as a whole has great potential to accelerate the transition to a more circular and climate-neutral economy. facilitating the shipment of waste for recycling within the eu will help with the decarbonisation of eu industry, as waste reuse and recycling are both far less co2-intensive than the use of primary raw materials. finally, legal shipments: potentially compromising up to 30% of waste shipments worth 9.5 billion annually. and we need to step up action on waste trafficking. the commission will support investigations by member states on transnational crime linked to waste trafficking with the support of the eu anti-fraud office. i also thank the parliament for highlighting the important links between waste shipments and waste policy in general and climate change mitigation, global sustainable development and labour rights. and let me briefly mention two elements of your report which we will need to monitor very carefully in the course of further interinstitutional discussions and negotiations. so we take note of your call for a stricter approach on the export of plastic waste. the commission will look into this very carefully and will have to consider the legal implications of this amendment, especially its compatibility with the eu’s international commitments. we need to fully assess if a blanket ban on the general export of plastic waste would be necessary and provide a better solution than the measures the commission proposed to achieve our policy objectives. respecting the eu’s international obligations will be, of course, key in this context. i would also like to add a word of caution on the tasks you expect the commission to perform once the regulation is adopted. some of the changes proposed in your report would create a substantial additional workload for the commission, needing a considerable increase in staff with expenditure for heading seven already close to the ceiling set for the mff. the resource implications of the proposed amendments needs to be very carefully considered. honourable members, our waste is our responsibility. letting waste pollute the environment and end up in illegal dumpsters or in our oceans is a real loss of resources which are precious for the eu’s transition to a circular economy. and this proposal is a decisive move to create the most advanced waste shipment system in the world and bring this system to the digital era, too. our goal is to make sure that waste generated in the eu is managed in a sustainable way so that it does not harm nature and health, but opens up new opportunities for green growth and innovation. and i am confident that we can achieve swift progress towards finalising the negotiations on this regulation. the sooner the new harmonised rules start applying, the better. my team and i are ready to continue providing every support necessary. we look forward to start to the trilogue negotiations as soon as possible and we hope that the council would also be ready to do so without delay. thank you. and i, of course, now look forward to hearing your views.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the sensitive discipline we are dealing with, the discipline of waste management and recycling, is one of the most compelling topics in the debate on the future of sustainability, especially from the economic and industrial point of view in europe. we must - and this is being achieved in this area - encourage the free movement of waste so that those who are able to recover and recycle it in a sustainable way are able to do so. but there is one very important industrial fact on which we have taken the liberty of making a few amendments. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry did not suffer material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. this is the crucial point on which we have taken the liberty of pointing out that the export of this raw material, rather than this waste, could favour countries which, by treating it in a way that is much less sustainable than in europe, then produce steel which is then sold in europe at very low prices, having been produced without respecting the environmental rules that we respect. it is very important that, on the specific issue, not so much to create a separate discipline, but because about 60% of the exported waste is exactly of this nature, it is very important that there is a particular attention on this issue, not to reduce the freedom of movement of waste or raw material, but to promote the best sustainable european industry, particularly in the steel sector.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, if there is one thing we all seem to know how to do, it is to keep our homes clean and then come and get up from what is happening outside our door. and to this day, so is european waste policy. but for now, let's put it this way. so, because we live in one world and pollution in one part of the world affects everyone. so, because we care about the health and rights of those living in developing countries; and so, because every piece of waste in the european union should be regarded as a resource. everything has a use and the circular economy we talk and dream about can only become a reality if we stop once and for all the non-standard landfills we are creating around the world in the countries that need the most help and not garbage. mr president, it was a pleasure for me to negotiate this law, together with pernille and my other colleagues, to achieve the best for our environment and for the health of all citizens, even those living far away from it. and let me boast of the three biggest achievements we will be making if we are given the credit for the work we have done over the past year. firstly, we will stop the export of plastic waste out of the european union once and for all. commissioner, this is toxic waste. it is leading to the alteration of natural habitats, affects biodiversity, reduces the ability of ecosystems to adapt to climate change and has a negative impact on food production and social justice. when i proposed this step, i encountered a lot of resistance. but today we have an absolute majority of the political groups in this house who agree with me and say the same thing about plastic. secondly, any other waste that goes outside the european union should only go to plants that have the same european standards as ours. we can never accept that what is done in our house, that we do not accept what is done in our house, we should not accept it anywhere else in the world. and finally, we are cutting red tape within the european union so that waste, this resource, can move from one country to another in the european union much more easily. and so, i encourage you tomorrow to join us in voting for the environment, for our health and for the environmental economy.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, a short word to begin with to thank our rapporteur, mrs weiss, for her spirit of openness, her spirit of compromise which has enabled us to achieve a collective result of which we can be proud. we have set ambitious goals with this major reform of european waste transfer rules: better protection of the environment and health, and the avoidance of some countries remaining the world's garbage. and the challenge is great: in 2020, our exports of waste to third countries exceeded 32 million tons. it's hard to imagine. we added several bricks to the legislative text proposed to us by the commission in november 2021, starting with what is one of my main political battles: the elimination of plastic pollution on the planet. the end of the export of plastic waste to third countries will be a reality three years after the entry into force of this regulation, four years for the oecd countries. the fight against plastic pollution, which takes between 100 and 1,000 years to degrade and kills our oceans, is global: it must be total. there are of course other advances in our text: i am thinking of the outright ban on the export of hazardous waste to third countries (china, india, certain countries on the african continent) or the urgent request to the commission for increased monitoring of waste exported to the oecd countries (the united states, japan, israel, turkey, above all). i conclude on the paradigm shift that is taking place and for the better in the european union. with china closing its recycling market two years ago, which has caused a real upheaval in the global market, and with natural resources running out, europe has understood that it must take its destiny into its own hands and protect its internal market. as far as waste is concerned, this means tougher conditions for exports - what we do - and better value for money at home, so that this waste becomes a usable and sustainable resource. this will also benefit a great many sectors of industry.
the european union is dumping millions of tonnes of plastic waste in countries outside the eu that are totally unable to cope with it. we all know the horrible images of plastic on the beaches. we know about the giant garbage belts in, for example, turkey, where that plastic waste is buried in the ground or incinerated. and where it is processed, it is often in very dangerous working conditions, and often with child labour. that is completely unacceptable. if we burn that plastic waste or put it underground, we create air pollution, we pollute the soil, we emit dangerous substances. this giant waste problem is our responsibility. belgium is one of the top ten exporters of plastic waste. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal to tackle the dumping of waste and its illegal export. we have worked with parliament to make this proposal more precise in key areas. i am very pleased with the cooperation between the various groups and i am glad that we have been able to convince them, in particular, of the following: a ban on exporting all plastic waste outside the eu because: 1) this is the best solution to our plastic problem, 2) we're finally taking our historic responsibility, and 3) it's really an incentive to start using less plastic, to design it better and also to tighten up our recycling capacity. i believe 100 percent that our industry can handle this and that it can be a benefit to our circular economy. i am also pleased that all waste treatment plants outside the eu must now meet the same high standards as the european one - something that was not originally in the proposal. it's time we clean up our own mess. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of taxation of the value of land and buildings.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, let us be clear, this debate is taking place less to safeguard the interests of people and the environment, and more to safeguard the interests of a few, a few, who see the waste business as a way to fill their pockets even more. a market worth tens of billions of euros, which the european union's so-called green policies favour and seek to expand: restricting exports to those with the least economic potential; maintaining the accumulation of profits in the internal market; increasing conditionality and interference with third countries; removing powers from the states, interfering in waste management in accordance with their interests, centralising them in the european commission. it is the liberalisation of this market which is the driving force and the focus of the proposal, ignoring the limitations and inefficiency of private waste management, but highly effective in maximising profits. it is profit and not real needs, also from an environmental point of view, that determines that a significant part of waste is directly transferred to landfill, with low multi-material recovery, without favouring reuse or recycling. this paradigm can only be changed by appropriate regulation and by strengthening the public dimension in waste management. one last note: we talk about the end of the line, but not the path. the responsibility of companies in the choice of materials, in increasing the durability of products, the fight against planned obsolescence, the non-transfer of costs to the populations of this market and the profits they want to ensure to some. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
mr president, commissioner sinkevičius, as i have warned the commission and jaspers on many occasions, waste management in croatia is still done in a very bad way. bad projects are still approved and they endanger the environment and destroy local communities that host them, since their operational costs are very high. in the latest case of the šagulje waste management centre, jaspers even allowed the implementation of the project contrary to the already adopted and existing spatial planning documents of counties and cities in croatia. is jaspers unable to read existing documents before approving projects? there are also many other problems. questionable technology approved by jaspers has led croatia into a situation that design and construction work is being given to companies without any experience in design, construction and management. all the details i have elaborated in the meetings and letters. there is no progress on this issue, despite written assurance given to me by the commission. in order to properly spend taxpayers’ money, but also to prevent that due jaspers croatia does not lose funds for the construction of wmcs from the opcc programme financial envelope, please take the appropriate steps. croatia needs and deserves better projects and it can be done since eu standards that are good do exist, but they are not followed in croatia.
mr. chairman, please. we are celebrating the 30th anniversary of the single market here today, and i would like to take this opportunity to say that it is very good for the european union that we have had this single market for so long. it is the crown jewel of european cooperation. but the handling and transport of our waste is actually a very crucial part of the success of the internal market. and that is why it is also important that we now look at these rules on waste transport carefully and thoroughly. over the last few years, we have become increasingly aware that waste is a resource. but it is also our responsibility first and foremost, and that is why i am very pleased that mrs weiss' report takes account of the fact that we have to deal with waste differently. i am very pleased that we are going to strengthen the circular economy and that we are actually tackling special plastic waste. plastic waste is something we generate in enormous quantities, and it should be the responsibility of the eu itself to deal with the plastic waste we generate. and we are saying this in the european parliament, with mrs weiss' report, that this is what we are going to make law. that's what we want to do something about. and then, hopefully, we can convince the council of the same. but it is crucial that we stop having to rely on others to take care of our waste. and i know it's hard. i know this can be difficult. i know there may be some business you've sent out of the eu. but we have a responsibility for our own waste, and that is why i support this report, because it is precisely what it does to ensure that we deal with special plastic waste.
mr. chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished citizens, plastic recycling is one of the biggest lies that is constantly being told. of the six basic types of plastic, only one single, five-pack, in which we buy our juice and water is recycled. the other five are not recycled or are only marginally recycled. what's happening to this waste? it's secretly, like in croatia, constantly being taken with other waste to municipal landfills, creating a hill, or in richer countries, that plastic waste is being taken to africa. the second biggest lie that has been told to the environment is that eliminating single-use plastic bags will reduce plastic waste. that, of course, is a lie. there's been a multiple increase in plastic waste because in many countries, every single apple, every single piece of meat is wrapped in plastic, and we're bringing home 80 percent more plastic than ever.
...the beginning of speech without a microphone... and the most incorruptible human beings, as well as the greatest wealth. which is why, wherever she was born, whatever her name was, they deserve our special protection. they are what we leave behind, they show how we lived, what values we instilled in them and what kind of people we raised them to be. the civilized strength of a society is therefore largely measured by how it treats the most vulnerable, the children. the born and the unborn, his own and the other's. and that is why the trafficking of children and the various related practices and the exploitation of children for ideological whims must be stopped. adoption is a noble act, but all suspicions of selling children under the guise of illegal international adoptions must be clarified and, if found guilty, punished most severely.
mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, in a new era of profound uncertainty, europe, as the best place in the world to live, must, if it is to remain so, take seriously the investment in its security, including border security, as well as the imperative of economic and technological competitiveness. in both areas, your presidency can put europe on the right track. so i welcome the focus on the issue of defence, on the issue of migration, on the issue of energy: domains that critically affect all of them and are a true test of both european politics and european civilisation. don't neglect engagement with our immediate neighbors -- bosnia and herzegovina and other countries in southeastern europe -- because it's crucial, because it's important, because it's something that concerns all of us. the czech presidency will be remembered by croatia as a very high-quality one, and i wish sweden much success in a difficult time. let's get back to our basics. common sense policies have eluded both sweden and europe. common sense policies will preserve europe.
mr vice-president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, on an annual basis, the market for video games in the european union is worth more than 23 billion euros, with a continuing trend of growth which is conducive to the creation of high-paying jobs. the fact is that video games are played by people of all age groups, however, a particularly vulnerable group among them are children who often develop a video game addiction and we need to protect them further. in this regard, i stress the importance of developing mechanisms for parental control of children's access to video games and the communication that children have when playing games. i therefore call on the european commission to present a european strategy for video games that would realise the full potential of this sector with a particular focus on child safety. this strategy should distinguish video games from games of chance, with the additional obligation for member states to create a safe environment for consumers in the field of games of chance as well. it's time to harness the potential of the video game industry, but at the same time ensure the protection of those who are most vulnerable - children.
as europe struggles with high inflation rates, an energy crisis and disruptions in food supply chains, the health systems of the member states are under increasing strain due to the rise in respiratory infections. in addition, the shortage of medicines is making health conditions worse. in addition to the lack of active ingredients in paracetamol, the report notes that patients are finding it increasingly difficult to access antibiotics and, for example, drugs used to treat breast cancer. in such circumstances, it is more important than ever to insist on the creation of a european health union that can respond to the challenges of shortages through common policies. the european union must provide much more financial assistance to member states to combat the shortage of health workers. moreover, through targeted industrial policy, we need to bring back to europe the production of key medicines such as antibiotics, the shortage of which is a growing problem because their production is now simply unprofitable. in short, much stronger incentives and support for the production of medicines in the eu are needed than we have now. the protection of the health of european citizens must not depend on third countries as is the case today.
the minutes of yesterday's sitting and the texts adopted are available. i see no objection to that. the minutes are approved.
the next item is the question time with questions to the commission pursuant to rule 137 of the rules of procedure. i welcome commissioner wojciechowski to this question time. the theme of this question time is 'food price inflation in europe'. the question period will last about 90 minutes, with one minute for the question, two minutes for the answer, 30 seconds for a supplementary question and two minutes for the answer. i would point out that a possible supplementary question is admissible only if it is closely related to the main question and does not contain a new question. if you have a question, i would ask you to register your request now by using the spontaneous voice mail function of your voting machine after you have inserted your voting card. during question time, you will be asked questions from your seat. i ask all speakers to respect their speaking time. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. so i ask you again to make your request now.
mr president, commissioner, we are aware of the rise in prices, the rise in energy prices, which have an impact on the rise in food prices. if you look at inflation, if you look at how much food is contributing to inflation, it's clear that food is actually contributing the most after energy costs. and that, of course, has a huge impact. it's impacting the consumer. but look at the beginning, and these are the first producers. these are farmers who are actually getting almost nothing from this increase. they're dependent on the purchase of their products. i would like to ask the commission, commissioner: how will you support the farmers, the farmers who are most affected by inflation, in this situation?
member of the commission. – thank you, ms šojdrová, for your question. yes, we can observe the increase of the food prices, that general inflation in european union is 11 %, comparing november 21 to november 22, that food inflation is 18.3 %. we can observe the different situations across the sectors, across the member states. but you’re right that farmers’ incomes were increased in last year, 13 %, but also there are differences across the member states, not everywhere they increased. but it is easy to observe that the increase of the farmers’ incomes is less than the increase of food prices. and increase of agriculture costs comparing 21 to 22, the cost of production is about a 30 % increase of agricultural prices, of agricultural products is 24 %. it shows that the increase of cost is not fully compensated by the increase of prices which farmers receive. and what we can do, of course, you know that fertiliser prices, this is the main factor of increase of the agricultural cost, also energy, what you say. we presented that our agriculture, our fertiliser communication, there is possible support at the member state level, support for the fertiliser producers, for the farmers, state aid for the farmers, possible amount eur 250 000 per individual farm. this is the main instrument which we propose. of course there is the common agricultural policy, you know the strategic plans, but it will be in the future in the coming years implemented.
commissioner, thank you for your answer, but i have a supplementary question. it is not clear from your answer whether you expect to take account of the impact of inflation on the financing of the common agricultural policy this year, 2023 and whether it is also possible to expect to extend the simplification of the conditions for the application of the common agricultural policy, which would of course also help farmers to cope with these conditions. can you answer me?
member of the commission. i can add to my answer - i will answer in polish right now - that in the fertilizers communication we presented incentives for member states to change their strategic plans. these plans, which came into force on 1 january, will set out the rules for the new common agricultural policy. and they include opportunities to make proposals that will make farmers less dependent on chemical fertilisers. they're the most important item in farmers' costs. for example, implementing programs that will allow us to produce more natural fertilizer. that is what we can do under the common agricultural policy. of course, many of the answers to this question lie outside the common agricultural policy and are not the direct responsibility of the commissioner for agriculture. we're aware of the energy costs. the various actions taken by the commission, e.g. the gas cost ceiling, gas prices - these are actions taken at the commission level. and in this case, the instruments of the common agricultural policy, plus public aid from the member states - that is what we can do in this short time.
we know, mr president, commissioner, that the major problem of food security in the european union is not so much the availability of food as the accessibility of it. these rising energy prices, the price of fertilisers, and also - it is good to say - some speculation in the markets have led to a rise in prices, and this is reflected and is conditioning especially for the most vulnerable families, and we know that these factors have a huge weight in the household expenditure on food. that is why, for example, in our group, the s&ds, we have been strongly advocating the creation of packages of measures in what we call a winter solidarity package for families and businesses, and we have also advocated permanent management instruments to support the labour market, limit energy prices, etc. all of this seems important to us. i would like to know from the commission what other measures can still be effectively implemented, and should be implemented, not only to support our farmers but also to help the most deprived families in the european union.
member of the commission. – thank you very much for this question and now, first of all, i’d like to mention that this situation is different across the member states. with regard to the increase in food prices, the eu average is 18.3%. but in all member states it’s more than 10%, but the least is in luxembourg, which is 10.8%, the highest inflation is now in hungary, 49.2%. look, i cannot exclude that speculation is one of the factors, it is possible, but the commission has no evidence that now the this this is the responsibility of the member states to act against the speculation on the market if this is indeed observed. there are also differences between types of products. for agricultural products, the main increase in prices is for cereals, about 45%, next is eggs and milk, more than 30%, and the rest less than 30%: potatoes, poultry, pig meat, beef, etc.
commissioner, i am on this side of the road, i don't know if you have seen where i am, since you have always looked in another direction, and not here exactly. i appreciate the detail of the information you brought. in any case, the question remains what more can the commission do to protect the interests of the most vulnerable consumers. but i appreciate your explanations and your details.
mr president, mr commissioner, if inflation is a problem in the european union, then in my country, croatia, it is a super problem. the last two months inflation is over 13 percent, and if we talk about the price of food, then it's a super mega problem for the simple reason that in addition to inflation which is a common european phenomenon, in croatia, we introduced the euro on 1 january [2023] and only then prices have exploded in these last two weeks. yes, some would say it was similar in other countries - in italy, in slovenia in 2007. three or four times the numbers were still less than today in croatia. that is why i ask the question: are you aware of this problem, this common, synergistic problem of inflation and rounding up because of the euro in croatia and, if you are aware, can you with some controls, measures, activities help to stop this unfortunate trend so that the most vulnerable citizens can live, i would say normally, and not sink into poverty?
member of the commission. i can confirm that there was indeed a problem in croatia before the euro was introduced, because croatia is among the countries with the highest price inflation. overall food prices rose by 19.8%, but some products rose more. 19.8% is about average inflation. i am not in a position to comment on what happens after the euro is introduced. i do not think that the commission has any more complete data to allow it to assess the situation. i've been listening to your information very carefully. this data i have is the latest available data this is a comparison of november 2022 to november 2021, and if you asked specifically about croatia, the inflation in terms of food price increases is 19.8%. this varies for different products, e.g. bread and cereal products increased by 27.7%, milk by 26.5%. other foods, fruits, vegetables, were much less affected.
mr commissioner, which confirms everything i have said, and i would ask you to give a very brief, concrete answer to the question whether you will make the fight against inflation, particularly as regards basic foodstuffs, a priority in the year '23 and if so, with what specific measures?
mr president, recent decisions by the high representative schmidt have made it possible for the legitimate representatives of the croat people in bosnia and herzegovina to participate in the executive. however, in the context of today's debate, we must make it clear that the stability of the european neighbourhood is possible only with a systematic reform of the electoral legislation of bih, which will ensure the equality of all three constituent peoples to the end. it is unacceptable that a disgraceful figure like željka neždić is still sitting in the presidency of bih. i therefore call on the european union to use all the tools at its disposal to complete the much-needed reform of the electoral legislation in bosnia and herzegovina, the latest candidate country for eu membership. in addition, as a representative from one of the smaller member states, i would like to stress that unanimity in the council is necessary for the decision-making on matters of common foreign and security policy. the independent foreign policy is a fundamental dimension of national sovereignty and a guarantee of the protection of national interests and cannot be replaced by decision-making based on a roll call.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is a manual of good intentions, but in practice it violates freedom of thought, conscience and religion. it points out those who do not share the ideological maxims oriented to the intersectional approach, green agendas or naturalization of the dramatic practice of abortion, in a supposed protection of unsafe abortions with the promotion of sexual and reproductive rights. this is contrary to the true original spirit of the 1948 universal declaration of human rights, which begins by quoting 'that freedom, justice and peace in the world are based on the intrinsic dignity and equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family'. in its article 3, it recalls that 'everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person'. we all begin our lives in our mother's womb. because, let us not forget, abortion always involves the extinction of a life. let us faithfully follow the dictates of the declaration and return to the culture of life, listening to the natural yearning of the human heart and, especially, our own, that of women.
mr president, europe is sworn to protect human rights and human dignity. we want to be the leaders of freedom and democracy in the world, we want to look up and judge others, but we are not able to clean up our own house. in the last two years, we have witnessed a great violation of human rights in the eu, and most of the mps did not even have the courage to write about it. when we talk about transparency and corruption, let's just think about how the heads of the european commission and the ceo of pfizer negotiated the vaccine deal, knowing that the product would not prevent the spread. speaking of freedom of expression, haven't many scientists and public figures been subjected to massive censorship and fact-checking terror? when we talk about human rights and children's rights: where were many when unscientific covid certificates were imposed, untested experimental drugs that we now know are ineffective and humiliating, dehumanizing masks for everyone and everywhere, when elected representatives were prevented from entering the parliament building and children from entering school, leaving lasting effects on children's psyches. he has no right to impose his vision of democracy on the world, who sells the rights of his citizens. we must be able to clean our own yard first. we can't do that with politicians without stance and strength. people, wake up now.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am glad that we can continue our dialogue on the situation of the rule of law in the various member states. as you know, i am at the disposal of your parliament in this respect, whether in plenary, in committee or in any other format. with regard to the situation in spain in particular, i would like to reiterate that we appreciate the willingness of the spanish authorities to have a dialogue with the commission on the reforms to be carried out. however, i would like to stress the importance of completing and implementing all the necessary reforms in the areas of the independence and efficiency of the judiciary, the fight against corruption, media freedom and the balance of power. in this respect, the commission, i would remind you, made several recommendations to the spanish authorities in its report on the rule of law last july. i would like to return to some of the points raised in the debate. as regards the council for the judiciary, both its renewal and its reform are essential. this is what the commission highlights in the rule of law report, and this is part of our recommendation to spain. the commission also stresses that the reforms should be initiated immediately after the council is renewed. what is important is to ensure that the council for the judiciary is not perceived as vulnerable to politicization. moreover, the rule of law report also highlights that, according to recent studies by the spanish supreme court, the lack of renewal of the council is already having an impact on the efficiency of justice. we acknowledge that the discussions are very complex, and the commission has taken this complexity into account when drafting its recommendation. we regret that the negotiations to renew the council were suspended again in october 2022, and we continue to call on all parties involved to take the necessary actions for the successful implementation of our recommendation. while associations of judges are involved in the proposal of potential candidates to the judicial council, the final word for the moment in the appointment of its judge-members lies with parliament, which still has a lot of discretion to decide. what is important is to ensure that the council for the judiciary is not perceived as vulnerable again to politicization. european standards, such as greco recommendations, provide that political authorities, such as the parliament or the executive, should not be involved at any stage in the selection process of judge-members of the judicial council. as regards the reform of the criminal code, the commission is aware, as i mentioned in my first remarks, of the reform of the provision on the crime of embezzlement in the spanish criminal code. as i said, we are currently analysing the new spanish provisions on embezzlement, including the lowering of penalty levels for such offences, in order to assess their compliance with eu law. it is very important to continue to protect the financial interests of the union by such analysis of the compliance with the eu law. the commission is also aware of the reform of the provisions on the crime of sedition in the spanish criminal code. however, as with most criminal offences, the crime of sedition falls exclusively within the competence of the member states, which means that member states remain free to adopt or amend legislation in this field as they deem appropriate, as long as they respect their international and constitutional obligations. and as i said, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, i would like to remind you that we will of course continue to monitor the situation of the rule of law in spain, as in all member states, in particular in the context of the preparation of the 2023 report. and in this report we shall have to assess the implementation of the recommendations of the report of last july and in particular, of course, the recommendation we made, stressing its urgency, i am thinking of the renewal of the high council of justice. i am grateful for the exchange and remain at your disposal, not only in the debate on spain, as i said, but also in the debate on the rule of law in each of the member states of the european union.
vice-president of the eib. – madam president, dear members of parliament, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to be here with you today. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, angelika winzig, for the excellent work, the good cooperation and the relevance of the report. it is always strange to talk about activities looking back, as the report analyses the year 2021. so much has happened since then, but the eib performed well, being instrumental in the eu response to multiple crises, without losing sight of our core missions. there is a common thread between past and current crises, which is investment. crises always put investment at risk, whether it is private or public money. this is the reason why institutions like the eib play a key role in providing stabilising effects and sending signals to the market. when you talk about financial performance, as rightly acknowledged in the report, the eib group is an effective instrument in support of eu policies. for the second year in a row, the eib focused on fighting the covid-19 crisis, while increasing its financing for green projects. the eib group worked with partners in europe and globally to deliver a record eur 95 billion in financing – a 23% increase from 2020. ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, almost half of the group’s financing – eur 45 billion – went to small and medium-sized enterprises hit hard by the pandemic. the european investment fund, as part of the eib group, has played an instrumental role in that respect. as the report mentions, our financial support in 2021 to small and medium-sized enterprises sustained 4.5 million jobs. now to say something about the fight against covid-19 and the crises. think of the pandemic, the war in ukraine or the urgent need to mitigate climate change: we have moved towards permanent crisis management. since the covid-19 pandemic began, the eib group has approved almost eur 72 billion in targeted support for the public health sector, delivery of vaccines and for businesses hit by the crisis. thank you for acknowledging this in the report. on ukraine, ladies and gentlemen, the bank acted swiftly in supporting the country with its immediate finance needs. the eib quickly reallocated and distributed over eur 1.7 billion to support the most urgent reconstruction needs, with the support and the guarantee from the european budget, of course. the eib’s engagement complements eu budget financing under the macro-financial assistance instrument and the new mfa+. ladies and gentlemen, the war also underlined the importance of a sound european security and defence policy. i am happy with last year’s adoption of the strategic european security initiative, sesi, which aims to mobilise investment in support of europe’s dual-use security and defence systems by backing europe’s technology industry and civilian security infrastructure. until 2027, we have the ambition to finance about eur 1 billion a year in dual-use projects, and i am glad, dear colleagues, to announce today that in the first year, 2022, we have by far exceeded this ambition and signed a total of eur 1.5 billion for projects that qualify under sesi, the strategic european security initiative. let me say something about the green transitions. crises do not distract us from our core responsibilities. the eib has a key role to play in supporting and managing transitions. together with the european commission, we have been looking at how to make a lasting contribution to cope with the eu’s energy crisis. currently, the eib group is stepping up its efforts in supporting repowereu. last october, our board endorsed an additional eur 30 billion in loans and equity financing over the next five years. we will increase our support to renewables, energy efficiency, grids and storage, electric-vehicle charging infrastructure and breakthrough technologies, such as low-carbon hydrogen. this approach is in line with our ambitions and achievements as the eu climate bank. in 2021, 51% of eib investments went to climate action and environmental sustainable projects. another important step in line with our climate bank roadmap is the adoption of our revised transport lending policy last year to ensure that the bank’s activities in the transport sector support eu policies. to underpin a resilient transition, more support is also needed in research and development – as already mentioned by the rapporteur – carried out by european companies, notably at the crucial intersection between digital and technology. that is why the eib provides financing to cutting-edge technology firms, with facilities ranging from standard senior debt to the very popular non-dilutive venture debt specifically for start-ups. it is our ability to innovate within the eu that will help us to strengthen our strategic autonomy. but resilience has to go hand-in-hand with inclusiveness. climate action and just transition are complimentary goals. cohesion – as mentioned also by the rapporteur – will therefore remain part of our dna. by 2025, the eib will aim to commit 45% of its total financing in the european union to support projects in transition and less developed regions. finally, transparency and accountability. i am very much aware that accountability and integrity, and our related policies and practices, are also important to you, ladies and gentlemen, as much as they are to us. i fully agree with you that we cannot become complacent in that respect, and we take your recommendations very seriously. at the bank we are committed to raising the bar. on transparency, i am happy to see that the report welcomes our revised policy, which lays down provisions for the proactive publication of information and documents, as well as possible disclosure. furthermore, we are constantly improving our policies and practices in various fields, notably related to the wellbeing of our staff, gender and diversity, anti-corruption safeguards, protection of whistleblowers, and so on. we also revised and adopted our environmental and social sustainability framework as well as our whistleblowing policy in 2021, which also grants protection to these persons. last but not least, outside the eu. finally, let me say some words about our operations outside the eu, which typically represent about 10% of our activities. it is increasingly important for the eu to be able to offer financial support in building partnerships with emerging and developing economies around the world and in promoting policy goals and initiatives of the eu. therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we created eib global, which officially started its operations in january 2022. eib global is a flexible and agile team europe partner that contributes to effective eu external action in response to crises, as well as long-term sustainable solutions. in the years ahead, we expect to deliver financing of around eur 10 billion annually outside the eu. i thank once again the rapporteur. i thank you for your attention and i am looking forward to listening to the reactions.
member of the commission. – madam president, before i start on the topic at hand, i want to make a brief statement on the tragic events in kyiv this morning. the death of denys monastyrskyy has shocked me deeply. he lost his life together with 17 other victims in a helicopter crash, including children. my thoughts are with each of these families. denys was the minister of the interior of ukraine and, more importantly, he was the husband of zhanna and a father of two children. he was only 42 years old. denys is a true ukrainian hero. over the last year, leading with bravery and stoicism, that bravery was clear when he frequently visited the frontline. it was clear when i met him in his office in kyiv and the air raid sirens started, and he didn’t flinch. ‘don’t worry, we are safe’, he said. i liked him very much. he was a warm person and a great leader, and it has been an honour to work closely together with him. his death will be a great loss for the ukrainian government, where he played a pivotal role. it will be a great loss for all of us that worked closely with him – and i talk also about the 27 ministers of the interior of the member states – and, of course, most importantly for his family. my promise is that we will continue to stand by ukraine as long as it takes. we will not let putin win. i will now turn to the topic in hand. i would like to welcome the report and thank the european parliament and in particular the rapporteur – also on behalf of vice-president dombrovskis, who cannot be here today. the european investment bank is a crucial partner for implementing eu policies inside and outside of the union. i welcome this opportunity today to discuss the main findings of the cont committee report on the bank’s activities. i look forward to parliament’s views and recommendations with regard to how the eib can better help the eu to achieve our global policy goals. while the economic effects of the covid-19 pandemic were fading away, russia’s unjustified and unprovoked invasion of ukraine and a resulting energy crisis have presented our societies with extraordinary challenges that require us to respond with decisive and coordinated eu action. the support of key partners, including the european investment bank, is important for providing and leveraging investments aligned with eu policy priorities, including green and digital transformations that leave no one behind and to boost energy efficiency. for example, through the repowereu plan, the eu has raised its renewables and energy efficiency targets and put significant resources into achieving them. the eib group answered our call with its repowereu package from own resources, which adds much needed firepower for an efficient response to the energy crisis. investeu, our flagship investment programme, is a powerful tool to achieve the eu’s policy priorities. i would like to say a few words on its successful deployment and the role played by the eib. implementation of the investeu programme is well on track. i’m happy to see that the eib and the european investment fund are moving forward and already generating operations under the investeu fund. investeu is already out on the financial market, supporting smes, investments in solar, wind energy, energy efficiency, renewable hydrogen and in the social and skills area. investeu also allows for innovative ways of supporting promising projects to enable the decarbonisation of the eu economy, such as the eu—catalyst partnership, which brings together the european commission, the eib and the breakthrough energy catalyst in a unique public—private partnership. with regard to the eib activities outside the eu, i would like to highlight our joint efforts to support ukraine last year. i appreciate that the eib mobilised urgent financial support for ukraine with unprecedented speed. it managed this by re—proposing an early disbursement of several loans backed by the eu budget guarantee. these disbursements, more than eur 1.7 billion in 2022, were achieved in close cooperation with the commission. this complemented the micro-financial assistance that the commission provided to ukraine in 2022, which totalled more than eur 7 billion, offering immediate financial assistance to ukraine on very favourable terms when its funding needs were acute. support from the eu, including from the eib, contributed to making sure that the most critical functions of the ukrainian state could continue. we also appreciate the eib pledging eur 3 million to finance projects, contributing to solidarity lanes, and encourage the eib to accelerate identification of such projects and ensure their timely implementation. in the longer run, i am confident that the bank will play an important role in financing the reconstruction of ukraine. to this end, we expect the eib to maintain strong partnerships with other international financial institutions and national promotional banks that are active in ukraine. externally, many other challenges lie ahead, including climate change, connectivity and the need to achieve an inclusive post-pandemic recovery. we also look forward to discussing with the eib the strategic orientation of the eib global branch. thank you very much. i am looking forward to listening to the interventions in the debate.
i would like to thank you very much, commissioner, and especially for your touching words on the death of denis monastyrsky, the children and all the other victims.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, dear eib i'm just saying this as a whole dear eib team! dear vice president, i'm very pleased to have you with us. and i'm very pleased that we can have this discussion again today. first of all, i would like to expressly join the commissioner in expressing my heartfelt condolences to ukraine, because this is a dramatic process and we see people suffering every day from bombing and in terrible circumstances. the european parliament has also expressed its deepest sympathy and condolences to ukraine. back to the eib: the eib did not have the easiest starting position in 2021 and had to deal with the impact of the pandemic, and the crises have not abated since. every day a new crisis, i would almost say, every day a new requirement and every day a new problem. this is of course not an easy situation for a bank like the eib structured as a multilateral structure. i would like to thank the eib for its strong partnership in the field of health, in particular for the eur 5.4 billion in loans signed for health projects in 2021. it is very important that we make a significant contribution to europe's place in terms of health, competitiveness, independence from third countries and the ability to take care of ourselves, and the eib has a special role to play in this. i also thank you for the special funding you have provided for medical infrastructure in the areas of research, vaccines, treatments. biontech/pfizer was one of the projects that was involved in that, that helped. and the eib was the first multilateral bank to invest in it. i would like to thank you for your foresight. they have also established a partnership with the eppo from the budgetary control point of view - i think that is very important. the committee on budgetary control does not see this as a criticism of the eib, but as an urgent request to the commission: we have a very large number of small and mediumsized enterprises in the field of space research, and there have been criticisms in the past in connection with calls for tenders that the commission has repeatedly cooperated only with large companies. the eib needs guarantees to be able to provide adequate financing to innovative smes. i urge the commission to ensure that this is done. because it's not just the big ones that are our salvation, but as you saw at biontech, you need the little ones, too.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, dear commissioner thank you for the moving words that you have expressed here today and i would like also to share our and your solidarity with the people of ukraine. thank you very much for what you are doing for our countries. i am from romania. so thank you once again. coming back to the report, mr vice-president, the report that we are discussing today clearly outlines that the european investment bank is of great importance for the european parliament as it is the biggest lending arm of the european union. the eib is the biggest creditor in the world and it plays a special importance in over—passing the tumultuous days we live in – here i am referring to the different crises that we are facing, meaning covid measures, the war in ukraine and the global energy crisis. i welcome the new eib cohesion report. you know that i was commissioner for cohesion policy, so cohesion is very important for me. the cohesion orientation 2021-2027 is very important, it’s an effort in terms of a continuation of all the aid within the member states to funds, projects and beneficiaries located in the eib cohesion priority regions identified as less—developed regions and transition regions. i also welcome the investeu programme, which will provide the european union with crucial long-term funding by leveraging substantial private and public funds in support of sustainable recovery. moreover, by implementing 75% of investeu, the eib group’s goal is to generate new investments mainly for sustainable infrastructure, research, innovation, digitalisation, smes, access to finance, social investments and skills. however, i suggest to continue to enhance transparency.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, 2021 has indeed been a difficult year, with multiple crises caused by the pandemic. the european investment bank has played an important role, supporting the supply of vaccines, the health infrastructure and, of course, the companies that have been badly affected. the crises, of course, have not ended, but on the contrary, have multiplied, and that is why we still need the eib to be at the forefront of supporting the european economy and, of course, the green and digital transition. and of course we also need the eib to continue and fulfil its traditional role as an investor in the infrastructure and cohesion of the union. for all this, i believe it is necessary for the european investment bank to further develop technical assistance in the regions that need it most, also to continue to prioritise investments in health infrastructure to reduce inequalities between countries, to support investments in energy transition and autonomy, both in the european union but also in candidate countries that face major problems, such as the republic of moldova, to invest in food security, agriculture and rural areas. there are some areas that are often overlooked and, of course, to ensure a level of transparency and ethics in all areas.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. mr vice president, the commissioner! he is a strong supporter of the ukrainian people. it's what unites us beyond our divisions. but commissioner, i would also like to ask you to show solidarity with the countries that are helping ukraine, for example poland, which has so far received very little financial aid from the european union, particularly when it comes to ukrainian refugees. we've admitted almost 9 million. we are expecting at least some of the help that the european union has offered to turkey, a country which is not a member of the european union. the year 2021 that we're talking about was a pandemic year. the eib signed new loan agreements for a record €95 billion, helping to protect almost 450 000 small and medium-sized enterprises. praise the bank for that. but i'd like to ask you here, what about the funding for nuclear power? because ebi helps wind and solar companies, but the real energy is nuclear. the current energy crisis in europe shows that nuclear energy is necessary. hence, i ask that you pay attention to this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the croatian government decided two weeks ago to abandon the croatian kuna and adopt the euro. in just a few days, prices in croatia have risen by 10 to 50 percent. the standard of living of the citizens is devastated. now i wonder what the european investment bank will do. will they continue to invest in vaccines that are not, in countries that are not even members of the european union or will they take action to reduce the loss of citizens of the republic of croatia due to the introduction of the euro? thank you very much, and i expect a straight answer.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 report on the fight against fraud is based on a worrying finding: the amount of irregularities exceeds eur 3 billion, compared to eur 1.5 billion in 2020. it therefore proposes a number of measures to try to remedy this situation. some of them are interesting, such as the suggestion to oblige the commission to produce an annual report on corruption. given the qatar gate, that's a welcome move. others, on the other hand, are trying to take advantage of the situation to speed up the federalisation of the union. i'm totally hostile to it. i am against the proposal to increase the powers of olaf and the european public prosecutor's office, which have just given proof of their blindness. against the stigmatisation of the five member states which have refused to join the european public prosecutor's office, which is their right. and against the extension of the conditionality mechanism to deprive of subsidies those states which did not cooperate enough with olaf and the european public prosecutor's office. it is not by turning the union into a europe of the whips that we will restore its credibility.
madam president, when we talk about protecting the financial interests of the european union, it should be emphasised that it is an organisation made up of people, and above all people. so the eu's financial interest must be that of its citizens. croatia is a member of the eu, and our country is falling apart, people are moving out, and their shops are selling expensive and inferior products, imported by foreign corporations. some people will say it's about free markets, but we've seen enough in the last few years to say that there's very, very little left of free markets, and the helm has been taken over by the top of the political spectrum and the owners of the largest corporations and investment funds in the world. where in such social and economic relationships do we find the interest of the inhabitants? he's not here. is it in the eu's financial interest that croatia pays more and more into the common budget and receives less and less? are you aware that even the incentives we get in croatia go into the hands of criminals, often politically connected? crony capitalism, some would say. you show up with fake farmland, fake livestock, and you get real taxpayer money. you get a job building some infrastructure, and you've never done it before, you have no references, but you have connections. what about europe's financial interests when the commission president, via text message, negotiated astronomical deals for a century, which turned out to be a complete failure? it seems that the greatest interest of the inhabitants would be to stop taking money and dividing it equally.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, fisheries are part of the identity of many european countries. in croatia, the country i come from, it's been around since ancient times. a thousand-year fishing tradition is an integral part of mediterranean life, and over time it has become part of a rich tourist offer. unfortunately, the many problems faced by fishermen, especially in small-scale and coastal fishing, have only been exacerbated by unstable geopolitical circumstances. the fact is that fishermen earn little and work in difficult and often precarious conditions, while the rising costs of doing business make fishing less attractive, especially to young people. the increase in the price of blue diesel is a particular problem for fishermen, which is directly reflected in their operating costs and the price of fish. the commission has also proposed that the aid be granted to the fishermen concerned, in order to ensure that they are not subject to any additional burden. in addition, as regards small-scale fishing, it should be noted that the average age of the fishing fleet is 32,5 years, which leads to an increase in labour costs and reduces competitiveness in the fisheries. in this context, it is crucial that the european commission provides for additional support to address those challenges. therefore, i support this report. i believe that as a strategic activity and part of our identity, we can preserve fishing for generations to come.
member of the commission. – mr president, dear members, this was a very interesting debate. it was a pleasure for me to listen to the points you made. i think it is also a very useful discussion. of course, i will take your comments and convey them to commissioner urpilainen as it’s her file. but nevertheless i want to comment on some of the things which were said here. i understood that many of you are worried about the ability of the project to deliver on the sdgs, and especially the eradication of poverty. but indeed, i think if the global gateway will build infrastructure, which is essential for the development of economies, if it will create jobs, then of course if we look, for example, at many projects which are aimed at building up sustainable agriculture and food chains like the one on agricultural value chains in africa, i think all these are proof of the fact that global gateway supports all the sdgs, and this is its main focus. many have raised the issue of having or not clear priorities. the global gateway was launched in 2021. of course, results take time, but with the flagships for 2023 i think you will find this will show significant progress. the commission proposal for flagship projects for 2023 will be sent to the council in the following days and then will arrive to you in the european parliament. this brings us to the political steer of projects, because once those projects sent to the council and parliament, then you will be able to contribute with your knowledge and to steer the commission proposal for flagships for 2023, and this is going to happen rather soon. i would like also to highlight and emphasise some of the points that were made. i need to underline that the need for stronger cooperation and collaboration between all relevant european actors is absolutely essential. since 2020, when the covid crisis first catalysed a steep change in the team europe approach, we have made good progress in bringing core european players together for greater synergy and impact, and the european parliament is an important part of that and we need to maintain – as was asked here today – a constructive dialogue, and we need to continue this positive trend in 2023. a business advisory group is being established as we speak. civil society dialogue is ongoing through the policy forum for development, we organise the european development days focused on global gateways and we intend to organise a similar event in 2023. second, we must continue to reach out, listen to and engage with the private sector as they are a key engine for global gateway’s ultimate success. it was asked here, and we discussed about leveraging the fund or else we won’t have enough for all the needs and the impact we intend to have. third, we need to continue to communicate the message tirelessly to our partner countries that global gateway offers high quality, sustainable investment that will support their own plans and objectives for recovery and sustainable growth following the crisis of recent years. so we look forward to working together with the european parliament on all these issues in order for global gateway to deliver positive change across the world. dear president, dear members, thank you once again for your interest and cooperation on this very important issue.
the debate is closed. i am sorry to say to those young people in the gallery who have just arrived that the sitting is now suspended. we will come back at noon for the votes. (the sitting was suspended at 11.36)
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
no objections were raised to the three-month extension of the mandate of the special committee on the covid-19 pandemic and recommendations for the future, the special committee on foreign influence on all democratic processes in the european union, including disinformation, and the committee of inquiry into the use of pegasus and similar surveillance and spying software, announced yesterday. these extensions are therefore deemed to be accepted. (the sitting was suspended at 12.21 p.m.)
the minutes of yesterday’s sitting and the texts adopted are available. are there any comments? i see that is not the case. the minutes are approved.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on investment practices of sustainable investment funds by jonás fernández and paul tang, on behalf of the s&d group (o-000052/2022 – b9-0007/23) (2023/2516(rsp)).
author. – madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues that have found a way of transport to home without the buses leaving this early this afternoon. it’s good that you’re here to address the issue, among others, of greenwashing. if you buy a television and get a microwave, you would be upset. i would be upset. but you have a whole range of options to take on a fraudulent salesman. but if i invest in green but i get brown, i have no leg to stand on. the research by the major european news outlets shows that europeans are being sold microwaves as televisions – on a large scale. some 50% of the greenest funds in europe actually invest in brown. and the commission, they are sitting on their hands – not literally, but... the investigation showed very clearly breaches of law. they showed green funds investing in coal companies or in chemical companies operating in china likely with forced labour. this is simply not green, and selling them as such runs counter to the sustainable finance disclosure regulations and these funds should be punished. but the investigation also shows uncertainty. funds are trying to do good, but facing fake legal standards and unclear social expectations. what about a fossil fuel company that has serious plans to turn around its business or a green bond that only partly finances green investments? being green is not necessarily black and white, so here the commission must step in. and the commission has always stepped in in previous years. i remember when the commission launched the sustainable finance action plan in 2018 they were entering uncharted territories. the commission went where no regulator went before. to end short—termism in the financial markets, that is a daunting task. but the commission took it on and they took it on with verve, creating a disclosure regime for asset managers, building a common taxonomy to define green, creating green benchmarks. and after these corporate disclosures, green bonds, due diligence, it’s on the table. and i commend the commission for this ambition. but that ambition was then, and i’m worried now, because it seems, despite all the talk about europeans’ resilience, the commission itself has surprisingly little of it. if you’re the first at something, it’s normal that things don’t go as planned, that there’ll be unintended consequences, growing pains and people will complain. yes, they will. but every complaint is an encouragement in this case to do something new, to take the next step. so take any feedback arising from the revelations of greenwashing not as a setback, but as an invitation, an encouragement to move forward. because by letting national supervisors fill the gap in a sustainable finance framework, barriers are being constructed in europe. and when it comes to setting standards for deep green article 9 funds, that means what’s green in france is now green in germany. what we see is a capital market with green fragmentation, and if parliament is taking all action, it can already, we are serious about greenwashing and we show it. we want esma to develop rules for misleading fund names to ensure green funds are actually green. we want transparency for the entire green bond market so that the green bonds regulation actually does what it set out to do: fight greenwashing. but in europe, we are a team. the parliament cannot score without the commission’s assist. so i want a stronger determination to fight greenwashing from berlaymont, and in disclosure and regulation, minimum standards for article 9 funds are essential, as the revelations we are discussing today show. and in the green bond market, it is important to regulate the worst performers to address greenwashing, not just to create a new gold standard for the best in class. and for the taxonomy regulation, it must be extended from climate to environment and social, and last but not least, the taxonomy must have a renewed focus on transition. because it’s one thing to be green; it’s another thing to become clean. and most of the activities in europe are still not green. most of the corporates are still not green. so we need to finance a transition to become green and we can use a taxonomy for that. and with all these measures, we can build a common european language for all parts of sustainability and meet the expectations we once set for ourselves to end short—termism and to give the financial sector a renewed licence to operate. in short, commission and dear colleagues, what we see here, we have different ways to fight greenwash. the tools to address greenwashing are already on the table. we know what we have to do. or what we could do. the question is only when. and this is the question to the commission: when will you step up to the plate and the practice of greenwashing that we see now that has been revealed by the major european news outlets?
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members. thank you, mr fernández, mr tang, for the question on the functioning of the sustainable finance disclosure regulation. several european media outlets have recently reported about investments in fossil fuel or aviation activities by funds that categorise themselves as sustainable under the sfdr, therefore triggering doubts on the appropriateness of that to fight greenwashing. the sfdr started to apply in march 2021. additional implementing measures have just come into effect on 1 january this year. the sfdr was intended purely as a disclosure regime. the commission considers that it has been successful in helping structure the way financial intermediaries communicate about the esg features of financial products they manufacture or sell. however, we are aware that the financial services industry is using it as a labelling scheme instead of as a framework for disclosures. on question one, on continued greenwashing in financial markets, one of the sfdr’s main objectives is to prevent greenwashing by promoting maximum transparency in financial markets. transparency means that it is incumbent on each financial intermediary to conduct its own assessment and disclose the underlying methodologies. if there are no minimum thresholds, financial intermediaries can disclose under whichever article they consider best fits their product. this is a critical aspect for supervisors. several market supervisors have listed sfdr as one of their top priorities for 2023. furthermore, we expect that the implementing measures that came into effect on 1 january will significantly increase the industry’s auto—correction and help facilitate supervision. these new implementing measures specify the exact content, methodology and presentation of the information to be disclosed by product manufacturers and distributors. as a result, it will become increasingly difficult for financial intermediaries to make unfunded green claims or to hide that they invest in potentially harmful activities. on question two, on the need for further regulatory action, we need to take stock of how the sfdr is working two years after it came into force. the implementing measures alone won’t fix all the issues arising from its unintended use by the market. that is why commissioner mcguinness announced at the last econ/envi joint committee in december to launch a comprehensive assessment of the implementation of the sfdr in 2023. at this stage, two main options could be explored. accepting the current use by the market of the sfdr as a labelling mechanism: this would require more precise definitions to ensure that the boundary scope of the light green article 8 and the dark green article 9 categories is clear. or alternatively, keeping the sfdr focused only on disclosure with uniform requirements for all sustainable financial products and adding a voluntary labelling regime in parallel to allow for the categorisation of sustainable financial products. there will be stakeholder consultation throughout this entire process and parliament will of course be consulted. on the third question, on the minimum criteria for articles 8 and 9, the introduction of minimum criteria for the so-called light green and dark green funds is one of the options that we would aim to assess. it should be noted, however, that setting up such minimum criteria involves opening and launching negotiations on the main text of the regulation. the current rules do not foresee such a mechanism. so, this being said, i want to thank you for this question and the possibility of this debate on behalf of my colleague, commissioner mcguinness, and i’m looking forward to the comments of other honourable members.
the european parliament is the epp group's head. uachtaráin, there is no idea of investing in the shraith prionsabal, rather than investing in the bhrabús. they have an idea that they will do the choincheap creation in their own history. in that respect, we must be aware of the need to be more cautious about the social conditions in the workplace. as a result, there has been a change in the project function of investment management. pharaoh, is it clear that the naked thief has gone to the other side? there is no difference between investment care in the male and investment care in the female. it's hard to imagine that the companies are doing a rough chirt and a rough chuí. it's often a question of whether or not you're going to believe it. this is based on the research results of an international media group and me in samhna imithe romhainn. it is estimated that more than 50% of the system is traded in some eu countries. it is still invested in the protection of women, and not in anti-marital activities. i'm a woman, and i'm a mother. the scheme is also covered by article 9 of the regulation on an in-durable airgead night. pharaoh, they are not and it is clear that they are polling and bearing the regulations. to achieve these goals, we need practical measures to ensure that sustainable investment is achieved. i have to be able to understand what is involved and what is in the glass and what is not in the glass. there can be no debriefing anymore. when investment funds claim to be sustainable, they must be sustainable and the trade-related information must be good. greenwashing effects are harmful to society and the environment. i'm proud of those who have made their efforts to do so and are trying to show me the environment they live in. to play a key role in investment funds, the commission is required to make laws that are fair and transparent. no one should be irrational and ethical. mar fhocal scoir, more praise of paul tang, an t-údar, as ucht an cheist is to be chur ós comhair in the parliament agus an choimisiúin.
on behalf of the renew club. dear chairman, dear commissioner, mutual funds put their money into interesting and profitable projects and asset classes to make a profit. of course, this is logical and legitimate, but it does not mean that these investments are always in line with the goal of society as a whole, or the wider community, which is sustainability and the achievement of common long-term goals. so we need to look at the bigger picture and encourage those investments, those projects, those activities that are our focus and that the public sector is also advocating, such as green policies, digitization, with, of course, the protection of social rights of citizens. we have discussed here on many occasions the negative aspects of this unfortunate war in ukraine, but apart from the fact that europe is more united than ever today, this war has another positive consequence which will certainly be reflected in the next five to seven years and which will be very visible, and that is the reindustrialisation of the european union. of course, in a sustainable and self-sustaining, self-sustaining way. we realized, in fact, that we had to turn to ourselves, to strengthen european production, agriculture, so that we were less and less dependent on different regimes, leaders or monopolists. and here, now and in the future, i see the important role of capital and funds. therefore, with these facts in mind, we need to work on regulatory measures to ensure that funds, other than the public sector, invest in sustainable projects that will restore strength and leadership to europe's sustainability-based, green and digital economy. unfortunately, profit often has a short-term logic. and yes, unfortunately, unsustainable business and investment often has a higher return than sustainable business and investment, but that's why we need to look at the effects of investing on the environment and on society as a whole. and not just today, but for the long haul. and all of this is even more pronounced for the region of central and eastern europe, where investment in sustainable projects that will contribute to the fight against climate change is still, unfortunately, extremely low. so, knowing that many economic activities in europe are still a major source of carbon emissions, i think we have to be aware that without major investment in the energy sector and a sustainable economy, europe will not achieve its green agenda goals, and that would be inexcusable. therefore, commissioner, i think it is high time that we clearly define and say that sustainability is above short-term profit. and that needs to be clearly regulated.
mr president, the situation at europe's borders is unfortunately beginning to resemble dramatically the great migration crisis of 2015. thousands and thousands of unknown people are apparently entering the territory of the european union illegally. it is extremely scandalous to hear, on the other side of the left, and here in the european parliament, passionate advocacy for the disregard of our common european rules. europe can't stand to see this any longer. europe must act. we need to agree as soon as possible on a new system of migration and asylum, a system that can respond to this crisis, a system that includes solidarity between states because for too long, the countries at the external borders have borne the brunt of the migration pressure, but also a system that also includes a firm stance against smugglers, who exploit our indecision and put the lives of thousands of people at risk. we must stop illegal entry and persist in protecting europe's borders.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, identifying jurisdictions that pose a threat in terms of money laundering is extremely relevant for our policy in that field. unfortunately, we know in the last years this exercise of listing has been highly politicised. that is the reason why my group suggested to have this debate in this plenary today, because when the council decided to postpone the deadline to adopt the delegated act, immediately alarms started to ring because we do not want to repeat what happened in 2019 when a delegated act was objected to because a certain member state was in it and, due to political pressure, the delegated act was then rejected. we do not want that to happen again. i think that the exercise that the commission did when they defined the jurisdictions is perfectly technical and clean. also, it mirrors what the fatf has already done at the international level, and thus we believe that this delegated act should be adopted as soon as possible. i am happy to hear that nobody in the council so far has been signalling the intention to objecting to it, and then we expect the council to adopt it as soon as possible. now i think that for the future we need to reflect how to better strengthen this exercise and for that – and we have a good opportunity now that we are in the middle of reforming our anti—money laundering legislation – we need to strengthen the process to make it more technical, less political. also, i think with the creation of the new agency for anti—money laundering we can give it a role in order to have this exercise done in a better way.
madam president, when we talk about risky third countries for laundering and concealing money, we must remember that first of all that money has to be stolen, that is to say, it has to be obtained illegally somewhere. we're talking about money that doesn't get stolen in jamaica or barbados. we're talking about money being stolen right here in europe. what do you do when you've been warning the authorities for years that hundreds of millions of our money is being shamelessly stolen, and the authorities and law enforcement agencies do nothing about it? we had the case of the so-called anti-entrepreneur tomislav debeljak, the ruinator of croatian shipbuilding, to whom the government paid hundreds of millions of kuna a year, and he used them to muck and cheat. and it was all through the account of a shell company in the marshall islands. and there was a plethora of other firms. despite constant warnings from all the auditors, including the state auditors, prime minister plenkovic persistently allowed money to be paid out in this way and business to be conducted in this way. the marshall islands at the time refused to cooperate with the european union, and they were blacklisted. the system must respond to crime, and the government of andrej plenkovic, which has been funneling money to debeljaku, enjoys a high reputation in these institutions. what does that say about us as an organization? it's time to stop tolerating these criminal practices on our own continent, and then there will be less stolen money that could be traced to some third country, in this case the marshall islands.
mr president, european union law protects geographical indications for agricultural and food products such as the well-known dalmatian prosciutto and slavonic kulen. however, european legislation does not recognise a legal instrument to protect non-food traditional products, and croatian cultural heritage is full of such products. in addition to the different national rules on the protection of non-food products, an additional problem is the fact that there is no cross-border system for the mutual recognition of national protection schemes in the internal market. the pasha lace, the shibens botun or the slavonic goldfinch are just some of the traditional jewels of our region whose manufacturing technique has been carefully preserved and passed down from generation to generation. for too long, traditional food products have been left unprotected and it is high time that european legislation recognises the value of our cultural heritage and protects the valuable work of the local population from counterfeiters from third countries. i therefore welcome the european commission's proposal on the protection of geographical indications for craft products and i call on the council and the european parliament to agree as soon as possible on a common position to ensure that no one benefits at the expense of traditional production.
thank you to the rapporteur and thank you to all those who spoke. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 14 february 2023. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes, for joint debate, the report by damian boeselager, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the proposal for a council directive on the modalities of the exercise of the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament for citizens of the union residing in a member state of which they are not nationals (recast) (com (2021) 0732 - c9-0021/2022- 2021/0372 (cns)) (a9-0297/2022) and the report by joachim stanisław brudziński, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council directive establishing the modalities of the exercise of the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in municipal elections for citizens of the union residing in a member state of which they are not nationals (recast) (com (2021) 0722 - c022/0339-0022 (a9-0235/cns))
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the commission strongly supports the parliament’s efforts on updating the rules on the electoral rights of mobile union citizens. the rapporteurs have made impressive progress on these files. the commission believes there is still a window of opportunity to have these new rules enacted before the next, 2024, european parliament elections. but this window will close soon. union—level measures are needed to enhance the participation of mobile eu citizens. this group of citizens has grown steadily in the last ten years, reaching 13.7 million citizens. yet union citizens still face obstacles in exercising their right to vote and stand as a candidate in other member states, such as low information levels and burdensome registration formalities. the commission has proposed changes to make it easier for mobile eu citizens to vote and stand in local and european elections without changing the overall balance of rights and competences involved in this area. our proposals draw upon extensive consultations and respond to input received in the framework of the european cooperation network on elections and the expert group on electoral matters. information is key for the effective exercise of electoral rights. these proposals will introduce increased responsibilities for member states to proactively inform mobile eu citizens about their electoral rights in clear and plain language, which is accessible also to persons with disabilities. voter and candidate registration procedures will be streamlined by introducing standardised templates for the formal declarations that mobile union citizens have to produce when registering. these declarations will include additional data allowing member states to accurately identify mobile union citizens and keep them apprised of their registration status and their rights and obligations. the commission’s proposals also ensure that mobile union citizens are granted access to the same means of voting and remedies available to nationals. in the case of european elections, member states will have to exchange a common data set to identify voters registered on electoral rolls of the member states of residence and of nationality. this will reinforce the data exchange mechanism and contribute to the prevention of double voting by mobile union citizens, an unfair activity that unfortunately happened in the past. we will also collect relevant statistical data on the electoral participation of mobile union citizens and a summary of the measures taken to support it. thank you for your attention.
rapporteur for the opinion, committee on constitutional affairs. madam president, we have over 13 million mobile citizens in the european union, a third of whom come from my own country, romania. all these people can also be ambassadors of the european union, because they are the ones who benefit most directly from the benefits of european citizenship. unfortunately, only a third of them are aware of their right to vote or stand as candidates in local or european elections. that has to change. we need to better inform mobile citizens about their rights, from the moment of registration of residence and before each election. we must remove all the administrative barriers and discrimination that still exist and we must lower the voting age to 16 to give young people a chance to participate in the democratic life of the union. only in this way can we improve european democracy and strengthen that common sense of belonging.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, the free movement of persons within the union is undoubtedly one of the greatest achievements of european citizenship. it also means that european citizens living in other member states can take part in european elections, which was obviously an imperative of european citizenship in itself, but also in municipal elections, because they are part of the life of the local community. it is therefore essential to ensure that all those who enjoy european citizenship can participate, either as candidates or as voters, in the european and municipal elections. the aim of this reform is precisely to increase and facilitate access to this right for citizens. it is essentially intended that today, in terms of registration and census, in terms of access to information in a language that is understandable to citizens who are candidates or voters, and also to citizens with disabilities, they can have much greater ease in exercising their right. the electoral system is not at issue here, whatever it may be, whatever the european electoral law or the electoral law of each member state for the municipalities, european citizens must have full access to passive and active electoral capacity.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, i would also like, like other colleagues, to stand here and talk about all the good points that we have agreed on, like requiring electoral information to be available in more languages, asking more countries to automatically enlist new residents as voters and removing old and useless derogations. but i also have to remind you of hundreds of thousands of europeans who are left behind. hundreds of thousands of stateless people in the baltics do not have the right to vote in national and european elections. the non-citizens in latvia do not have the right to vote, even in local elections, and i’m speaking about the people who were born and raised in that country. in this house, we pride ourselves on the democratic mandate we get from europeans. we say again and again how much we believe in democratic participation, yet our ambition with these voting rights paint a different picture. i hope that the next time we review these rules, we ensure that everyone permanently residing in europe, everywhere in europe, is entitled to vote. and i very much hope that we will not wait another 28 years for that.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, the report on the rights of eu citizens to participate in municipal elections leads to the strengthening of european democracy through the rights of eu citizens living outside their country of origin. it will facilitate their integration into democratic life in general by improving their capacity to engage in local democracy where they live, including through municipal elections. the report proposes to facilitate their direct participation in local democracy, in municipal elections, either as voters or as candidates, by being better informed and better encouraged to get involved. each host state will have to improve the information of the citizens concerned in their own language, including if it is a regional language, facilitate the implementation of their rights and allow their involvement in the political debates that are also theirs. all current restrictions will have to be lifted. this report is therefore a step forward for european democracy. it will give each citizen concerned a stronger sense of belonging to the union and a better involvement in local politics where they live. our group will vote in favour and ask the council to support it as well.
on behalf of the id group. madam commissioner, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you here in this gallery that european citizenship does not exist and will never exist. citizenship is tied to a nation. europe is not a nation and therefore european citizenship cannot and will never exist. it is a purely ideological construct: the european union is made up of the citizens of the different nations that make it up. instead of learning from the growing protests of the peoples of europe, who are rising up against the empire you have created, you are advancing with arrogance and contempt in your project of integration. your project will eventually collide with the reality of the peoples, because our thirst for freedom will eventually triumph. the peoples are not interchangeable, nor are they integrated into your empire by an artificial 'european citizenship'. empires are only a passing phase in the history of peoples and our european alliance of nations is the future.
dear chairman, my croatia is a country of spirit-selectors. voter rolls are unregistered, often voted by the dead or those who have moved away, and the electorate is much larger than the population. when i first ran, there were a dozen voters registered at my address, most of whom i never knew or had any connection to that address. in croatia, the voter doesn't sign anywhere, so there's no proof whether he ever voted or not. the electoral units are so rigged that finally the constitutional court a few days ago, after a lawsuit, also overturned the electoral units act. some representatives are elected by tens of thousands of votes, while others are backed by only a few hundred votes in the 12th district. this unconstitutional system has fed god and the people, and the scholarly and political public alike. the equality of voting rights is violated, meaning that everyone's vote is not equal and everyone does not influence the outcome of the election to the same extent. all of this and more is going to work for those who built this system to stay in power. all this mess and injustice europe recognized and gave us dubravka šučka, the commissioner for democracy. however, here today we have a proposal to introduce electronic and online voting, albeit only for local and european parliamentary elections for now. it's an incentive to organize the voter lists in croatia. it's an incentive that even those croats who were expelled abroad by the government can go out to vote and vote much easier, no matter how far away from the consulate they are. finally, a useful one from brussels!
the honorable chairman, the honorable colleagues, the honorable citizens, the leaders of the automotive industry, the heads of mazda and toyota are telling us that as politicians we should not interfere in the development and force electric cars because we will completely stop the development of this industry. what i'm saying is, if edison had managed by regulation or force or any other way to stop tesla from developing alternating energy, alternating current, we would still be in the 19th century today. we're forcing one cable and one kind of automotive industry today. this is unacceptable! stopping the development is impossible. the second thing that's going to happen, with the introduction of tens of millions of electric cars, electricity will rise to the sky. it will cost as much as gold and the poor citizens will no longer be able to afford it. we'll go back to the days of the fireplace and the candle. has anyone in this parliament calculated how much electricity is needed to power all the cars? - thank you. - thank you. it's not!
member of the commission. – i think it is clear what two countries have agreed. so we hope that everything that has been agreed will be delivered. this issue that you have mentioned is also part of the agreement.
mr commissioner, i reflect on two subjects from your portfolio: montenegro and the rule of law. as the former leader in accession progress, montenegro, alongside serbia, is the only country that did not progress on the eu accession path in the last year. we have witnessed almost two years of political instability and we still do not have a new government in place. nor is there any decision on the extraordinary elections. what does the commission plan to do to get the country back on track with progress on eu-related reforms? another source of political tensions there is the ‘open balkan’ initiative. what is the view of the commission regarding the initiative? finally, the rule of law should be a crucial precondition for progress in accession, and the main feature of the new methodology. is this provision formally confirmed in practice? is the rule of law really a key provision that sets the tone for overall progress of the accession countries?
member of the commission. – yes, the statement that you made in your question in the first part, i couldn’t agree more. unfortunately, montenegro has been missing over three years now, without much progress in the accession negotiations. montenegro is the one which had most chapters opened in the institutional part, and they have been a front runner in the accession negotiations. unfortunately, due to election results, internal divisions, political divisions, the country has not been able to get a clear government majority and the country has not been able to deliver on what is required as the next stage of moving forward in the accession negotiations. now we see that amendments are put forward in the parliament, which are going against the venice commission recommendations, and it seems that we are not getting any closer to delivering on the key priorities. because it is very clear that the next step for montenegro, and this answers also the second part of your question, to be able to move forward, the country will need to deliver on the so-called interim benchmarks related to the rule of law area, basically cluster number one. montenegro has opted into this new methodology, so therefore any progress is conditional on delivering these priorities. i do hope that, the latest news i got while coming here, was that it seems that there is political agreement now in the parliament for the nomination of the four new members of the constitutional court. and i do hope that this will also create the political possibility to convene the elections as early as this spring. and this election should bring a strong government with a strong majority in the parliament who can finally pick up the work and work for the country to make progress. but the country clearly needs elections and we need everybody in the country to work for that and stabilise also the political situation in the country.
i would like to remind the commissioner that i also asked about the ‘open balkan’ initiative, about your stance on it – what’s your take on the ‘open balkan’ initiative?
member of the commission. – the open balkan initiative is an initiative which is coming from the region, and this is why it is so precious. it is coming from the region and it is supposed to create european conditions within the region, among the region. this is why it was so important to go ahead with it. our original plan was the common regional market, and this is what we have proposed together with the economic and investment plan. well, unfortunately, we ran into difficulties. and with these difficulties, we had to let those who would like to go ahead and implement the four freedoms in the western balkans amongst themselves and support them – at least those who are willing – to go ahead and implement it. and we see already results coming in. and we have also seen that the open balkan had a positive impact on the common regional market, because those who have been having second thoughts, let me put it this way, have come back to the table when it comes to the common regional market. and now we have progress in the common regional market with three agreements, very important agreements, being implemented. and this should bring european standards and values even before accession, implemented among the members of the western balkans. so i think that the open balkans has a positive role to play and a positive contribution, but it has to be based on our rules, on our standards that would have to be implemented anyhow, if the region wants to become a member of this family.
member of the commission. – well, i think i can only confirm what you have stated in your question. yes, of course. once candidate status is provided, it comes with a higher level of responsibility on the side of the candidate country. but it also comes with a higher level of responsibility from us, meaning that if there is progress on their side, there has to be progress on our side. now, when it comes to bosnia-herzegovina, i think that the positive impact is already there. we have never seen that governments are formed in such a fast and based on wide political agreement, and we have not seen either that agreements also in the federation are in the making. we could be seeing a government in the federation after five long years coming forward quite fast. so i think that the offer that we have put on the table for bosnia herzegovina has been taken very seriously by the entire country, and that includes the republika srpska as well, because they have been also part of this formation of the government. now, of course, it doesn't mean that from here on conditions are going to be lighter, no, on the contrary. now that they are candidate status, they have candidate status. the criteria for making the next step is even clearer than ever. we have eight priorities plus one that needs delivering, and we have the 14 key priorities. which have to be met to move to the next stage, which is the starting of the accession negotiations. i think that it is clear in bosnia and herzegovina last time i went there before the council took the decision, it is very clear that the country has lost five years, at least five years, and it has no more five years to lose. the youth is leaving the country. the economic basis of the country is weak and it has not been improved. and this is why bosnia-herzegovina needs europe. and this is why i was very pleased to see the coalition agreement starts with the european perspective. but it also means that if they want europe, they have to come on our side and they have to choose our values and they have to choose our rules. and this is a constant message that i am always bringing to bosnia-herzegovina. and this is a message which is for everybody in the country. now, when it comes to messages towards bulgaria – i think i have quite a number of members of this house who are coming from bulgaria – so i'm speaking under their control, but they may have seen me more in their press visiting, bulgaria than any commissioner ever before. and that was because i have tried to convince them to come around and to agree. but these decisions are hard to make. and as you have heard from the comments, they are still very sensitive. so i think we need to work to bring the agreement into implementation that we have managed to strike. because that is the credibility of europe, not only towards the candidate country in question in north macedonia, but also in relation to the member state, which is a member of this organisation.
member of the commission. – well, i can only quote our statement that we have made on that day. siding with putin in these circumstances isolates the republika srpska and its leadership internationally. there is no place in the eu for honouring and rewarding politicians who order the destruction of a neighbouring country and the killing of its people. this must be very clear to everyone. that decision of the republika srpska leadership is regrettable and wrong. this is the statement that we have made and it is still valid today. now, when it comes to the funding, the funding has been suspended for another reason. the funding has been suspended because of the secessionist movements from the republika or the representatives of the republika srpska, leaving the common institutions of bosnia herzegovina. our condition for putting back any financial arrangements for bosnia herzegovina was that the representatives of the republika srpska should return to the institutions so that we have functioning institutions and this is the criteria still in force.
thank you very much. dear commissioner, thank you once again for your really good and compassionate behaviour when we were negotiating ipa iii. in my last legislature, i was really worried why all this money that was used for migration waves was taken away from bosnia and herzegovina, because bosnia and herzegovina, at that time, i got the answer, didn’t have the absorption capacity to use the money. bosnia and herzegovina got candidate status. thank you for that. but i recently had a meeting with the minister of foreign affairs of bosnia and herzegovina; he’s a good guy, who will side with european affairs, with european policies, and not with iran, like the last minister. so i want you to support the new government. i want you to help bosnia and herzegovina get this absorption capacity and not lag behind all the other countries in the western balkans. because now we have ukraine, we have georgia, we have moldova, but we do not have a bigger ipa. so until that time, bosnia and herzegovina will be like an orphan left alone and be a political tool in this parliament for the people who do not have a clue what people need in bosnia and herzegovina. they need the young people to use this money and to get the country away from the interference of third countries and into the european union.
member of the commission. – well, yes, candidate status is an offer and it’s an offer not for the administration or the establishment of the country. we have made it very clear. this is an offer for the people of bosnia and herzegovina. i have also met the new foreign minister. i must admit that i appreciated very much the new approach that he presented, which is that europe is priority number one for this government. and for that reason, i have also offered our support to accelerate the reforms in bosnia herzegovina. and it’s not an empty promise; it is a promise also to help them with technical expertise, by sending them people with knowledge who can advise them, and also to help them to get better access to funding. but it is not enough to have goodwill. we also need the government of bosnia herzegovina to deliver on key issues, key issues that would help us also to de-block funding. and this is why we are now at a very important juncture, and this is why we need the whole institutions of the country to work as one. this is why now is the moment for this new administration to use this opportunity and come forward with deliveries.
yes, could i just ask mr commissioner, are you aware of the knowledge of the constitutional framework of the people who are representing citizens here in this building? and that without cutting the funds – if we cut funds for one part of the country, bosnia herzegovina will not receive anything. so can you just let us know is there any pedagogy that the commission will try to use in the future?
member of the commission. – you are putting your finger on the most difficult topic, which is that, yes, one looks at what is happening on one side of the country, but it means that it will have an impact on the other part. if you look at the actual projects that we are talking about, the highways and the railways that have been constructed in herzegovina will not connect that part of the country with europe without the other part being built. so this is the big dilemma but, as i said, we have a new government in place and we need this new government to change the course of politics in bosnia and herzegovina. and i’m hopeful – judging from my first meetings with them – that they can do it and i’m hopeful that they also have the political will and backing of all three constitutive people in the country.
thank you, mr president. mr commissioner, i am very pleased to see you here today. i am convinced that these moments of exchange are essential to continue the path that is bringing our union and the balkan countries on the same track. there has been a lot of talk about the question of serbia's alignment with european foreign and security policy, particularly with regard to the sanctions against russia. this is certainly a matter of primary importance, but there are other rule of law issues which deserve to be explored. serbia has recently adopted constitutional reforms in the field of justice. i ask you, commissioner, what you think of these reforms. is this enough progress for the country? and then, with regard to press freedom and the very low representation of the opposition in the serbian media, how can the european union facilitate a balanced narrative, free from russian disinformation and propaganda, which is often anti-european?
member of the commission. – on the judicial reforms taking place in serbia, this has been an outstanding reform for quite a while, and it took quite heavy political investment to get it rolling, but we have it now. just to illustrate the magnitude of this reform, it took a national referendum to get it approved. and now it is there. it is not only there, but it was only very recently, i think, a couple of days ago that the parliament has passed now to the next stage, which is adopting the laws, implementing this reform, and it is going to be still a long way. and if serbia delivers on all the elements of it, it should be sufficient when it comes to the judiciary. in relation to the media freedom and the media balance, yes, serbia has still a long list to do and there for that reason we have managed to agree with them on a roadmap for all the reforms. and this roadmap is, i think, directly implemented and supervised by the prime minister herself. and of course it is very clear also in belgrade that this is part and parcel of the fundamentals cluster. so any progress in that cluster will be measured also in relation to the delivery on the media freedom. on media balance, well, we are also helping local independent media. we are providing funding for that. but i think that it should be this roadmap that should bring about the media balance on the serbian media landscape.
commissioner, the union's resolutions and declarations have repeatedly called for the accession of the balkan countries to the european union, including the territory of kosovo. in line with this wish, the european council granted bosnia and herzegovina the official status of candidate country for membership on 15 december 2022. this poses a twofold problem. on the one hand, as regards bosnia-herzegovina, one of its two constituent parts, the little-known bosnian serb republic is still categorically hostile to the principle of accession. what is the role of the serb republic of bosnia in the discussions between bosnia and the european union and in the accession process? do you intend to take the advice of its leaders? on the other hand, five eu member states refuse to officially recognise kosovo. do you agree that this is absolutely against any accession of this territory to the european union? what is the legal status of kosovo in the eyes of the european union? on what legal basis do you attribute it to him?
member of the commission. – well, i think that we all know what is the legal opinion about the status of kosovo. five of our member states have not recognised kosovo as a country. and this, of course, has an impact on our approach. kosovo, nevertheless, has applied for membership – last year – and this is on the table of the council. the swedish presidency, although not here and not present at the debate, is considering the options and the possible decisions it might take. on our side, we are ready to do the work that is normally done in these cases, which is delivering an opinion, but it is not the commission deciding on this, it is going to be for the council to decide on bosnia herzegovina. i think the country has applied for eu membership. so for me it is very clear that that implies the entire country. so there are not no bits and pieces of the country who would want to become an eu member state and parts which do not. and as i just quoted, the government program of the newest government, in which also representatives of the republika srpska are part of the government, it is clear that their first priority is eu accession, and this is why i think that we cannot call into question the european aspirations of bosnia herzegovina.
member of the commission. – it might require a bit more time to elaborate on all the implications. but i can for sure agree with you in the implied statement you made. yes, if we cannot include the western balkans in the european union, then the european union is going to be challenged. the european union is going to be geopolitically challenged. this region is surrounded by eu member states and this region has always been – you have also quoted cyril and methodius, but we can go even further back in history – has always been part and parcel of european history, european culture, european society and the european economy. and we have to build it back, and we have to stabilise and help to stabilise the western balkans itself. they long for this as well. of course, it takes two to tango, so they also have to deliver their part. but, as we discussed today, i think we now have a golden opportunity to accelerate the accession process for the western balkans, which will also help europe to create stability and security around itself long term.
member of the commission. – this was a dilemma i have inherited. you are right about this. this is a dilemma that this commission has inherited. and, if i want to paraphrase it, i wouldn't say that some of our member states wanted to prevent accession through the inflation of criteria. i think that when we received the mandate, also in this house, it was very clear that the credibility of the whole enlargement process needs strengthening – the credibility and the predictability. the credibility means for our member states that they also feel involved. they also feel in charge. and this is not just a mechanical, administrative exercise at the end of which they will have just the automatic ‘yes’ to say. on the contrary, they also want to be part of this process. this is why it was very important to put this new balance on the table, which means credibility for our member states and predictability for our candidate countries, meaning that one has to see the reforms are delivered and the other side has to see that if reforms are delivered, then decisions are made here in europe. in that, of course, it was also very important that these decisions are coming faster and coming to a commission which is pro-enlargement, inherited from another commission, which was not. so, this is why it takes a bit of time. but now, as i said, last year was a very important development and this year could be even a bigger one.
mr. chairman, thank you for your words today as we celebrate valentine's day, valentine's day, as we celebrate love and the 33rd birthday of my ids. commissioner, it has been almost ten years since croatia was the last country to join the european union. and when we look at that european union today, it really looks like one big american doughnut with a big hole in the middle. in those ten years, a lot of things happened, of course. there were different elections, different pro-european governments, the other ones in the european union. also, a lot of things have happened -- from a new methodology to, i would say, a slowing down of the whole process. but life is about being honest and fair, so i ask you to look at those ten years honestly and fairly. are you satisfied as commissioner for enlargement with the progress made in ten years? because it is my feeling, my impression that from a primarily geostrategic policy, one of the key policies of the european union - the enlargement policy, we are coming to a secondary important or tertiary, which is not good at all, the enlargement policy. what's your opinion? please do.
member of the commission. – you asked me about the last ten years, right? on the last ten years, no, i’m not happy. and this is what this commission wants to change, this is what this commission has been investing, investing, investing in from day number one. if i look at the agenda of the european council as of 2019, you see that this topic is back on the agenda of the leaders. it means to me that this is a priority. this is a priority again. and interestingly enough, the russian aggression against ukraine only increased the importance of the enlargement towards the western balkans. if you look at the summits, the latest one just a couple of days ago, it is there. if you look at december’s summit, it’s there. so this is now a priority for the european union. but it’s not enough to say it. it means that we have to translate this into action. and this is why it is very important that the european union not only focuses on taking all the institutional decisions that it can take because the criteria are met, so to bring further the accession process, but also that we accelerate the real integration of the region into the european union. this is why at the beginning of the mandate, we have put a substantial economic and investment plan on the table to not only accelerate this, but also to help the balkans transform itself much faster, pretty much to the european standards. this is why it was also very important in the economic and investment plan that we are addressing the key challenges and the key bottlenecks of the region. one of the biggest vulnerabilities of the region is, of course, energy and this is why in the economic investment plan, for us, it was a key priority to find alternative routes, alternative suppliers, and help them to get it in the western balkans. this is why from day number one, we’re working very, very hard so that at the end of the mandate of this commission, you will see that the western balkans is developing much faster than ever before.
mr. chairman, very short. so, i'm glad to hear about this, your plans, your ambitious plans for the western balkans. but i would like to hear specifically, since you and we have about a year and a half left in our mandates, what would you be happy to do in those year and a half, or what would you be able to boast about a year and a half from today, in terms of the progress of these countries towards the european union?
mr president, the region of south-east europe is under increasing intelligence, media and economic influence of foreign authoritarian regimes, which could destabilise the european union itself. the eu's strong presence through enlargement policy is therefore crucial for the stability of south-east europe. however, a particular problem for the stability of this area is the policy of serbia, which is persistently trying to sit on two chairs by maintaining military and economic cooperation with russia and refusing to impose sanctions on moscow. serbian hegemonic policies, unfortunately, also contribute to the destabilization of neighboring states. this is most clearly seen in montenegro where recently, contrary to the recommendations of the venice commission, the pro-serbian majority in the assembly amended the law on the president, thereby plunging this country into an unprecedented constitutional crisis. with this in mind, and in the context of the enlargement policy, what does the european union intend to do to prevent serbia's interference in montenegro's internal affairs, and in particular the spread of the hegemonic concept of the 'serbian world' in that country?
mr. president, while the entire european union is united in condemning the russian invasion of ukraine, serbia has steadfastly refused to align its foreign policy with the european one. so my question is what mechanisms does the european union have at its disposal to force serbia to align its policy towards russia with the european union's policy and is the union therefore prepared to eventually stop accession negotiations with serbia until serbia has fulfilled what is needed?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the mediterranean region, the cradle of western european civilization, is once again, with its associated land routes, under the most intense pressure of irregular, illegal migration. it is clear to even the most naive today that the dramatic figures show that existing european migration and asylum policies have failed. they didn't deliver a decent system. we therefore need a responsible common european migration policy in which it is absolutely clear, even before the european council's conclusions, that there is no alternative to protecting our external borders. member states, not smuggling gangs, should decide who has the right to enter european territory. we need a system that is supportive, that is humane to all those who are truly in need, but that is also firm against smugglers who endanger the lives of thousands of people, but also against those who try to abuse the system. we must not and cannot turn a blind eye to the exploitation of the system and to dramatic attempts at abuse. the intensity and complexity of the migration issue calls for europe to adapt urgently to the new reality. europe has not yet done so, but the conclusions of the european council are certainly a step in that direction.
madam president, commissioner, mrs lagarde, for many european citizens, the ecb is independent, it is in frankfurt and they talk about policy rates. but since mr putin's war in ukraine, his role has become much more concrete, particularly in his choice to raise these famous rates. monetary policy can do nothing against higher energy or wheat prices. so why give him a restrictive tour? this would be a good choice if the price increase was due to an increase in demand. but this is not the case in the euro area, where we suffer from shortage inflation and pay for our dependence on fossil fuels. higher interest rates will therefore not counteract the rise in prices and may, above all, be extremely costly for our economies. i have two questions: if fighting inflation means first investing heavily in sectors in crisis, reducing our dependencies and transforming the structure of supply and demand, by implementing tools to adapt to our needs, what action does the ecb intend to take in this direction in the coming year? and my second question: knowing - and i conclude - that it will be difficult to bring inflation down to 2%, unless we cause a severe recession and increase unemployment, does the ecb intend to take measures to combat this?
madam president, madam commissioner, whether the interest—rate hikes are helping to control inflation is open to discussion. what is certain is that the ecb is giving a huge subsidy to banks. as spanish banks reach historical profits, i think it is timely to remember the bailout of 2012. your vice-president, luis de guindos, was then the spanish economy minister. he promised that the bailout would be paid by the banks themselves. it never happened. fifty-eight billion were pumped into banks, and only 10% have been recovered up to date. what’s more, spain borrowed 43 billion from the european stability mechanism, and more than half are to be repaid. the burden falls entirely on the citizens. disposable income is down by 7.85 – the worst figure in the oecd. it does not matter whether rajoy or sánchez are in charge: in spain, the cronies always get their way with taxpayers’ money from the union. when a country has systemic deficiencies, it shows everywhere.
madam president, commissioner, president lagarde, the rise in interest rates is at best a necessary evil, but for the banking sector it is a time of fortune. with the higher interest rates, on their reserves, they are raking in profits. it’s about eur 92 billion this year alone. professor paul de grauwe concludes that this is an unnecessary subsidy of private banks from public money. there are ways to stop this – and i’m happy to hear that from you, president lagarde – but, until then, make sure that these profits don’t come for free. instead of sending the unnecessary subsidy to shareholders, the extra profits should go into green investments and to keeping extra capital to prepare for climate change risks. so, madam lagarde, use these profits to forge ahead in the greening of the financial sector, as the annual report suggests, ask for extra capital from polluting banks and stop accepting brown assets as collateral. because if we don’t act now, i know to who the banks will turn when the time gets hot and tough!
madam president, madam president lagarde, the increase in the european central bank's interest rate last year and this year is a fraud, a real scandal. this increase, translated into street language, can reach 300 euros more per month in mortgages for families who, like the galicians, have less and less resources. the ecb manufactures poverty by promoting policies that favour the interests of big business and are contrary to the social majorities. the ecb manufactures poor people, families who can barely pay their mortgage or who are left homeless or unemployed, or with precarious employment. he bails out banks and abandons people like me. have some social sensitivity to what people are suffering. the ecb is responsible for the policies that impoverish and for the austerity, the policies that increase public debt in the eu to save private banks, like the spanish banks, which won last year more than ever. against this injustice, we advocate a financial bailout funded by the banks to help those affected by the interest rate hike. stop manufacturing poor people, mrs lagarde! stop manufacturing poor!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs lagarde, it has been said many times this evening, indeed: the ecb's role is first and foremost to ensure monetary stability and to strengthen europe's strategic independence. the ecb's ideological greening policy today, in the sense understood by the european union, distracts it not only from its objectives but also from its role. on the other hand, our monetary stability and our strategic independence depend on our support for the nuclear industry, the cornerstone on which france has built its prosperity. it must be decarbonised, abundant and affordable, and it must be the foundation of our reindustrialisation, the condition for our independence and competitiveness. this is the spirit of the biden plan, launched to support american industry. the fact that brussels calls it unfair competition shows that it has no understanding of the political, economic and geopolitical challenges we face. we must move towards a relocation of our energy policy and economic patriotism. our energy sovereignty would then enable us to protect our fellow citizens, especially the most vulnerable, against the rising prices of food, electricity, gas, rent and the cost of living. because, in the face of the abuses of this financialized world, they are the ones who are punished, because they are the ones who live in the real economy and who pay the high price for the excesses of brussels.
president, president lagarde, inflation has risen to 5% in 2021. we warned again and again that everything was getting more expensive and that savings and pensions were evaporating. in order to keep the debt burden in southern europe affordable, the ecb kept interest rates negative for as long as possible and continued to buy up government debt. mrs lagarde, you did nothing to stop inflation. in fact, you added fuel to the fire and said that inflation was temporary. when inflation rose above 10% in 2022, the ecb began to raise interest rates. but this was too late and too slow. the nibud advises the dutch to keep fifteen thousand euros in savings. of that fifteen thousand euros, almost a fifth has evaporated since 2021. although inflation is currently falling, 8.5% is still too high. the path of interest rate increases should not be tempered but accelerated until the 2% inflation target is reached. the interest rates must go up and the debt of southern europe must go down.
madam president, madam president lagarde, the ecb recently announced its fifth consecutive rise in interest rates, with a further increase expected in march as part of the response to rising inflation, ignoring the root causes of european union options and other monetary and economic instruments and measures that could be considered. the mortgage market is not homogeneous, with variable rates prevailing in the countries of the so-called periphery of the euro area. the impacts of your policies are therefore unequal and you know it. your choices suffocate thousands of families who, in some cases, as in portugal, have seen benefits increase by 80%, while at the same time being confronted with rising prices of essential goods and services and sharp wage devaluation. what do you have to say about this asymmetrical impact on households, but also on companies and on the financing conditions of states, which will tend to aggravate inequalities, creating even more difficulties for these countries? we've seen this film before, madam president lagarde, in 2010 and 2012. you want to repeat those disastrous policies?
madam president, president lagarde, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, you may not be allowed to admit it, yet deflation has started. given that large part of the sky-high record inflation that was steeply driven that started arising after the end of the sanitary measures and eventually exacerbated by the war in ukraine; given that energy prices have come down significantly, we are really concerned about further raises of ecb interest rates to cut demand and consumption in order to lower inflation. it just doesn’t seem the right way to achieve it. we need to address the root causes of inflation, tailoring the solution to the issue, which is mainly energy-related. i want to remind to all of us that, in this particular situation, it is up to the co-legislators to act, to continue with our efforts to diversify our energy sources and reduce energy consumption. i am afraid that keeping rising interest rates would only have a harsher impact on entrepreneurs and households, who we must defend – and i reiterate, defend – not threaten.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the figures say it, and people feel it: life is no longer affordable for many people. inflation - you said it, president lagarde - has risen to 8.5% in january 2023. we have to do something about it. and the european central bank is doing the same: raising the key interest rate. the conventional wisdom is that when inflation is high, you have to raise interest rates to cool the overheated economy. but the economy wasn't too hot. the inflation crisis is the product of russia's war of aggression in ukraine, which has sent energy prices skyrocketing. speculation and unreasonable increases in profit margins add to the rest. so we have a supply shock. and here a simple increase in the key rate, as the european central bank does, will not suffice, and an aggressive increase in interest rates carries risks of recession and problems for people with loans. the commission has therefore decided to postpone any further steps towards raising interest rates. in order to effectively counter the inflation crisis, fiscal policy measures are needed. because as always in economics, if you say monetary policy, you have to say fiscal policy. we can't do without it.
president, madam lagarde, should the ecb take into account the possibility that the euro countries may want to leave the euro? a few months ago i asked you whether the ecb had a road map for the exit of highly indebted euro countries which could no longer afford the interest charges. you said that the ecb had no script for this. the situation has changed, and the rich north is also voting to leave the euro. in the netherlands, a former minister of economic and financial affairs recently stated that leaving the euro should no longer be a taboo for the netherlands. the dangers of inflation and unsustainable debt and the stability risks are too great. the extreme low-interest policy has led to inflated housing prices and stock markets, and an explosion of debt. the ecb keeps interest rates low not to support the economy but to reduce the interest burden of debt, especially for the southern countries. the citizens of all euro countries have the right to vote to leave the euro. i would therefore ask you to have a withdrawal scenario ready in addition to a course of action.
madam chair, in our debate today, mrs lagarde has come to us to ask for our support for her 2022 report. thomas jefferson was quoted here several times today as saying that the price of freedom is high and so on. there's another jefferson i'd like to call. i think it's more for the west. so if private banks are allowed to control the issuance of money, eventually the people who built the continent will appear on it as homeless. so much for secondary issues, and as for primary issues, how many new euros have been created in the last few years, mrs lagarde, compared to the time before the crisis? i asked commissioner gentiloni directly, he couldn't answer me. i found data that goes to about 30 percent, and dollar-data goes to 100 percent and up. more press than reports ever get published. at the same time, we have the brics, which is planning to create a new, regular currency. i ask you, then, what is the future of the euro and the dollar in, say, ten years? secondly, you mentioned croatia's entry into the eurozone. first you mentioned that, well, it shows that the eurozone is still attractive. second, you mentioned that it strengthens the bond. that's all your political arguments. where are the economic arguments? why did you barely touch them? because there really aren't any, are there? i'm not gonna support this report.
on behalf of the renew club. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to ensure that cycling in europe is given the same opportunities for financing and development as other forms of transport, it is first necessary to recognise the importance of this form of transport in europe. the commission also found that the union industry was not able to obtain sufficient evidence to substantiate its claim that the measures were in breach of the anti-dumping measures in force. it is important to understand all the benefits and advantages of cycling in large cities, and to know how much the tourist region and country is worth to a branch of tourism called cycling tourism. so i think, unfortunately, too little importance and funding is given to european cycling, especially when we are talking about such important and necessary infrastructure. because without infrastructure in cities and without cycling infrastructure in tourist regions, there is no development of cycling. that's clear, too. this is why the strategy we are talking about today must be translated immediately into concrete projects and activities, such as the strengthening of the cycling component of the revised ten-t network, which is currently being worked on, so that, in addition to rail and road infrastructure, cycling and bicycle infrastructure can also be promoted and financed. in this way, safe cycling routes would finally begin to be built, and existing great projects, such as parenzana in my istria, which connects croatia, slovenia and italy as countries, so with its route, would be further improved. and so the beneficiaries would be primarily our citizens, but also tourists through investing in their health. it's actually a great example of a win-win project.
the disruption in supply chains and the energy crisis caused by the russian aggression against ukraine have had a negative impact on the fertiliser market in the european union. the prices of nitrogen fertilisers have increased by as much as 149% in one year, making the purchase of fertilisers a serious financial burden for eu farmers. in addition, high fertiliser prices have a negative impact on food security, which requires a targeted coordinated response by the european union aimed at strengthening support mechanisms, which will make fertilisers more affordable for european farmers. of course, in the medium and long term, we also need to look for alternatives in organic fertilisers from recycled waste streams, which is in line with the principles of the circular economy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's commitments under the cfp and will continue to monitor the implementation of the cfp. i therefore welcome the european commission's communication on the availability and affordability of fertilisers, but at the same time i call for further engagement to mitigate the negative effects of the new geopolitical reality on european farmers. they are already paying too much for the wrong policies of the past. let us not forget, then, that food security is a matter of national security and that farmers have an indispensable role to play in this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. for over a year now, our farmers have been suffering from an explosion in farm costs, and these are only partially offset by higher product prices. the price of fertilisers is particularly volatile and important. and of course, high energy prices are partly to blame, but it would also be too easy to blame only energy prices; it is clear that there has been and continues to be market failure. fertilizer manufacturers in europe have enjoyed a golden year in 2022 with exceptionally high profits. the increasing concentration of producers in europe and the associated oligopoly in europe mean that farmers are once again the ones who are being left behind in this crisis. in this situation we must find solutions and learn from it. the farmers need short-term support and the commission must monitor the market situation and, if necessary, activate the crisis reserve. we must also suspend the import duties on fertilisers in the short term. but the commission also needs to monitor the market better and intervene when there is a market failure, and that is actually quite obvious in this case. and then we need long-term learning. we must reduce our dependence on mineral fertilisers. and this is in the interests of the farmers themselves. this requires crop rotations with more legumes, and the reformed cap allows us to promote this as part of a new ecosystem. but we must also note that the number of animals kept in europe is decreasing and with it the availability of organic fertilisers. the animals we still have are concentrated in a very few regions of the eu, while in other regions there are hardly any animals left. this creates zones with areas where there is far too much organic fertilizer - with all the associated negative consequences - and other zones where there is no organic fertilizer. and this also shows all those who are constantly criticizing animal husbandry in europe how important animal husbandry is for a sound fertilizer economy. we need a better distribution of animals in europe and therefore a better distribution of organic fertilisers. so, every crisis is also an opportunity. the opportunity of this crisis, in my view, is that we learn again how to get better fertiliser cycles in agriculture going.
madam president, commissioner, the war in ukraine and the health crisis have reminded us of a reality: food security is not a given. the resolution we are voting on today contains important ideas for building our strategic autonomy in the food sector. yes, we must maintain anti-dumping duties on imports. yes, the border carbon tax on fertilisers must be implemented as soon as possible if fertiliser production capacity is to be maintained. it is also crucial to use the common purchasing mechanism on fertilisers to build strategic alliances with reliable international partners. but taking advantage of the current situation to obtain derogations from the water framework directive is not acceptable. the objective must not be mistaken. i would like to remind you that there is no problem of food availability, either in europe or in the world. we are facing a problem of access to food for consumers facing unprecedented price increases. so, producing more with more fertilisers and pesticides is not the solution: on the contrary, the solution is through the regulation of agricultural markets, through food aid to the poorest and through public food storage, which has been and will remain the most effective weapon against the various forms of speculation.
madam president, unfortunately the situation has taught us that we must look for alternatives and other resources to support our farmers and to use fertilisers. it is therefore important to promote the use of more organic and ecological fertilisers and the use of nutrients from recycled waste. i think that the domestic producers in the european union should be supported and also be included among the strategic sectors. i think we have to encourage livestock farming because this natural fertilizer that they produce is very suitable and natural and we should allow its wider use. if we can allocate and reallocate the resources of the european union in the current crisis to other matters, i think we can also reallocate them to our farmers and growers. we must not destroy our soil, because healthy soil means healthy food, and healthy food means healthier people. industrial fertilizers are costly, and therefore these natural ones are much better, and actually, because of this shortage, we should really take the opportunity to be able to use them more.
madam president, a uachtaráin, first point, the terrible invasion by russia on ukraine has not only shown that we are too dependent on russia for our energy supply, but even more so on russia and belarus for fertilizers. this has to stop, so we need to import less and produce more. second point, because fertilizers have now doubled almost in price, we need an emergency financial package for farmers, the same as former commissioner phil hogan did when there was a milk crisis a few years ago. and thirdly, we need to reduce fertilizer use. and i think work being done by research bodies like teagasc under director frank o’mara in ireland are doing wonderful work in that regard. for instance, promoting protected urea instead of can, better use of organic fertilizers, and of course promoting alternative crops and scientific production methods which require less fertilizers. do those three things and will be a long way to pleasing our farmers and helping them.
a member of the commission. thank you very much, madam president! thank you all for a very inspiring debate. i thank mr linz, who has proposed this debate, and the committee on agriculture. the fact that more than 70 people took part in the debate shows how important this issue is. i am grateful to the european parliament for the importance it attaches to food security, to ensuring that our farmers have the right conditions for production. i think that in this difficult situation, there is never enough to thank the farmers who, hit by such a great crisis, such a huge price increase, are still providing us with food security throughout the european union. i respect that. literally a few reflections, because my time is very limited. fortunately, this trend of high prices has been curbed. even now, the trend is reversed. if you look at the prices before our announcement in october, the prices of nitrogen fertilisers, the ones that have increased the most, have been on average about 850 euros per tonne. in january of this year, prices fell to an average of about 550 euros. phosphorus also from about 950 to 750 euros. potassium to the least degree, there were minor fluctuations. you can see that these actions that the european commission has taken and that we have taken as the european union as a whole have improved the situation somewhat. i think that the actions on the energy market, with respect to gas prices - stabilizing those prices - that this has brought some positive results, although the situation is still very difficult for farmers and therefore farmers need to be helped. the crisis aid framework is open, and i have spoken about the countries that have benefited from this formula. other countries can benefit from it. it's always open. as for the emergency reserve, because it was also discussed here, i want to say that we are preparing - already advanced preparations are underway - to activate part of the emergency reserve for several countries neighbouring ukraine - for farmers who have been affected by this excessive import that has remained in these countries and has created market disruptions for these farmers. that's what the emergency fund will do. as far as its use in other aspects is concerned, there are no such requests from the member states so far. we discussed this at the january 30th council meeting. there was talk of a crisis reserve, but for farmers affected by excessive imports from ukraine. and very importantly, mr. dorfmann in one of his speeches at the end of the debate talked about the need for diversification in production. and that is a problem. expensive fertilisers an alternative is needed in the form of natural, organic fertilisers. we have many elements in the common agricultural policy. ecoschemas are a very good tool. we encourage you to propose changes to the strategic plans and increase these organic fertiliser production possibilities. so far, there is only one such proposal, from poland, which proposes some changes to the 'animal welfare' ecosystem in order to increase the production of organic fertilisers. and that's a very good direction. we must reflect on what has happened to european agriculture in the last decade. i was talking about how we lost three million farms in ten years, from 12 million to nine million. but what's worse, we've lost a lot of mixed farms. and today, of the number of animals in the herd, which is about 113 million herds, only 14 million are kept in mixed farms. and the problem is that farms that have livestock, they have fertilizer, they have manure, they don't have land to use it on. on the other hand, crop farms do not have their own manure. of course, they can swap, but it's best if they're all on the same farm. so there's a really big need here for support for those farms that are sustainable and that combine both types of production. we should be more supportive of these farms. there are tools in the cap, but they need to be used more. and now, one last thought. a lot of voices are talking about funding, about resources. we are facing a huge crisis, now mainly because of this terrible war that russia has started, which is unprovoked. we have the 2020 budget, because that's when the multiannual financial framework was set, the rules for the common agricultural policy in 2021 - all before this crisis. indeed, in the context of the review of the common agricultural policy and with the agricultural policy beyond 2027 in mind, we need to think very hard about strengthening both the budgetary and the common action at european level. the agricultural policy must be strengthened. i've already said that 0.4% of gdp for food security is definitely not enough. too often we refer farmers to national aid, and it is given, but it is not a good solution in the long run, because it creates inequalities, unequal competition. we need more instruments for crisis intervention, but at eu level. thank you again for an inspiring, much-needed debate. thank you, sir.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to put a point on the agenda concerning the resolution on the creation of an ethics body of the european union. as you know, ladies and gentlemen, we have a serious problem of lack of transparency in our institutions. the american newspaper new york times has decided to take the european commission to the court of justice of the european union for failing to communicate the contents of the european commission president's sms messages to the pfizer laboratory. this dysfunction, namely the failure to communicate these documents, has been confirmed by all our institutions, the ombudsman and the european court of auditors. so why am i intervening? i hope that this parliament, ladies and gentlemen, will live up to its prerogatives, including the control of the executive. i ask you to do everything possible to ensure that the commission gives access to all these documents. the european citizens are demanding accountability from us, and it is by ensuring transparency that we will regain their trust.
madam president, i refer to rule 163(3) of our rules of procedure. we are doing an urgent intervention here, an urgent procedure, but still it is important. that is why i regret that the request of the epp to have a debate has been rejected. it is a very important intervention. we will save lives with this decision and we need to continue this debate. for example, for children, there is more to be done. so that is why i encourage all of us, next time when we have such an important thing, we should also have a debate. but it’s good that we are united. i’m happy that we will support this with a broad majority.
madam president, if i can raise a matter of great importance, my voting terminal isn’t working. so if you would have a technician. sorry to interrupt.
madam president, in the course of the last 12 months, we have approved many resolutions: just to recall 21 resolutions concerning ukraine, and rightly so. in the resolution from 23 november 2022, we made a very clear reference concerning the isolation of the russian federation. so let me ask you for permission to make a reference to that resolution and to insert the text, i quote ‘calls on the eu and its member states to take further action to continue international isolation of the russian federation, including with regard to russia's membership of international organisations and bodies such as the united nations security council’.
the minutes and texts adopted of yesterday’s sitting have been distributed. are there any comments? i see no comments. (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the european initiative to promote civic engagement to protect and better support european volunteers (2023/2564 rsp)
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the commission agrees that voluntary commitment in europe should be promoted. it is an important part of building resilience. to strengthen our overall european resilience, on 8 february 2023, the european commission adopted the union disaster resilience goals set out in the commission recommendation and its accompanying communication. the five goals and flagship initiatives will contribute to a more resilient civil protection system in europe and beyond. we need to keep eu citizens at the heart of our resilience efforts – on the one hand, to protect their lives, on the other hand, to engage and prepare them for when disasters strike. we will continue supporting voluntary participation in civil protection and disaster management. in the period from 2022 to 2026, the union civil protection knowledge network will work with civil protection and disaster risk management actors, including first responders and civil society organisations. we are facing increasing frequency and complexity of natural and human—induced disasters in the context of climate change and global threats to health. this is why the commitment of citizens is of essential importance to the safety and well—being of europeans. the 2022 forest fire season broke many records across europe. it served as another warning that we need to step up fire prevention, improve preparedness and boost our response to wildfires. volunteer firefighters are an integral part of the emergency response. they are also a pillar of the emergency and civil protection services in many member states. their commitment and dedication are essential to the safety and well—being of europe’s citizens. across the european union, firefighting services are made up of a mixture of professional and volunteer firefighters. the exact composition differs from one member state to another. for example, around 80% of french firefighters are volunteers. in countries like germany or austria, this percentage is even higher. the organisation and functioning of firefighting services remain the competence of member states, according to their own specificities and needs. at the same time, cooperation between member states in disaster management, in particular to the union’s civil protection mechanism, is steadily increasing. we will continue to promote and facilitate this cooperation. i am very much looking forward to your views on this important matter.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for several years now volunteer firefighters have been living in uncertainty. the court of justice and its particularly broad interpretation of the working time directive could endanger volunteering in europe by equating training time with working time. the european justice system is thus undermining a system that is working. it is true that these 3.5 million volunteer firefighters are the backbone of civil protection in europe and in my country, france. the extreme weather events of last summer are proof that this commitment is a pillar of our society and that we must protect and encourage it. this mobilisation of volunteers benefits society as a whole, in general terms, because of the social link it provides in addition to safety. our societies are rich in these voluntary commitments. so, with my colleagues sylvie brunet and sylvie guillaume, and with many other colleagues in the european parliament, we are asking the european commission whether it intends to promote an initiative on citizen engagement in europe for the benefit of volunteer firefighters, but also for all european volunteers.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i would also like to congratulate the commission on being able to discuss this subject today. in recent years, we have seen a great need for civil society involvement in the aftermath of natural and man-made disasters. that is why i think we need to increase the number of volunteers in each member state, whether we are talking about volunteers in the field of firefighting or we are talking about volunteers in the field of health. the problem i see, however, commissioner, is that we should ... (the president interrupts the speaker) commissioner, i repeat, i am glad that we are discussing this and i am glad that the european commission has also thought about the importance of volunteering, the fact that in recent years we have had natural disasters, floods, droughts, earthquakes or man-made disasters. it is clear that we need to increase volunteering in the european union, in all member states, whether we are talking about volunteering in the health sector or in the field of firefighting. but, commissioner, i think we need to make some common rules, to train these volunteers according to the same rules, because, you see now, the case with the turks, volunteers went, specialised teams went, but also volunteers from several member states. and if every state has different rules on volunteering, i think we can't have the results that we expect. and then i think we need to motivate, to find the levers to motivate the civilian population, the youth to do this volunteer work in one field or another. obviously, let's train them, because yes, i think in other areas, not just the ones you've mentioned, we'd need to involve as volunteers. in my country there is a law for volunteers, and i think we could take examples of good practice from certain states where, in fact, through legislation, we motivate these volunteers: they are relieved of their old age for this voluntary work and, of course, they accumulate for the retirement period the points necessary to have a proper pension. in a nutshell, i'd like to reiterate, from my point of view, that volunteering is now somewhat different in the 27 states. i think we need common rules, very good training and especially motivational factors for the civilian population to get involved in volunteer activities. because we can't predict all natural disasters, we can't predict, you know, man-made disasters. we need urgent intervention, and then, with the help of volunteers, together with specialized teams, we can save lives, we can shorten the time to repair the damage created by these disasters.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, volunteering saves lives. it accompanies and protects millions of europeans on a daily basis. i would like to pay tribute to the dedication of these women and men who look after our society, strengthen the social bond and solidarity. i am thinking in particular of the fire brigades, civil protection and, of course, all the volunteers in europe. these commitments are necessary for first aid but also - and this is becoming increasingly important today - for tackling climate change. however, interpretations of the directive on the organisation of working time undermine the status of these volunteers, and particularly of firefighters. i welcome the commitment of several of my colleagues - in particular sylvie brunet - who are working to improve the recognition of their status in parliament. in order to improve prevention across europe, we need to promote exchanges between volunteers across borders, as well as their training in the framework of the european civil protection mechanism and the european solidarity corps, for example. together, let us pay tribute to these volunteers for their unwavering dedication to our safety.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, colleagues, honourable commissioner, at last a meaningful and useful initiative. unfortunately, there aren't many people in the room right now. but yes, commissioner, the initiative is useful and commendable and should be supported. we live in a time when our continent is increasingly experiencing disasters of all kinds, earthquakes, fires, floods, and we need to support civic initiative and volunteerism. and this should and can be done by introducing some form of common standards for training volunteers, for disclosing volunteers, for uniform equipment for volunteers, that would be useful and that would lead to saving lives and property and to minimizing the damage from natural disasters. i have personally participated several times as a citizen volunteer in the extinguishing of forest fires in different large bulgarian mountains, i would be happy to discuss this with you, but what needs to be done is to continue to offer a common standard in training and qualification, in collecting equipment for volunteers and volunteer formations. and this could help, i say again, and benefit all european citizens and the economy and save lives. so keep going in that direction. i congratulate you!
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i want to emphasize today the importance of volunteer firefighters. in my home country of istria, croatia, the firefighting system is built on the full cooperation of professional and volunteer firefighters. on their synergy. and it works perfectly, great. and we should all be sympathetic to them, but also find ways to further reward and help all the volunteers who selflessly give their energy, their time, and often have, of course, material costs in this work. without them, the state of public safety would certainly not be as good as it is today. not to say it would be absolutely compromised. therefore, my dear commissioner, in addition to thanking all these wonderful brave men, i also expect a step forward in terms of regulating their status by law. i expect our legislation to encourage more general volunteering and such great examples as volunteer firefighters and to thank them in that way too, although of course we can never do enough.
mr president, i follow the events in ukraine very closely, and i followed what mr zaluzny said in an interview with the economist, what the polish president said the other day. if we look at the situation of the ukrainian army from a purely military, strategic point of view, it's a very, very bad situation. so if the west is going to win, it has to send serious military aid. however, he does not send it. so the outlook is very bad. it brings tears to my eyes to see how many people are dying in the ukrainian war, especially on the ukrainian side. so far, there's at least 150,000 dead, and that's just the dead. there's such a difference in firepower that this is no longer a war, but a massacre, and i don't think sending more missiles or planes will help anything, that the only solution is to stop this nonsense, to declare a ceasefire and negotiate peace, to sit down at the table. i don't want the ukrainian people to disappear, i don't want 500,000 people to die, god forbid, i don't want that country to be torn apart. and that's why i want him to come to the negotiating table as soon as possible.
mr. chairman, a gap has long been created between the real economy and the financial economy. the european central bank, whose main job is to maintain price stability, has set itself the goal of keeping inflation below two percent a year. the average inflation rate in europe last year was about ten percent. some countries, like lithuania, had 20 percent. of course, it's just what's on paper. i assure you that the real costs that citizens feel are many times higher. the people are suffering and living more and more hard because of the high inflation, the standard of living is threatened, the savings they have in the banks are falling, the prices of real estate are rising, the prices of rents are rising. it's very difficult to find a place to live. the ecb has therefore completely failed in its job, completely let down the citizens in fulfilling its objectives and tasks. and the whole system of european central banks, not just that institution in frankfurt. there is no way i'm voting for such a report, in other words, i voted no.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i would like to thank the president-in-office. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for a good report. i would just like to say that the greens will again vote in favour of these three amendments from the ecr. we actually think they're good, and we don't really understand why people don't vote for them. but first of all, i would like to thank emily o'reilly, and i do not want to repeat all the praise that comes from those comments. there is no time for that, because i have so little time, but i would just like to say: we have a real ombudsman here in the eu, and we must make sure that we continue to have one. because i have the feeling, from the times i have been involved in elections - and this is a lot - that it is difficult to understand fully what an ombudsman is. and let me say here that there is one thing i would like to highlight from emily o'reilly's work. and it's not from this year, it's from 2018. and that is when we got the report, the special report, on bringing transparency to the work of the council so that the citizens and the press can follow what their own governments are doing. and only when we do get it will we be able to live up to the promise of the treaty to citizens that they can participate in democracy. if they do not know what their own governments are doing, how can they trust that it is being done properly? and i would like to thank you again for that report, but i would also like to say that we have a lot to say here, and i would very much encourage our governments to finally start taking this seriously.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. mr commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the european institutions are in a serious crisis. to the lack of democracy and the lack of transparency of many decisions taken in brussels, we can add other serious problems that are destroying credibility, the credibility of the european union, such as the corruption that has shaken the european parliament in recent months, and the unclear procedures for conflicts of interest in the european commission, which we have been discussing today. the pandemic, which has been the main challenge faced by member states and the european union in recent years, has also exposed a number of weaknesses and omissions that need to be fully explained. the process of negotiating, purchasing and supplying vaccines still raises questions about the limits of public access to information and the efficiency of public spending. we're counting on your activism and persistence in finding answers. i would also like to thank mrs anne-sophie pelletier for her report, which we shall support.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! transparency is one of the key themes of the european ombudsman's inquiries. as vice-chair of the committee on petitions and coordinator of our ecr group in the committee on budgetary control, i would like to thank the ombudsman very much for her work in this area. transparency is the foundation of the trust of the citizens of the member states in the institutions of the union, and that is why we cannot understand how the european commission, its president, is refusing access to the text messages exchanged by mrs von der leyen with the head of one of the major pharmaceutical companies, who were also given a grant by the european union to find a vaccine. we share the ombudsman's critical opinion on this matter. these types of actions do not serve to build trust in the european commission, in the institutions of the european union. we must say this very loudly and demand that the president of the european commission finally stops making these strange translations which are completely irrational.
madam president, madame o’reilly, the ombudsman is the last hope for many people whose rights are violated by european states and institutions. litigation in european courts is not easy and is very expensive. many vulnerable people and minority groups do not find a way to open the door to european courts. member states that violate the rights of their minorities find in the commission and in the parliament very powerful allies who cover their backs. this is why the role of the ombudsman should be even more important. the case of spain, for example, is flagrant. it is by far the country from which you receive most complaints – 405 in total. the second country, germany, with 222, but with almost twice as many inhabitants. you have only accepted 25 out of the more than 400 complaints. there is a major lack of proper legal defence in the institution of the ombudsman. shuffle it.
madam chair, we are witnessing the burning of billions of doses of so-called covid vaccines around the world that no one wants. billions of taxpayer dollars are being burned without anyone asking. no one asked us anything, the representatives elected by the citizens to protect their health and their property. it would be better if we all burned all the vaccine and saved many lives and health of citizens. the contracting of 4.6 billion doses for 360,000 adult citizens of the european union was done in complete obscurity and secrecy, full of hidden text messages, indicating what is surely the biggest corruption scandal in the history of the european union. it's a $71 billion contract that was made in the dark between von der leyen and bourla, the ceo of pfizer, and pfizer, as we all know, is already under indictment in the united states for corruption.
mr president, many europeans cross national borders for work, study, family visits or tourism, often requiring healthcare. the purpose of the european health data area is to enable european citizens to access their health records directly and free of charge via mobile phone or computer and to share their health data with doctors anywhere in the european union. this will give citizens access to faster and better healthcare. it will also provide access to vast amounts of data for research and innovation, enabling the development of new medicines that will save lives. as rapporteur for the envi committee, i propose amendments that will further empower patients and healthcare professionals over the commission's proposal. in addition, i am asking for more eu funding to build the necessary infrastructure and equip health systems to implement the european health data area. this is a truly revolutionary proposal and we have a responsible job to do to ensure that the european health data area is easily applicable in practice and that the system works for the benefit of our citizens.
dear chairman, thank you very much. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, together with the baltic neighbours of lithuania, but also ukraine and croatia, my country has, throughout its history, fought against repression, fought for freedom, preserving its identity, preserving its language and preserving its culture. all this while our freedom was taken for granted and while many were challenging it above all, the stronger and bigger neighbors. both croatia and ukraine suffered aggression, croatia defended itself, liberated itself, and today knows very well what ukraine is going through. years of prepared aggression, powerful propaganda strikes, but also orchestrating and supporting internal rebellion. this is what ukraine lives today, this is what croatia survived and basically all this was prepared, perhaps in different forms, for the baltic states as well. the baltic states have been hit by disinformation as well as by attacks on their digital infrastructure over the past decade. ukraine is also the country most affected by attacks on civilian infrastructure today. croatia, although far from any military threat, is still exposed to various cultural pressures. although we are different in many ways and at different points in history, we do have one thing in common. we know who we are, we know our values, and we know where we belong. and that's why it's so important that every corner of europe, no matter how far away we may sometimes seem to be from any war or digital battlefield, that it's our freedom, our security and our future that is being decided in ukraine today.
in writing. the debate on the minimum income is more important today than ever, because in europe we have huge inflation and rising food prices. we also have an energy crisis, and our companies are going bankrupt. all of this combined means that people can afford less and less for their money. real wages in slovakia have fallen the most in 20 years, which no one notices. support for the most vulnerable groups must therefore be ensured so that social benefits and contributions, but above all wages, are sufficient for people to live in dignity. according to eurostat, in 2021, more than 95 million people in the eu were at risk of poverty and social exclusion, representing up to 21% of our population. the pandemic has exposed gaps in social protection systems, and the war in ukraine, coupled with inflation rising faster than income, has made the situation even worse. while member states have minimum income systems, they operate differently and are not always adequate. they are often below the national poverty line and do not motivate people to return to the labour market. it is therefore necessary to address this issue at european level and to set at least minimum common standards so that no one in the eu has an income below the national poverty or social exclusion threshold.
the minutes of yesterday's sitting and the texts adopted are available. i see no objection to that. the minutes are approved.
the next item is the question time with questions to the commission pursuant to rule 137 of the rules of procedure. i welcome commissioner simson to this question time. the theme of this question period is: 'how can the security of energy supply in the eu be ensured in 2023?' the question time will last about 90 minutes. the speaking time is: one minute for a question, two minutes for the answer, 30 seconds for a supplementary question and another two minutes for the answer. i would point out that a possible supplementary question is admissible only if it is closely related to the main question and does not contain a new question. if you have a question, i would ask you to register your request now by using the spontaneous voice mail function of your voting machine after you have inserted your voting card. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. so i ask you again to put your request now, and we will begin with the first question.
commissioner simson, my question is concerning the issue of production of green hydrogen in the framework of how to ensure energy security in the period of 2023. i would like to focus on the issue of the delegated acts that the commission has already tabled. according to my opinion, and i think that we can share this opinion in this house, the industry needs clarity, needs stability and needs predictability. in this regard, i would like to ask you if the commission is ready to give some kind of clarification when it comes to the use of hydrogen, the definition of green hydrogen for industrial reasons, for production reasons, for chemical reasons and at the same time for fuel. and secondly, if you are ready to give clarification when it comes to the term of ‘additionality’, which is provided in the delegated acts.
member of the commission. – thank you, honourable member, and thank you for allowing me to address this still very important question: how we will be better prepared for next winter in the current volatile environment of energy prices. as you know, clean hydrogen is one of our workstreams that allows us to replace natural gas in the sectors where electrification is not possible or is just too costly. and the european commission has been debating the precise wording of the hydrogen delegated act for two years. we really did listen to all the options and reached out to all the stakeholders. we knew that we could not make everyone happy but there is no industry segment that fundamentally opposes our regulatory framework. and after the commission published the delegated act, there have been some very promising developments. for example, thyssenkrupp announced a 2 billion investment in clean steel, which will require one driver tower of hydrogen by 2030. and i think that this is a clear testimony that the delegated act works and gives certainty and predictability for the sector. and we also see support from hydrogen consumers, the hydrogen infrastructure developers. and also we will address the remaining challenges after two days when, accompanied with our net-zero industry act, there will also be a dedicated part on a hydrogen bank. we do have already project pipelines in place year by year. and last year alone, the total volume of electrolyser projects before 2030 grew by 17%. and this shows that the industry is increasingly confident about the chances for the european market, and indeed these projects are all across europe. and from an international perspective, there is great interest towards our regulatory framework. we aim to create a global certification scheme that other major market players will also acknowledge, and that gives also a possibility to scale up the hydrogen market.
mr president, coming to scaling up the market, i would like to go to the hydrogen valleys. and of course, you are familiar with the joint undertaking. we have a very few number of hydrogen valleys in the eu ground – two or three. and i would like to ask you if the commission is preparing some action in this regard, particularly in terms of raising awareness at the regional level.
member of the commission. – indeed, we have set up an eu-level framework that allows regional developers to share the best practices. but on top of that, we are addressing the remaining bottlenecks, the infrastructure question and, of course, access to affordable, renewable electricity. just an hour ago, the commission adopted an electricity-market design that will promote renewables, that will give clear incentives to accelerate renewables by using ppas, and that should also allow hydrogen projects to scale up in speed because, indeed, by 2030 we will need 10 million tons of green hydrogen produced domestically here in eu.
mr president, commissioner, it is very clear to me and my political group that if we want to have energy security in the european union, we must look at how we manage to reduce, to eliminate this excessive volatility of the electricity and gas markets in the european union. it's clear that we need to increase renewable energy capacity, energy efficiency, and it's a question for me how do we, in trying to increase the amount of renewable energy very, very, very much, not create another dependence on the raw energy needed to produce, to contribute to the production of solar panels and i'm talking specifically about batteries. we have critical materials, and how do we prevent this from becoming a new addiction, and what is the european commission's strategy in this regard?
member of the commission. – thank you for this question. we are at this stage in the situation where prices are not as high as they were last year. last year it was just a matter of survival. but despite the decrease of electricity and, of course, gas prices, they remain higher than in regions where partially domestic consumption is produced using gas and oil produced in these regions, for example, in the united states. and that means that our only long lasting and sustainable way to deliver affordable and relatively low prices for our consumers is to accelerate renewables. we don’t want to create another dependency, and i know that on the renewables side, there are several bottlenecks that that make it difficult to accelerate. the first one was permitting and to address that, our renewable energy directive and some article 122 temporary proposals. then there is a problem of how to connect these renewable installations into the grid. we have to address the grid developments and we will do so. and on top of that, from where are the engines for turbines and solar panels coming? that question we will address after tomorrow with our net-zero industry act, we have to bring some of the production back to europe. we cannot address this necessarily in the sector, all the possible sectors, but we will address the sectors where europe still keeps the global leadership or where we might create new vulnerabilities. and solar industry for sure is such a sector where right now majority of the panels are coming from the only single supplier. but saying that, last year was a very good year for solar. it was 41gw of new installations - a record year. and we do expect that this year will be another record year. and so it will continue because the solar sector has already announced that they do expect 53gw this year of new installations.
mr president, commissioner, our objective is certainly to have predictability in electricity and gas prices, because these bills, which have fluctuated very widely on the one hand and at very high levels on the other, have also affected people and industry. my question is: how do you get the utilities and the distributors to deal with medium and long-term contracts instead of dealing with day-ahead prices and enter into an area that is considered by a lot of people to be a zone of speculation and that has led to these huge prices for electricity bills?
member of the commission. – mr president, one of the challenges of last year for consumers was that despite the fact that wind and solar in 2022 provided more electricity to our grids than coal, affordable pricing was not felt by retail consumers. we aim to solve this issue by promoting long-term contracts that will give investment incentives for project developers, but also allow, not only industry, but also small and medium companies and retail consumers to opt for predictable pricing schemes. these kind of power purchase agreements were existing already under current regulation. now we have mapped all the shortcomings that have not made these schemes as popular as we think they are necessary, because also investors will find ways to finance their projects better if they know that for five to ten years they do have agreed pricing on the table and that allows them to also provide predictable pricing for the final consumers.
mr president, when it comes to energy, i believe that in the past few people have thought about it as seriously as we do today. there was energy, the price was ok, and we didn't have a lot of burden, neither the citizens nor the economy with energy. i'd say we've relaxed a little too much. it's clear now, but since february 24th and this unfortunate war in ukraine, we've all suddenly become aware of the importance of energy. and of course, we all started thinking about alternative sources, about solar, about energy renovation of buildings and so on. but things don't go everywhere in all countries at the same speed. there are, of course, the fit for 55 documents, the green deal and so on, but again, some countries are lagging behind. my croatia isn't going that way so fast. so my question, commissioner, is whether you intend to use this summer for additional checks, for talks, for, i would say, monitoring in the member states, how the implementation of all the commitments made to increase energy from alternative sources is going as soon as possible, as soon as possible.
member of the commission. – yes, i am planning to do that because exactly this year, in 2023, member states have to upgrade their national energy and climate plans, and the previous ones were not aligned to our higher climate targets. i hope that very soon we will be able to conclude the trilogues on the renewables directive. and we did so last just last friday on the energy efficiency directive. that means that member states also have to upgrade their plans by promoting renewables, but also taking measures that allow them to save energy, because at this very moment we do know that the only sustainable solution to replace the remaining russian gas in our energy mix is to promote savings and also to promote renewables. so there is not enough natural gas and new natural gas developments coming to the market this year to replace gas from russia with trusted partners production. so this is an ongoing process. right now, all 27 member states are upgrading their national energy and climate plans. already last year they were very successful in installing new renewable installations and connect them to the grid and altogether we did see this installed new capacity in 2022: 41 gw of solar and, and 15 gw of wind respectively. this allowed us to save approximately 11 billion m³ of gas, so this is a significant development. and if member states will achieve even higher targets this year, it allows us to tackle this this challenge that the remaining russian natural gas in our grid still represents.
mr president, yes, thank you for this answer and i see that you are really focused on this issue and i am glad. but i have one quick question, and here's one for you that you might know the answer to. in your state, if you, as a citizen, put solar panels on your roof and asked your electricity provider to connect you, how long would it take in your state, or how long would you as a citizen wait for a response and a connection?
the executive dimension of the european neighbourhood policy has always placed particular emphasis on relations with armenia. in this regard, it is important to commend armenia for the important reforms and thorough democratisation process implemented in recent years, making it a regional leader in democratisation. on the other hand, the security, even the very survival of armenia surrounded by mostly hostile neighbors is at stake right now. the consequences of the renewed conflict in nagorno-karabakh are still being felt in 2020, including the massive destruction of armenian historical and cultural heritage. in september 2022, azerbaijan launched a major offensive on internationally recognized territory of armenia that left large casualties and material damage. since december last year, civilian traffic has been blocked along the lachine corridor between armenia and nagorno-karabakh, threatening the delivery of food and other human needs to the area. ladies and gentlemen, europe must be much more active than it has been in this area and provide economic and any other assistance that armenia needs. otherwise, russia will once again take over the role of protector of armenia and use it to impose its own hegemony in the caucasus region. ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, armenia needs concrete help, not words.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is nice, it is sweet, it is neat, when you come here to applaud the beneficial effects of the eu's action on the inflation reduction act. the fact is, in real life, inflation is completely out of control. in my native austria it is officially around 11%, in real terms, if it were calculated on the basis of an actual shopping basket, it would probably be around 20%. people can no longer afford to live in many areas. this is, of course, a direct result of a totally misguided policy of sanctions, which does not hit the aggressor russia, but the europeans who are the ones who are leading the way in imposing these sanctions against russia. i think it is a bit reminiscent of the movie "the murmur of the night", where you repeatedly take the wrong position on the question of russia and ukraine. i think that the only way to do this is to examine all the factors which could lead to a ceasefire. it is not me, and it is not the evil right-wing parties that you criticize here again and again. it is a very important voice, from the pope to the united states of america, where this war is being questioned and where people are trying to look for a solution that will bring peace. i can therefore only appeal to you once again to stop calling for heavier and heavier weapons, for more and more money, also in ukraine. this war is a war in which people are dying, in which many people are suffering here in europe, and in which we should now look in the direction of establishing peace as quickly as possible.
madam president, the summit is promoting an escalation of armaments, prolonging the imperialist war in ukraine between nato and russia. the european union, the government of the new democracy in greece, with the support of the other parties, are bidding to engage in the slaughter of bases, weapons and the people to pay a heavy bill for the profits of the groups: expensive energy, fuel, food, successive increases in interest rates by the european central bank and loan installments, the hammer in the popular housing. the common eu strategy of the bourgeois parties has liberalised, fragmented and handed over to the groups every strategically important sector. from energy, now water, rail, everywhere the groups make untold, green and digital profits, on a cost-benefit basis, and the people count heavy losses, like the 57 souls in the pre-programmed train collision crime in greece, which should not be covered up and about which no one has spoken here. the exploitative system, the european union, the governments of capital and the organized popular struggle to overturn this situation are to blame. the communist party of greece is fighting on this road.
madam president, the war in ukraine has killed hundreds of thousands of people, not tens of thousands, but hundreds of thousands of people. sending antiquated weapons and military waste to ukraine leads to the end of the war as does the 12th round of sanctions on russia. the fanatical focus of the european union leadership on war and military victory in ukraine without any proposal or any plan that would lead to peace will lead to hundreds of thousands of deaths in the years to come. my proposal is to replace the leadership of the european union with artificial intelligence because it can't get any worse than this.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have followed with great concern the collapse of the silicon valley bank (svb) last friday, especially in view of the potential repercussions on the british branch and the possible contagion to our continent. in the face of the alarming signals coming from credit suisse, we see a pattern sadly similar to what happened 15 years ago. on the one hand we are reassured by the positive signals from our supervisors that european banks are well capitalised and liquid, but on the other hand we hope, indeed we strongly ask, in the light of this crisis and the concerns it raises, that the ecb will listen to reason and prudence and commit itself to preventing further interest rate increases which would drive up the already unsustainable costs of financing for firms and households. furthermore, we have also seen that, despite the fact that the svb was considered one of the best banks in the united states until a few days before its collapse, and despite the complex regulatory framework that we have adopted for 15 years now, crises can still happen. a black swan is never impossible. we therefore have a duty to guarantee the deposits of our savers, which must always be kept safe. the commission and the council must quickly resume negotiations on edis. without the third leg of the banking union, the table will never be stable.
madam chair, we live in a world ruled by virtual money in banks and stock exchanges with no cover in any financial or other sense. the mickey mouse system of non-existent money is designed to make it difficult or impossible for citizens to withdraw cash. kbc brussels cancels accounts of those who dare to withdraw part of their own money from their own account. today, there is hardly a bank that can survive if one percent, just one percent of savers demand a payout of their money. it happened in america, too. abolishing or banning cash will not save the financial system because it is equally disintegrating in the event of excessive printing of cash or excessive invention of virtual money.
mr president, in trying to reach europe since 2015, more than 25 thousand people have died or gone missing at sea. it is estimated that 90% of illegal migrants have paid smugglers to try to reach europe. for criminal networks, it is a very lucrative business activity. for example, it is estimated that in 2015, the trafficking of migrants generated a turnover of between three and six billion euros. more than 629 000 lives have been saved thanks to the european union's involvement in migrant rescue operations. however, to solve humanitarian drowning disasters, it is not enough to organize rescue operations. we need a joint coordinated european response against human trafficking on the one hand and enhanced cooperation with third countries to tackle the problem of illegal migration at its source, in third countries. the european union is not obliged to accept, and will not accept, all those who want to settle in europe simply because the quality of life here is better than in third countries. but it must also not stand idly by while hundreds of people are killed because they were falsely promised that european soil could be illegally seized.
madam president, the fight against organised crime is a fight that knows no borders. the problem of organized crime is a european problem today. 70% of the criminal networks active in europe are already operating in more than three countries simultaneously and more than half of them use violence, alongside the illegal drug trade, which not only keeps billions of euros hidden in our economies but also destroys the lives of thousands and thousands of citizens. the commission's package of measures for police cooperation in the european union has set the right model, which both parliament and the council should continue to follow, namely to approve tools for national authorities, national police, to fulfil their mission of fighting organised crime, which is increasingly sophisticated. in an area of freedom, security and justice, we must give priority to trafficking in human beings and, in particular, to trafficking in minors, to drug trafficking and also, clearly, to what we would call corruption and economic crime, because we know that 60% of these networks are intrinsically linked to corruption, economic crime and fraud, in particular money laundering. my dear colleagues, there is no freedom without security and this is what the greens and the left here should know. a society that is afraid is not a society where there are fundamental rights and where there is freedom. and so the right to liberty is also the right to security.
mr president, madam minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the subject. the european union is also a major player in the fight against organized crime, and the european union is also a major player in the fight against organized crime. this concerns the whole of the union and all its member states and we therefore welcome the inclusion of the fight against organised crime among the priorities of the presidency of the council. and the commission's new proposals on the exchange of information between law enforcement, anti-money laundering and confiscation authorities are certainly decisive steps because, as the italian experience shows, cooperation and property enforcement are essential. but now, as has been repeatedly called for, we must be even more ambitious and go beyond framework decision 2008/841, which is already in danger of being a weapon, as it no longer fits the characteristics of modern criminal organisations that are now manifesting themselves as genuine global economic operators with a strong entrepreneurial vocation. we owe it to all the honest citizens and to those who, in the fight against organized crime, have sacrificed their lives, like rocco chinnici, my father.
in croatia, people say all countries have a mafia, but in croatia the mafia has taken over our country. she realized there were more profitable things than racketeering and smuggling, and she got involved in politics. what is it but organized crime when you put your operatives into state institutions and public enterprises, when you systematically rob everything? when you steal your highways, when you steal your mail, your oil company, your shipyards, your railroads. when you install your people in the judiciary, the prosecution, the police, the judiciary, the health and defense and you look at everything as a prey and use it for your clan by collapsing all these systems. what's it but organized crime when you pass a special law to take over the largest company in the country? it's a kidnapped country. it's the reign of organized crime. that's what we have today in croatia with the hdz government and andrej plenkovic. and all of that is not enough for them. they're not satisfied, so now this criminal organization is stealing from european funds. with 23 investigations open to the european public prosecutor's office amounting to eur 313 million. corruption cases go all the way to the government itself, which has had dozens of ministers removed for corruption. i must congratulate the citizens on their civil courage, on all those who have shown it and i call on them to continue and finish this fight together.
madam president, we are witnessing a shocking and shameful verdict that could have far-reaching consequences for women's rights, democracy, the rule of law and the future of europe. justyna wydrzyńska, a polish activist who has been fighting tirelessly for women's rights for years, was convicted yesterday for, imagine, helping women whose rights were denied, whose dignity was taken away, and whose safety was threatened. the current ruthless government and the polish courts have orchestrated a process in which those who stand in the way of a free and equal europe have been condemned in the worst possible way, using the judiciary. i say to all of you in this room who tirelessly defend such attacks, harassment and violence against women human rights defenders under the guise of national jurisdiction: shame on you! ladies and gentlemen, it seems that it is not enough for us to see women dying in europe, but we are now prosecuting and convicting those who try to save them from death. and worst of all, poland is not alone, and justyna is not the only one. i love the european union, but i don't want to live in a europe that i have to be ashamed of. let's raise our voices and stop this evil!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for this report. i join all the colleagues who have actually taken this platform to express concern about the continued violence against human rights defenders that is being recorded around the world, and especially in authoritarian regimes. the european institutions and member states need to step up their efforts to protect those working to defend human rights. according to the protectdefenders platform, in 2022 there will still be one case of human rights violation reported almost every day. as of 2016, over 4600 such cases have been recorded on the platform, most of which relate to repression of individuals. a large number of them have been subject to violations of their human rights. they have been subjected to execution, torture, beatings, intimidation, arbitrary arrest and detention, death threats, harassment and slander, association, assembly. in most cases, we have to say that the acts committed against human rights defenders violate both international and national laws. however, in some countries, human rights activists are being used or used against by laws that are themselves in conflict with international human rights law. the establishment of an effective normative framework for action in relations with states where the rights of combatants are violated must be a prerequisite for cooperation. to conclude, dignity is not negotiable, it is the foundation of social relations and humanity and it is the reflection of our societies and our progress.
madam president, on the agenda we were advocating a strong position of the european union in favour of fundamental rights activists in the european union in the case of an activist for the rights to free development of personality and sexual and reproductive rights, who is being persecuted precisely for providing an abortion pill to terminate pregnancy in poland. how can we not apply these criteria, as our colleague mr neumann's report clearly proposes, to foreign policy when they must be on exactly the same axis? but there are two temptations: the first is to disguise as a debate on human rights what is a debate on political objectives, which may be debatable and legitimate, but which have nothing to do with human rights as the guiding principle of the european union's foreign policy. and the second is to end this debate on the nature of the european union's foreign policy with third parties whose standards of fundamental rights are incomparably worse than those of the european union, by means of the european union's vigorous, determined and determined defence of human rights.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a pregnant woman in a difficult situation - for economic reasons, because of loneliness - is forced to have an abortion because of a lack of resources. there are people who, in a spirit of solidarity, offer to help you. in many cases, women change their minds: they accept the support and can happily welcome their baby. today, in spain, offering this help can be considered harassment. not only that, but this parliament has proposed to block the entry of civil society organisations which carry out such actions, as being against human rights. i denounce here this grave inconsistency of defending abortion as a human right. it is reckless because it destroys the spirit in which human rights were declared.
member of the commission. – madam president, i thank the honourable members for this debate. despite our actions, too many human rights defenders remain at risk. we all need to work together – the eeas, the commission, the parliament and the eu member states – with a sense of urgency to adapt our actions to today’s challenges. we will continue our unwavering efforts to promote a safe and enabling environment for civil society and hrds, including those active in exile, and continue to condemn any threats or attacks against them.
many thanks to the rapporteur, hannah neumann, and to all of you for this important debate. this conversation is over.
the next item is the commission statement on crossborder adoptions from third countries (2023/2517 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members. the european commission is committed to putting children and their best interests at the heart of eu policies through its internal and external action. this engagement is developed in line with the eu strategy on the rights of the child. currently, there is no eu legislation on international adoptions. this field is regulated by the hague convention of 1993 on protection of children and co-operation in respect of intercountry adoption and by national laws. all eu member states are party to this convention, which is aimed at ensuring that inter-country adoptions take place in the best interests of the child and with respect to the child’s fundamental rights. however, this convention is not open to ratification by international organisations, such as the european union. nevertheless, the commission supports the accession of third countries to the hague convention and contributes to its correct implementation by participating, notably in the meetings of the contracting parties. the eu strongly supports this convention, which aims to respond to the complex legal problems that can arise in the context of inter-country adoptions. it gives effect to article 21 of the un convention on the rights of the child by adding substantive safeguards and procedures to the principles and norms laid down in the un convention. by setting out clear procedures and by prohibiting improper financial or other gain, the hague convention provides for security, predictability and transparency for all parties to an international adoption. it also aims to prevent illicit practices, including the abduction, sale or trafficking of children. as regards trafficking, at the eu level, the eu anti-trafficking directive criminalises the offence of trafficking in human beings. in december 2022, the commission proposed a revision of this directive which includes the addition of illegal adoption for exploitation purposes to the list of the forms of exploitation to be criminalised. overall, the 1993 hague convention is a successful instrument which now has 105 contracting parties. it establishes a system of cooperation between authorities in countries of origin and receiving countries designed to ensure that inter-country adoptions take place under proper conditions. however, there is no obligation for state parties to the hague conventions to prohibit independent or private adoptions. it is estimated that 50% of international adoptions are not carried out under the hague convention. the lack of safeguards in such cases could lead to abusive practices. therefore, it is important for receiving countries that have ratified the 1993 hague convention to extend the same guarantees and protections to adoptions involving children coming from states which have not ratified the convention. under the auspices of the hague conference on private international law, of which the european union is a full member, initiatives such as practice guides and specific training aim to ensure that international adoptions are carried out in the best interests of the child.
dear chairman, dear commissioners, dear colleagues, children, family formation, parenting, and the desire to be a parent are some of the most sensitive areas of human life, and adoption is probably the most noble act of a grown human being. unfortunately, what may be an act of fulfillment for one person, for another, especially the human trafficker, may be an opportunity to gain benefits, and for the child himself, if the minimum civilization requirements are not met, for example, meeting with adoptive parents, life trauma. so we have a responsibility to make the process of adopting a child from another country more transparent and legally impeccable. in the process, all the unknowns, all the fears, must be eliminated, first and foremost for the child himself. adoption of a child must not be financially motivated by either party. adoption is not about taking children, not about treating children as objects. adoption is not and cannot be a cultural or ideological experiment. we have the right to help children in need, but we have no right to take them away from their parents. we have the right to adopt a child in need from a foreign country, but we have no right to exploit the institutional weaknesses of foreign countries. we have the right to strive to be parents, adoptive parents, but we have no right to treat children as objects. let's protect the most vulnerable among us, children, no matter where they are in the world, because their rights far outweigh any of our rights and any of our desires.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. separating children from their parents to give them to others for adoption is a crime against all involved: the children who are taken from their families, the parents from whom the child is taken, and ultimately the adoptive parents. in order to prevent this from happening internationally, we have - the commissioner said that - the hague convention on the protection of children and cooperation in the field of intercountry adoption, to which all eu member states are parties. there are good reasons for allowing intercountry adoptions only in relation to countries which have ratified the hague convention. many member states have already taken this path. but it would also be wrong to put all international adoptions under general suspicion if it were better for the child's welfare than to grow up in an orphanage with a family of loving children. at the same time, there are legitimate wishes for children that people cannot fulfill for various reasons. legal systems allow adoption only for married couples. legal systems allow adoption only for parents of different sexes. i just remember the baby sara saga. that is why we need clear eu law to recognise such adoptions, so that the trafficking of children in this country is stopped.
they're a renew group. the president, i would like to thank you for your efforts in the debate on the european commission. that's the important thing. when the role of the air leanaí was taken up in ireland, many people loved the subject. in 2010, there are rialtas in héireann, thiontaigh mé coinbhinsiún in the hague and ndlí in héireann. there were a lot of people there when it happened. according to many families, the ba mhodh tábhtachtach is an uchtáil chun leanaí i mbaol a chosaint. i welcome the commission's proposal, which is more relevant to one country than to all. it is a necessary step towards the fulfilment of these rights, and the establishment of a european union. i would advise everyone to be careful and follow the laws to avoid being caught in the act of conspiracy in the hague. at last, there's more to do. the european union must end international cooperation in order to end the abuse of children.
on behalf of the ecr club. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for recognising the importance of this topic and supporting my proposal to put it on the agenda of the plenary, especially as the trafficking in human beings directive is coming soon, which will finally classify illegal adoptions as trafficking in human beings. i must say at once that some of my colleagues in the speech section have gone in the wrong direction. so the subject of this point is very clear, it's third country adoption and i ask you not to burden this subject with your ideological agenda in any way. who should be the parent within the european union is another topic. so this is an issue where we should be together, regardless of our worldviews, all children, and especially those from third countries, especially those who are victims of smugglers, are certainly more important than these differences of ours. so we are talking about international adoption. the love that people are willing to give to a carefree child and just adoption is something very noble. but only when the best interests of the child come first. the seemingly small change in which the desire for parenthood is put first, so that people are willing to procure a child from anyone and in any way, very often comes down to buying a child as some commodity with different prices. and then child adoption is linked to human trafficking, and that's why illegal adoptions under the hague convention are part of human trafficking, which is what the new directive is about, and according to unicef, over a million children are abused every year for child prostitution, pornography, slave labor and organ trafficking. crime and pain screaming to the skies. just put yourself in the shoes of the parent whose child was taken or the mother who was told after birth that her child had died when in fact it had been put up for adoption. that is why we are here today and that is why i must say that i am very pleased that the commission to which i referred the question has made a statement like this to focus on this issue. i call on you to ensure better international cooperation and better oversight of intermediaries and ultimately to motivate all countries and through... (the chairman interrupts)
respected chairwoman, the commercial surrogacy industry is booming. same-sex couples and singles have raised the demand for babies, headlines that scream in the headlines of deutsche welle, cnbs in the us, the new york times, the bbc in england, euronews and many other mainstream media. what's surrogacy but child trafficking? what are so-called adoptions from countries where corruption is rampant and children are abducted or bought from their parents for a few dollars in fees than child trafficking? we are witnessing brutal campaigns to deny the right to life to the unborn and to promote the manufacturing and trafficking of children. we live in an age that is not normal.
the case of the croatian nationals arrested in zambia in early december, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, has shown that in the case of international adoptions of children from countries which are not signatories to the 1993 hague convention, there is a great deal of room for manipulation of various kinds, and an additional problem is the limited possibility of verifying the authenticity of the adoption documents issued. that is why adoption from such countries should be prohibited as a matter of urgency. in fact, in countries that are not party to the hague convention, adoptions are not uncommon, with a criminal background that can include corruption, kidnapping, and the sale of children. it is therefore important to send a strong message that practices that leave room for crime should not be tolerated. 105 countries are party to the hague convention, so it remains unclear why anyone would choose to adopt from a country that is not a signatory to the convention. it is therefore crucial that those who decide to adopt internationally take special care to ensure the legality of the adoption, as their desire to parent cannot take precedence over the best interests of the child.
madam president, the link between the destruction of pollinators and the use of synthetic pesticides is clear and thousands of scientists say so. there is a consensus today among scientists, who have been warning us for decades about the dangers, the dangers to our ecosystem, the dangers to agriculture, the dangers to food security. so for those of you who say that not using pesticides will lead to a food crisis, well, i urge you to go and read the reports of scientists who say the exact opposite. this initiative echoes what these scientists have been saying for years. so of course she is welcome here in parliament. as we said, alternative methods exist. and there are also studies that show that when these alternative methods are used, they manage to reduce pesticide use by 80 percent. and so let's help farmers use these alternatives. but we need an ambitious text on this reduction in use. we need the text now, before it's too late.
madam president, commissioner, thanks to tens of thousands of beekeepers, the losses of honeybees, many of them losses towards pesticides, are replaced year by year. but wild pollinators tested in german environmentally protected areas show up to 16 different pesticides. we have a massive decline of wild pollinators. and while farmers have developed a lot of strategies to massively reduce the use of pesticides, some here in the house still have not understood in which direction we are going. the future of agriculture is one that works with nature and not against nature. so to put it clear, for everyone to understand: no nature, no farmers, no food.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the title of this debate is appropriate to the seriousness of the problem. on the one hand, bees are estimated to account for one third of the world's food production and are therefore essential to the agricultural process. on the other hand, we should also remember the fate of farmers and care for their future, because in the last ten years three million farms have disappeared in the european union. we should approach this problem in a reasonable way. no radicalism is absolutely necessary here. i would remind you that the proposals which have been put forward in the committee to reduce the use of pesticides are simply unacceptable. mr. buda has already spoken about this. it can't be that way when we have a dozen times the variation in pesticide use in different countries. the proposal to reduce them by 50% simply does not stand up to criticism. and that submission came up in committee. support for the beekeeper's environment is needed. precision farming and common sense are needed.
madam president, madam commissioner, yes, bees are essential to life on earth and to the maintenance of biodiversity, and we must mobilize very strongly to stop their decline and succeed in reversing the trend. we have also incorporated it by reforming the common agricultural policy and allocating additional resources to the beekeeping sector. i would also like to welcome all the initiatives that are taking place locally. i think about what's happening at home in alsace. these initiatives are growing and involving the agricultural world very closely to work with beekeepers and test new ways of doing things. as legislators, we must be realistic and admit that we will not change the whole range of industrial, agricultural and human activities so quickly. we're not going to get back to the industrial age in a snap of our fingers. nevertheless, we must think together, and i insist on thinking together, about pragmatic measures. i also stress pragmatism to improve biodiversity and the lives of bees. it comes through research, it comes through innovation, it comes through new technologies. but in any case, ladies and gentlemen, this must be done by all the parties involved and by involving the farmers. it will not be done against them and i think we all need to be aware of that.
mr president, what kind of agriculture should we as the public sector particularly encourage, what kind of agriculture is lacking in europe? the answer is clear. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new system of organic production, the introduction of a new system of production of organic products, the introduction of a new system of production of organic products, the introduction of a new system of production of organic products, the introduction of a new system of production of organic products, the introduction of a new system of production of organic products, the introduction of a new system of production of organic products, the introduction of a new system of production of organic products, the introduction of a new system of production of organic products, the introduction of a new system of production of organic products, the introduction of a new system of production of organic products, the introduction of a new system of production of organic products, the introduction of a new system of production of organic products, the introduction of a new system of production of organic products, the introduction of a new system of production of organic products, the introduction of a new system of production of organic products, the introduction of a new system of production of organic products, the introduction of a new system of production of organic products, the introduction of a new system of production of organic products, the introduction of new systems of new systems of production of new products, the new system of production of new products, the new system of new systems of production of new products, the old systems of the old systems of the old systems of the old systems of the old. of course, that includes drastically reducing the use of pesticides and antibiotics and strengthening small-scale farming, and it's clear that we need to give financial support to farmers so that they can switch to agro-organic farming. but believe me, agriculture will then be something that can function in the marketplace, and nature will be grateful to us. and not just nature, but consumers, for their health first and foremost. it's a trend, and we have to take responsibility for it, and that's why i expect all of you to support this thinking. (the speaker agreed to respond to the intervention request by raising his blue card)
the intervention requested by the blue card draw. mr president, i listened carefully to your speech and i fully share your view of european agriculture as being based on organic farming. and of course, it's important to support citizens who want to ensure healthy eating through this initiative. however, in the context of economic uncertainty, high inflation rates, high food prices, can you tell me whether you think that achieving such ambitious goals of a complete elimination of pesticides in the next 12 years could lead to even greater increases in food prices and cause food shortages in the european union, or whether we might need a slightly more nuanced and a little more gradual approach than what is being proposed here?
respond to the intervention requested by raising the blue card. mr. chairman, mr. sokol, i will remind you that in life everything is a process and there is no 1-0 switch, you and i understand that, but if we know what we want in 10 or 20 years, then with the help, above all, of the public sector, yes, and with financial aid and laws and directives we can reach that goal, no matter if we talk about other topics or in agriculture, but without a penny in our pocket, clearly and honestly. and of course, of course, let's not just look at the price, let's look first of all at sustainability, let's look at what our kids are going to eat and how they're going to eat and let's look at health.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the success of this european citizens' initiative to save bees and farmers is a wake-up call to politicians and society who are doing too little to protect our biodiversity and our food. this european citizens' initiative is a clear indication that more and more people across europe are not willing to accept that we are sitting on the fence with the current eu agricultural policy. the dramatic decline in biodiversity, nitrate pollution of groundwater, degraded soils and the contribution of industrial agriculture to climate change are forcing a rethink. the national counterpart to this european citizens' initiative was, incidentally, the bavarian biodiversity referendum, initiated by my party, the ödp, which has now helped bavaria to become one of the best nature conservation laws in europe. and this european citizens' initiative deserves the same success. it's more important than ever. that is why i am calling on my colleagues not to follow the agricultural lobby but to take the success of the european citizens' initiative with all its demands as a mandate that gives us all the necessary impetus for urgently needed steps towards sustainable agriculture and the restoration of biodiversity.
mr president, without pollinators, agricultural production capacity and quality would be substantially reduced. we're not just talking about the honey bee, but the huge community of solitary and community bees and other insects that are irreplaceable in pollination. research is needed in this area to reduce the use of and dependence on pesticide use. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives from the member states. but it is a mistake to narrow the discussion to pesticides. the production model, which is based on the guidelines of a cap that favours increasing concentration of agricultural production, monoculture and intensification of the production model, and the abandonment not only of traditional species and models but also of small and medium-sized producers, thus contributing to the reduction of biodiversity, including pollinators, must be questioned. commissioner, we are repeating today the debate of last june, when i asked you a question. since then, the commission has done nothing to answer these questions.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you, colleagues, for what was a really interesting debate and a very timely one. i think the number of speakers in this debate shows how there is really a huge interest in it, and rightly so. it’s about bees, farmers, but it’s about food. i think also – and you acknowledged this – the citizens’ initiative is a really powerful tool to get people involved in eu policymaking. if you look at this citizens’ initiative, it is very much in sync with the commission’s ongoing efforts to address the decline of biodiversity and accelerate the transition towards more sustainable agriculture and for us as policymakers, that support of our citizens is key. i think it also confirms that we are on the right track with the strategies we adopted under the european green deal and with the two proposals on nature restoration and the sustainable use of plant protection products. but i recognise there is a lot of debate still to be had on those proposals. we will now, with this citizens’ initiative, enter the final stage. the commission will have its formal response, draw its conclusions and announce any action it may intend to take as a follow—up. and that will be done by way of reply by 7 april. i want to also share with you two other proposals we’re examining under successful initiatives from citizens. one is ‘stop finning – stop the trade’ and the second one, ‘save cruelty-free cosmetics’, and there will be one more to follow. i think citizens of europe are engaging more in our policymaking – that’s growing stronger and it’s welcome. but i do hope that it’s reflected in higher turnouts at the next elections for the european parliament. i think our debate and the european citizens’ initiative shows that we take very seriously the concerns expressed by citizens, and we do need the trust of citizens in our ongoing work. if i may, without diverting too much, i was very happy, madame melchior, that you mentioned gardeners and gardening and that bees are also in urban areas and that perhaps we are all tidying up nature too much. and maybe we should just let it be.
the debate is closed.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the commission 'making progress on the bridgetown agenda for 2022' (2023/2600 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr. president, colleagues, the bridgetown initiative is an international initiative on ways to scale up finance, to fund the changes needed, tackling climate change and help communities and vulnerable countries to do that. as we all know, we faced globally many short- and long—term crises over the past few years, and those crises have shown that we need more and better finance that is more readily available to help the most vulnerable countries address global challenges like climate change or pandemics. both low- and some middle—income countries are particularly vulnerable to the effects of climate change. climate—related shocks have the potential to be highly destabilising and the action needed to address them can be overwhelming to the affected countries and communities. so we do need to think about what people are most in need of support, not just which countries. however, rebalanced funding should not come at the expense of low—income countries. we need to maintain the resources allocated to the poorest countries and to fragile or conflict—affected regions. recent reports highlight the gaps in financing for the green transition and for responding to the needs of countries most vulnerable to climate change. this initiative proposes ways to address these gaps in a substantive and operational way. many of its proposals are being discussed in the preparatory working groups for the summit for a new global financial pact organised by president macron and prime minister mottley. this will take place in june. the european commission is actively engaged in these working groups. the european union and its member states are the largest providers of climate finance in the world. but we all know that public finance will never be enough to respond to the scale of the climate and environmental challenge, either in europe or indeed globally. all actors need to be on board. this includes the private sector and multilateral development banks. the bridgetown proposals are particularly relevant for multilateral development banks and the reform process they have recently launched, including the world bank evolution roadmap. the evolution of multilateral development banks will be the focus of many discussions in the coming months in international forums. that includes the world bank and the imf spring meetings in april, then their annual meetings in october. the global financial pact summit in june, organised by president macron and prime minister mottley, is expected to generate additional momentum for the reform process. this was discussed last week by eu ministers for development and a process has started to identify a common european position. colleagues, i now look forward to your views.
for the ppe group. mr. chairman, when a tropical storm hits a small island developing nation, it can destroy the island's infrastructure with significant economic and social consequences. and then the restoration of that infrastructure requires a really large amount of money. but such a small country doesn't have many ways to mobilize capital to rebuild its damaged infrastructure, for a number of reasons: it has, of course, a small economy, it has a small domestic capital market and also because climate change increases financial risks that make loans within the international financial system more expensive. climate change shows that these impacts will increasingly be felt by island states. and it is in this context that the bridgetown initiative was established in barbados in 2022. it aims to mobilise more private and financial resources for climate transformation and better resilience to natural disasters caused by climate change. while small island nations make up only 1 percent of the world's population, when you add the 3.3 billion people living in the tropics, the bridgetown initiative takes on a much broader meaning. better protection of those countries from the devastating impacts of climate change can be achieved, for example, by including natural disaster clauses in debt instruments. the bridgetown initiative also sparked the debate at cop27. i believe that the responsibility for the devastating impacts of climate change is shared and that the most vulnerable countries deserve our support and assistance. they cannot remain in this risk alone, they cannot bear this heavy burden alone. i am very pleased that the commissioner has already announced that the process of supporting these countries has started at european level.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, the bridgetown agenda, which was launched by the prime minister of barbados, mia mottley, in the autumn of 2022, aims to create a coalition of wills to put in place measures to reform the overall architecture of development finance, taking into account the exceptional framework created by the so-called three interconnected crises namely the inflation crisis, the developing countries debt crisis and the climate crisis. one in five countries - with a particular focus on middle and low income countries per capita - is under acute financial and budgetary pressure. the consequences of this systemic crisis for the international financial system, for political stability and for the fight against climate change are catastrophic. i commend the european commission for recognising the bridgetown agenda as a key instrument for action and for supporting its implementation. the commission is taking up as the eu foreign affairs council did on 20 february its commitment to a reform of the global financial system that reduces the debt burden of middle and low-income countries and redirects the priorities of the world bank and other multilateral development banks towards the achievement of the sustainable development goals and, in particular, the climate agenda. as a multilateral power that aspires to lead the twin transitions, embedding in it its values of freedom and solidarity, and to make a strong contribution to the fulfilment of the paris agreement and the 2030 agenda, the european union should therefore continue to support the bridgetown agenda. in this context, i cannot fail to underline the importance of the africa-caribbean-pacific-european union partnership and the urgency of signing and putting into force the post-cotonou agreement.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, the bridgetown agenda is based on an undeniable fact: 60% of low-income countries were at risk of becoming over-indebted by 2022, compared to 30% in 2015. and small island developing states are at the forefront of this crisis. this is not unusual for certain loans to china. the latter would be encouraged to participate equally in a possible global effort to alleviate the situation. moreover, china's invisible debt, i.e. debt not accounted for by the imf, weighs heavily on the developing island states which are at the heart of this agenda. in this respect, let us begin by demanding that everyone take responsibility. furthermore, it is clear that transparency is not always the case. barbados, a key country on the agenda, was on the fatf's grey list in february for money laundering and terrorist financing, among other things. so is jamaica or haiti. in short, while there are relevant points on the agenda, the fundamentals of development are unchanging: sound public management and transparency that inspire confidence in investors and donors. until these conditions are met, raising the most vulnerable countries to the level of development that we hope for would, alas, be illusory.
mr. chairman, the global financial infrastructure needs a radical transformation and the bridgetown initiative is not a big enough step towards that goal. we're seeing the collapse of the big western banks right now. the financial system that comes from the west, which is based on the debt doctrine and endless borrowing, which is based on the real economy being subordinated to the financial markets, instead of the other way around, is unfair, exploitative and unsustainable. just look at what prices capital is being offered to america, and how many african countries? the general trend in the west is the trend of increasing the money supply, and in the last few years, especially since the beginning of the corona crisis, there has been the creation of incredible amounts of new dollars and new euros. the share of the us dollar in world trade, and especially oil trade, is declining year by year. so we have more and more money, and fewer and fewer people who want to use it. and there are fewer and fewer markets that actually need it. if these two trends continue, it can't end well for the dollar or for the west. at the same time, the brics countries are working on projects to get rid of the dollar and replace it with other currencies, and the west no longer has the power to stop it. the abolition of the yoke of financial exploitation will be the final step in the decolonization and equality of the peoples of africa, asia and the americas.
mr. chairman, today we discussed standards for the protection of human rights. why do we still have so many human rights problems today, in the year 2023? it's because of the double standards. rules that apply to some don't apply to others. you can hear it in the calls for regime change, we've seen cases of undermining individual governments, subversion, even invasion of those countries. and such things, of course, must be punished. however, then the rule must be for all, then all must be punished. there's a lot of talk in my home about ukraine, and these days we're marking the 20th anniversary of the invasion of iraq. this is an example of double standards, and as long as such standards exist, we cannot hope to change the human rights situation. i also want to see a day when people talk about human rights being undermined not because there's a regime in that country that wants to undermine it, but because we really need to care about these people and their rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, enlargement policy is one of the fundamental and most important policies of the european union. on the other hand, ten years ago, almost ten years ago, croatia was the last country to join the european family and the logical question is what has been done in terms of enlargement in those ten years. i'd say not too much. unfortunately, not much. we can look for the culprit on either side, but it won't get us anywhere. what i am happy about, however, is that the recent expansion of the western balkans has intensified. i want to tell the commission and the commissioner first of all that they are intensifying this work, this effort, to make the most of this time until the end of the mandate and to have only one objective, and that is that when the new multiannual financial framework comes, that is, i am talking about 2027, we have some western balkan country ready to join our big european family.
mr. chairman, the path to the introduction of the single charger has not been easy or straightforward. the commission also notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are likely to have a significant impact on the situation of the union industry. when i became a member of the european parliament, not everyone believed that we would be able to introduce a single charger because the lobbying of the tech giants was truly unprecedented. however, by adopting the single charger resolution 2020, we have achieved a great victory for all consumers in the european union. ultimately, a new law was passed last year that will make usb-c the standard connector for all smartphones, laptops and other electronic equipment. however, information has emerged that those tech giants that have opposed the introduction of a single charger for years intend to produce usb-c certified chargers only for their users. by doing so, they would not only be playing the new law, but also mocking the european parliament. i therefore call on the european commission to ensure the proper implementation of the single charger law, because without proper implementation the law is just a dead letter on paper.
in order to achieve the climate objectives, it is essential that the energy transition does not lead to a collapse in the competitiveness of european industry and that it is fair to citizens, who fear that, with general inflation, they will have to bear the additional cost of the green transition. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the following measures: furthermore, the green plan must reflect the principle of solidarity. there can be no first-class citizens and second-class citizens in europe. i therefore particularly welcome the increase in the modernisation fund, which supports ten member states, including croatia, in modernising their energy systems and improving energy efficiency. the most important thing is that the implementation of the european green policy does not lead to the deindustrialisation of europe and the collapse of the living standards of our citizens. while the agreement reached is not ideal, it contains many mechanisms to protect the european way of life from ideological green extremism and should be supported in these circumstances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic data interchange systems, including the use of electronic data interchange systems, to the provision of services to consumers and to the provision of services to consumers. under such circumstances, we must ensure that no one is left out. while we are aware that digitisation has many positive aspects, we must not forget that the protection of citizens' data must remain a priority, especially in challenging geopolitical circumstances and especially for sensitive data such as health data. the digital compass is an ambitious european commission target that by 2030 key public services must be fully accessible online and 80% of citizens should be using digital identification by then, making it much easier to use digital services. however, surveys have shown that as many as 42% of eu citizens lack basic digital skills, and that achieving the digital goals would not be possible without systematic education of citizens. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the digital agenda for education and training, which is a key element of the digital agenda for education and training. especially on islands and in mountainous areas. the digital provision of public services can significantly reduce the administrative burden, in particular for smes. in this respect, we need a more ambitious approach at all stages of building permits. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni). unfortunately, when determining ownership, citizens often have trouble accessing land records, its historical records, which can lead to legal uncertainty. the report focuses on simplifying administrative procedures for citizens. therefore, it is important to emphasise that a large proportion of citizens do not have printers, and we believe that citizens should be able to fill in, sign and submit forms digitally, without the need to print. furthermore, as citizens increasingly use mobile phones, we also believe that all public service websites must be adapted to be accessed from mobile devices. it is also important that member states implement the 'once only' principle, which means that they do not require citizens to submit repeatedly the documentation that public authorities already hold. the commission should also be able to use the information it has received from the member states to provide information on the implementation of the union's policies and to provide information on the implementation of the union's policies and measures. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states to enable them to take appropriate measures to ensure the protection of health data. furthermore, we noted that digitalisation can also have a positive impact on the enforcement procedure and therefore we invited the commission to assess how digitalisation can reduce the costs of enforcement for consumers, and these high costs are a very big problem for many of them today. i also focused in particular on public procurement in the report. the commission considers that the use of the complaint procedure to prolong the procurement procedure is not justified. the report therefore invites the commission to assess the extent to which remedies are being abused and to consider ways of preventing them. the report concludes that the eu should be able to take action to address the challenges of the digital age and to ensure that the digital economy is not left behind. i would also like to thank all the colleagues who have worked on this report and i believe that it will be adopted by a large majority in the plenary tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, are we being led by goldfish? redfish who have forgotten all the lessons of the war in ukraine and who repeat the same economic and political complacency. economic complacency: olaf scholz, who is going to beijing to repeat the same nonsense with xi jinping's china as with putin's russia, where in the end the interests of volkswagen outweigh the survival of the uyghur people. political complacency of emmanuel macron, who will also defend private interests, but in addition adds a form of non-alignment that is totally frightening. it has divided europe, it has weakened support for taiwan and ukraine, and it has weakened the alliance of democracies. and today he is supported by the far right, friends of bashar al-assad and putin, and by all those who are so anti-american that they are ready to support any anti-american dictatorship. it cannot be that, and it cannot be non-alignment as a concept that will resolve all the ambiguities. the question is not who we're aligned with. the question is, what are we aligned with? we must be aligned on our values, therefore: unity of europe on human rights. and we have to align ourselves with our interests, so: it's the buy european act, it's the embargo on all products of forced labour, and finally it's a european budget for industry on the scale of what the united states does. this is the challenge for europe: not non-alignment, which means nothing, but alignment on our values and together.
mr. chairman, please! the recent visits of european leaders to china have shown that europe is not the same as the eu institutions and that europe is diverse. the french president, the president of the european commission and the german foreign minister presented different visions of a european strategy. the strategy we have had, if we have had one, has not been very satisfactory, because europe is weaker and china is stronger. but our common strategy can only be developed when these different views on european foreign policy are in conflict and the member states are allowed to defend their positions (including president macron), not when the majority rule is proposed. only then will we avoid repeating the mistakes of the wandel durch handel strategy with russia. unfortunately, a lot of what was said in this house in this debate is similar to what we said about russia a few years ago.
mr president, 'when china wakes up, the whole world will tremble', napoleon once said. china is awake. the world is shaking. emmanuel macron and ursula von der leyen both went to try to appease the chinese president and were only humiliated. no need to dwell on macron, whose word has no value and who only says what his audience of the day wants to hear. but the whole european union has no coherence towards china. i will take just one example, but the most emblematic, of the electric car. the end of the sale of thermal vehicles in 2035 effectively gives china the keys to our energy and industrial destiny, since it has a near monopoly in the extraction of metals for electric batteries and, moreover, has a considerable lead in competitive electric cars. this is the european strategy: to commit suicide in our car industry in favour of china. and that's one example out of a thousand. the globalist policy of relocation that you have followed for the last fifty years has led you to entrust our destiny to china. without a break with this policy, you will remain a prisoner.
mr. chairman, thank you, colleagues. we are witnessing the creation of a multipolar world right now. he is unavoidable. let's talk about the vision of that future. it's not just china, which is being discussed here today, but india, latin america, indonesia, africa and others. the time of the strong west is forever passing, and the political elites of the west are most deserving of it. the elites who are always right, who never make mistakes or apologize, and who certainly never answer for anything. they'd rather meet with the davos team than look for millions of their own citizens who are flooding the streets in protest because their lives are unbearable. elites who, instead of empowering citizens and their prosperity, would rather empower blackrock's portfolio. such elites make the west's share of population, of the economy, of political influence, a shadow of what it was. it is europe that is losing the most, and will lose the most. if the present policies continue, europe will be turned into a poverty which no one respects or asks for anything, and its economy into a museum of industrial heritage. a multipolar world is good for smaller countries like croatia because they'll have more choices and more room to develop. if there's no understanding in one place, there will be in another. no more pressure and blackmail. croatia will be able to take advantage of business opportunities in asia and africa that it couldn't before because they bothered some in the west. it's time for a new age!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is important that the european union develops a coherent strategy towards china, as the title of this item of the agenda says. the strategic compass we adopted not so long ago speaks a clear language, seeing china as a strategic partner, as an economic competitor and as a systemic rival. all three dimensions must be considered. the systemic rival, unfortunately, seems to be coming to the fore more and more. since i was able to visit china several times more than half a decade ago, i have seen a marked deterioration in the situation - in terms of human rights, in terms of freedom of conscience. hong kong, for example, was a thriving commercial city, has become a police state, in a sense. the systemic rivalry is great, and even on the global stage, you have to say, show me who your friends are, and i'll tell you who you are. so please don't make friends with putin, russia and the atrocities they commit. economic competition requires reciprocity. it is not possible that european companies do not have legal certainty in china, while chinese companies in the european market get legal certainty like everyone else. and of course, the strategic partnership has to be re-examined.
mr president, mr high representative, mr vice-president of the commission! yes, mrs von der leyen made an interesting speech. let us look after our economic interests, let us look after our technological interests. that's right, you're right. she mentions human rights. also very true most massive violations in china. what does that mean? this aspect is not being dealt with, and that is a problem. are we prepared to use our global sanctions regime against the companies that provide the technologies that are used to persecute and oppress people? are we prepared to design our trade relations to meet the standards against forced labor in xinjiang and elsewhere? are we ready to make the supply chain law so strong that it actually has teeth? this is what we need most. and can we finally ensure in our development and external economic policies that where european money is spent, only companies that respect our human rights standards benefit? this is a common task, ladies and gentlemen, for all the european institutions, including us in this house.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens, three decades ago, europe was a world power, and china was a relatively poor developing country. europe was led by strong national politicians then, and today it is led by men in dresses. today, china is the world's economic and military superpower, and the eu is completely irrelevant on the world map, except as a tourist destination. today, the european union is pushing for electric cars. 95% of lithium, without which electric cars cannot be produced, is produced today in china. when, after russia, we now impose sanctions on china, we will therefore completely stop the production of cars in the european union. is that where we're going? to go to the bottom? no, thank you.
mr president, dear commissioner, colleagues, year after year, europe has been facing events that put our preparedness, readiness and resilience to the hardest tests. year after year with the budget, with the budgetary procedure, we once again have an important task to set out europe’s priorities and determine how much funding we wish to allocate in order to achieve them. the focus is not only on the challenges that are currently on our doorsteps – and there are many, but also on investments with which we need to achieve a stable future for europe, a stable future for our citizens, primarily through digital and green transition, but also through tackling uneven demographic change and uneven development. at the same time, we cannot neglect issues affecting europe’s security, including our capacity to deal with the growing migration flows. we need funds for better border management. we need funds for necessary infrastructure, including the humanitarian assistance, including the reception capacities, because we need them to really remain and maintain the level which will match our clear commitment for a comprehensive migration pact. the budget is much more than just a financial document, it’s a statement of our values and let it reflect the priorities and values of our citizens, and let us support a stronger and more competitive europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the mediterranean as the cradle of western civilization, of our civilization, and the directions we witness in the immediate vicinity of the croatian border are under strong migratory pressure. all of this is very reminiscent of the migration crisis in 2015. clearly, along with determination at the borders, solidarity is needed with those who need protection most. first of all, to ukrainian refugees, but also to the needy who, fleeing across the mediterranean, are trying to find peace and security that they do not have in their own countries. however, the situation, the situation around the search and rescue operations in the mediterranean is not satisfactory. it is not reasonable and not sustainable to leave the patrol of the southern sea border in the mediterranean to ngos. we need a new and more responsible system of migration and asylum, a system that can respond to this crisis, that is solidarity with those who are truly in need, but also firm against smugglers who threaten the security of our continent. i therefore welcome the adoption of positions on key legislative proposals, the reform of the migration and asylum systems in the committee responsible and hope that together with the council of the european union we will move towards a more responsible, resilient and normal system than exists today. migration is a concern for more than 70% of europeans. we must not miss this historic moment, this historic opportunity, because we must remember that today we decide how we will live and how we will work tomorrow, that today we decide whether we will live tomorrow in peace and order or whether we will live tomorrow in chaos.
mr. chairman, thank you very much. thanks to the european union's engagement in the mediterranean, more than 629 000 lives have been saved since 2015. unfortunately, the number of illegal migrants has been increasing rapidly in recent times, with an estimated 90 percent of them paying smugglers to try to reach europe. criminals make billions of dollars in annual sales from this. the european union's policy must therefore be to combat illegal migration by punishing smugglers as severely as possible. in addition, we need to do more to protect the union's external borders from illegal crossings and work with third countries to reduce the number of migrants trying to reach europe. the european union is not obliged to accept all those who want to settle in europe just because the quality of life here is better than in their own countries. accepting mass uncontrolled migration would mean the end of the european way of life and we must fight against it with all means.
madam president, i have previously opposed the creation of parallel structures in security matters because i thought that nato structures were sufficient. but i changed my mind after the occupation of crimea. i think that the capacity for a quick deployment of 5,000 men is really just a trifle. it's a start, and we need to have a much larger security force to deploy quickly. we have often lamented that we don't have that kind of capacity available. so as much as i support a synergistic approach with nato, i think the aim is not to weaken nato either, but to really seek synergy in that coordination approach, so i believe we have to use every space in article 44 to increase the security of the euro-atlantic area. it's our commitment too. we must not be the black passengers in this security issue and in this time that poses very high geopolitical challenges to us.
madam president, my own country is one of a diminishing number of eu member states that are non-aligned, and this is a popular position. however, we’re not ignorant of the vast challenges that the european union faces, and indeed the irish government will host a consultative forum on ireland’s international security policy. bearing in mind cyber threats to ireland, we host 40% of eu data in ireland. seventy per cent of atlantic undersea internet cables pass through irish waters. i think it’s important to underline as well that despite our non-alignment, we have contributed considerably to csdp in the past and will continue to do so into the future, including operation irini on the implementation of the arms embargo on libya. and another way we contribute to csdp is our involvement with eu battlegroups. we have participated in the training and readiness of eight such battlegroups in the past, despite their limitations, and the government approved ireland’s participation in the german-led battlegroup that will be on standby from 2025. and in this regard, particularly in relation to rapid deployment capacity, i think it would be important that the eu respects the constitutional traditions and the traditional security policy of ireland and non-aligned member states.
madam president, like my colleague, barry andrews, i too obviously come from ireland and would have some reservations regarding our participation obviously, as a neutral country, in a rapid deployment force at european union level. nevertheless, i can understand and see the need for both military and humanitarian support for ukraine. and i cannot understand the logic of some people saying that by supporting ukraine militarily, we are helping to prolong the war. what’s the alternative? don’t support them and let russia overrun the country? that’s really the logic of it. that’s absolutely bizarre, because if russia takes over ukraine, then they set their eyes in another country until putin has established the old ussr. so that’s not logical under any circumstance. also, i would have to say that in terms of aid generally, i’m glad to say that my country has given a lot of support, particularly in humanitarian aid, which would match what we might have given if we gave military aid. but definitely we have to look at our future, how defences are organised, because if you can’t defend yourself, you’re going to be attacked.
madam chairman, the primary and foremost military-political defense alliance in the northern hemisphere is the north atlantic treaty known as nato. for the most part, the countries you come from don't pay even two percent of the contribution they should be making to support their own defense. for many years, these countries that you represent have bought social peace by knowingly underfunding, underfunding their armed forces. on the other hand, most of you are constantly attacking european agencies like the one that protects the frontex borders. in the last debate, just 10 minutes ago, you were explaining to us how we should protect our external borders and not defend our internal borders. now you're telling us in 10 minutes that we should use our own battle groups to intervene in kabul, afghanistan. it doesn't seem very real to me, and it doesn't seem very reasonable. i think there's a medical term for it, but since i'm not a doctor, i'd prefer the political one. it's called hypocrisy, duplicity and inconsistency. the main defence union is the north atlantic treaty and anything related to article 44 of the treaty on european union should be used only in support of it. the rest is not serious. you know that. let's spare the european taxpayers this slightly scratchy tongue.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the debate today testifies your continued interest and engagement on strengthening the eu as a credible security and defence sector. the first progress report on the implementation of the strategic compass of last march highlights the importance of taking a quantum leap forward in our joint ambition in security and defence. your report is a valuable and important contribution to the efforts to increase the union’s ability to respond quickly and decisively to imminent threats and crisis situations outside the union. the operationalisation of the eu rapid deployment capacity by 2025 will be key to make this a reality. we will continue keeping you informed on our progress and taking note of your views. we thank you very much for your support for a stronger union security and defence policy.
the rapporteur. madam president, there is a clear consensus in this house on this report, particularly with regard to support for the establishment of the rapid response capacity. some of your speeches have stood out. i think that learning necessarily has to come out of the battlegroups. we want to build this new instrument largely because the battle group's operationality has failed. they've never been activated. they have not been activated for operational reasons and for reasons of political will. we need to learn the lesson now that we've created a new tool: rapid response capability. what kind of nature is it? we are not creating new european troops. we are creating an instrument which allows us to activate troops from the national armies, let us be very clear, which are rotated in twelve months and which are coordinated and integrated and which work together to make it easy and effective to activate them on behalf of the european union, with unanimity in the council with the member states. what are we going to activate them for? rescue and evacuation, assisting our missions, assisting with the withdrawal, initial entry and stabilization phases. it is already marked what we want to use this rapid response capability for. there are a couple of dilemmas in the interventions that i reject: the dilemma between diplomacy and defence, between diplomacy and defence capabilities. indeed, having security and defence capabilities makes us a more credible and effective diplomatic actor in the world. or between nato or european capabilities. we do not work with nato alone, we work primarily in nato and we need to be in nato a credible actor and ally. in conclusion, i thank all members and the staff of the groups for their work. i would also like to do so to all the members' offices, without which we could not do our work, including my own office, which has worked very hard on this report.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held tomorrow, april 19, 2023. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. one of the keys to the future success of the european union is the development of a common military defence capability. however, the war in ukraine has highlighted serious shortcomings in european defence capabilities, while also posing new and emerging security challenges to the eu member states, such as mass migration and terrorism. only a union with strong defence capabilities can meet these challenges and become a relevant security actor at the global level. it has become imperative to revive and strengthen the defence industry, which has been weakened and neglected by the irresponsible decisions of left-liberal governments, and to create a strong and capable european army. hungary is ready to play an active role in this area, and is implementing one of the largest military development projects in east-central europe. we also support the expansion of the european defence policy institutional framework, including the development of civilian security capabilities and the strengthening of rapidly developing capabilities. however, the political-ideological elements in the defence policy reports are unacceptable. no left-liberal programme can jeopardise the defence capabilities of the european union and its member states, the establishment of the framework of the common security policy. the european union must respond swiftly and effectively to security challenges based on a consensus among its member states, and the institutions that protect european citizens must not fall victim to left-wing ideological conquest.
a uachtaráin, the ets is one of the eu’s most important policy tools for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in europe – not only this, but significantly reduces our dependency from russia and others. it should also serve to keep the prices under control in the long term. for sectors covered by cbam, free allowances will be phased-out, with a slower start than the commission proposal and a later phase-out deadline than the ep mandate. i believe what we have on the table is a very good result for the climate, for industrial innovation and for our citizens. in light of the current crisis, i am happy to see the breathing space afforded to industry while also supporting the 2030 ambition. by putting a price on carbon emissions, this provides an economic incentive for companies to reduce their emissions, essentially being a market mechanism centred on an innovation approach. there is a need to ensure that the ets is flexible enough to accommodate new technologies and innovations. the ets therefore must be flexible enough to accommodate new technologies and innovation and designed in such a way that it can adapt to changes in the economy and the energy sector. i think this has been achieved.
madam president, let me explain why i voted today to revise the european union's emissions trading system. this system is a carbon market based on a trading system that sets emission ceilings in energy-intensive industries and energy-producing sectors. it is the main instrument used by the european union to reduce emissions. it covers approximately 40% of the total co2 emissions in the european union and since its introduction in 2005, emissions in the european union have decreased by 41%. this is the main reason why i believe that this directive and this system make sense and work. this adoption, i.e. revision, means the introduction of the ets for fuels, heating and road transport. i voted yes, even though there is a risk of increased spending for citizens, but it is associated with strong social guarantees. so i'm not worried that there's going to be some major impact on citizen spending.
madam president, i voted strongly against the report on the review of the european union's greenhouse gas emissions trading system, mainly because it extends its scope to include buildings and transport. yes, there is a delay mechanism, the so-called emergency brake, but it only works for a year. it's to say that after this one year, the factors have not changed and all the changes that were planned will take effect again. we can't afford to miss a default mechanism for free locations. the jump is from 2.5% in 2027, to 5% in 2028, to 12.5% in 2029. for the colleagues in this chamber who voted in favour of the motion, i assume that everything is very easily achievable and far in the future. but they have hardly considered, and hardly cared, about these consequences for the local industry. because, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about sectors that will not be able to afford these changes for years to come. this is pure communism, this is tax-selling air, and this is one of the main reasons for the deindustrialization of the european continent, for the flight of business in america and in europe, for the loss of jobs, for the insane consequences of the green deal. and every one of these crazy things that are being played out here is a game, and it's having a direct impact on the taxpayer's pocket, and that's why we have to vote against it. i'm afraid that won't do.
madam president, the review of the co2 emissions trading system was an opportunity not to be missed. under this agreement, the electricity sector and heavy industry will emit 62% less co2 by 2030 than in 2005 and the proceeds from the auctioning of allowances will be used exclusively for climate investments. but industry will continue to benefit from free allowances until 2034, while, with the extension of the carbon market to transport and heating, citizens will pay as early as 2027. this is a deeply unfair measure, which will create greater disparities between the countries of the european union on the basis of their dependence on fossil fuels and their level of wealth. the compensation from the social fund is a step in the right direction, but it is not enough to protect vulnerable families. the european union, by persisting in its liberal approach to the energy transition, is making a regrettable mistake. sure, carbon has to come at a cost, but it can't be done on the backs of citizens who are not accountable for their leaders' climate inaction. the green deal must be a social pact and we will continue to fight to make that happen.
madam president, both the european union and the european parliament support the commitments of the paris agreement. all member states have supported these commitments, and the european union generates half of its emissions in transport and energy alone. if we're serious about our environmental commitments, we need to cut those emissions drastically. the ets has proved its worth despite some doubts about the possibility of price fluctuations. and it's the improvement in the oversight of issuing these permits, which are securities, that i think will turn the critics of this system off their error. we'll have a better system with better insurance, with the ability to extract allowances, with the ability to even stop trading those allowances. there's a whole set of restraint mechanisms to make the system really work. and again, our critics have offered no other solution to meet our commitments under the paris agreement.
a uachtaráin, the carbon border adjustment mechanism seeks to ensure that the carbon price paid by industries in europe will also be paid by those importing goods from third countries. importers of carbon-intensive goods will be held accountable to pay the same levy as is imposed on comparable domestic industries under the eu ets, allowing for the extension of the carbon price paid by eu firms to foreign producers of the same goods. of course, there are concerns about the impact of the cbam on certain industries, particularly those that are heavily reliant on imports. it is important that we take a careful and considerate approach to implementation of the cbam in order to minimise any negative impacts on these industries. however, i believe that there are also opportunities to benefit from cbam, particularly if we are proactive in our approach. the climate transition is fundamental to europe’s future economy, but we must remain competitive and i think cbam should help to do exactly that.
madam president, ireland very well represented there with the kelly/flanagans, i have to say. i am disappointed with the development of many aspects of the file in the trilogue process compared to the ep position. in the negotiations, the only sectorial extension that was accepted by the council in the end was hydrogens. this, to me, was very disappointing. the biggest loss in the negotiations, though, was the lack of support for least developed countries. the agreement only contains a reporting obligation of the eu support to decarbonising manufacturing sectors in the ldcs. there is no obligation of financial support and no indicated minimum level for the support, which was the ep position. i still consider cbam to be an important new instrument in the fight against climate change and because of this i voted in favour of the provisional agreement.
the uachtaráin, ruthaíodh iarmhairtí social of dheasca ardú praghais in the mbreoslaí iontaise. the uachtaráin is the head of the government of the republic of ireland. i'm going to make a big deal out of it. in addition, they make microaghnóthais agus daoine which are used to iompar a bhraitheann ar bhreoslaí iontaise sna cliatháin chomh maith. for example, there is no need for people to use the sustainable fashion model because they don't have a god and they don't have a place where they live. it's a little bit of a shock to the system. in fact, there are different situations in different countries and regions and everywhere in europe, depending on the effects they have on the environment. they have an offer and they're going to take laws on social problems and give them to you. to do in the problems of the air and the sea is a dream that is always unfulfilled. the scheme will provide investment support to companies that have been found to be in breach of the law and are liable to suffer damage as a result of their failure to comply with the law. i'm afraid that you'll have to vote for me.
madam president, i would like to explain why i supported the establishment of the social fund for climate action. this fund is directly linked to the revision of the allowance trading system and will therefore benefit those households, businesses and transport users who could be affected by the inclusion of greenhouse gas emissions from buildings and road transport, which is the scope of the new revision of the ets 2 directive. for those who ask what the direct impact of the revision of the allowances will be, i say that there will be room for compensation for those who would be affected by the changes, especially those who would be affected by changes in the price of heat or transport.
madam president, there will be no transition unless we have a just transition and a fair transition that people can afford. i don’t think there’s anyone out there that doesn’t want to see a transition, but many people just can’t see how it’s possible because they can’t afford it. i think this is really good news that we now have a social climate fund. for the first time, we have a creation of a fund aimed at mitigating the social costs of climate transition for vulnerable households. it must be so frustrating for people sitting at home looking at you can get 40 % or 50 % towards getting your house done, you get a certain percentage towards getting a new car and they’re sitting there and they’re listening to news about climate change, they’re listening to david attenborough making them feel like, ‘my god, i’m an awful person’, and they want to do something about it but they can’t do anything about it, because they can’t afford to do it. it’s even more frustrating for people who live in houses that are badly insulated, less well insulated than any other houses, that they are the very last people who can afford to pay for this stuff. so a social climate fund is essential to our future on this planet.
madam chair, i cannot support this policy. and while the commission is giving money through the climate fund to save the environment and households, it is actually destroying the environment and households. i will give you an example from our country, croatia, where jaspers and dg regi, which are commission bodies, send tens and even hundreds of millions of euros to create waste management projects that destroy croatian households, local communities and the environment. we recently had the findings of the national government audits of croatia that confirmed what i've been saying for years here, and which is still unchanged, but i'll insist on it. so, these are waste management centers that are basically a factory of garbage that will have no one to sell, no quality and will only create a new landfill. we already have environmental pollution in the built centers of marishkin and kashijun and now, on the same principle, nine more such centers are to be built on completely failed, bad projects. i ask the commission to finally stop verifying the disastrous projects that destroy croatian budgets, communities and households!
madam president, the fit for 55 package is a comprehensive piece of legislation that provides a systematic solution to environmental protection. on the other hand, it will inevitably lead to price increases, particularly affecting vulnerable households and smes. i therefore welcome the fact that, as part of this package, we are also setting up a social climate fund, which aims to alleviate energy and transport poverty. i am convinced that actions to be funded from this fund, such as temporary direct income support for vulnerable users or investment in buildings, will have a great potential to mitigate the negative impacts of policies on the achievement of climate objectives. at the same time, however, it is essential that member states draw on the fund responsibly and that their national projects are based on the principles of transparency, efficiency and the lowest possible administrative barriers.
madam president, i also supported this motion because i consider our climate commitments to be really serious. and the cornerstone of our ets 2, which we have already approved, is the social fund for climate action. it represents our responsibility towards vulnerable people and also towards investments to be directed to the national budgets of the member states. the amount of 80 billion euros that is set aside for this system is, in my opinion, sufficient. it will be subject to further review and is intended to serve to direct 37.5% to vulnerable households. i hope no one falls through that net. this is, after all, the task of the member states' governments, which are to submit plans for drawing on this fund. i just have to wonder a little bit that some of my colleagues were able to not vote for the ets system where this money is created, but at the same time support its distribution, that is to say the distribution in the social fund for climate action. it's a little weird.
madam president, i voted against this report and the previous ones with conviction for one simple reason. this is again bureaucratic redistribution of resources, this is taxation of entrepreneurship, this is a tax on air, this is the forcible destruction of a working economy. the aviation industry needs development, not brakes to be put on it. the aviation industry is connecting quickly across the european union, in the east and the south, where there are no well-built railways, no well-built roads, and this is an opportunity for people to travel freely, to trade, to work, to increase their wealth. what is happening now and what happened in this room today is absolutely bureaucratically imposing new regulations, new taxes, new taxation, impeding industry and ultimately destroying industry from within, the freedom of movement that should be a fundamental freedom in the european union and that has made this union what it is. now, at this moment, my colleagues in this room are working hard and consistently against all of these ideas and all of these economic foundations on which this union was built and are slowly redistributing and discarding production outside of it. it's wrong, it's unacceptable, that's why i voted against it.
madam chair, i cannot support this report because it inappropriately regulates the relationship between the two organizations. one is the european union, the other is the council of europe. we are here in strasbourg, in the european parliament, just a few metres over there is the council of europe building, a few hundred metres further on is the european court of human rights building. and it is this european court of human rights that should respect human rights, but in many cases it does not. many croats, after becoming disappointed in the croatian judiciary, use all the tools of the croatian judiciary, have the right by convention to just come here to strasbourg and what happens to them then? 97% of all cases of croats seeking justice that arrive in strasbourg are declared inadmissible. so, you don't get to the point at all, you don't see the judge, you just dismiss it. this document doesn't deal with that essence, which is what should be one of the key things, but it's not. therefore, i cannot support this report.
mr president, when bitcoin was introduced 14 years ago, it revolutionised the world of finance. it was the world’s first decentralised digital payments infrastructure. the underlying technology of bitcoin still promises an endless potential of economic opportunity and freedom. and isn’t it ironic that we are now talking about a centralised database controlled by government institutions? why do we need a digital euro? we are already working on instant payments and digitalisation of finance. now, i was told that we need this so we can compete with china. well, back in the day we would counter communist china with policies of rollback or containment, not by copying it. yet the european institutions press ahead and invest into a project with no added value, leaving many citizens worried about their privacy and lack of democratic control by national parliaments. the digital euro is a solution looking for a problem, and for now would be best left on ice.
the reasons why the european central bank wants to introduce this digital euro, mr president, do not, in our view, lie in the various fallacious arguments put forward by the european elite, but in the further steps which we as citizens have seen our governments take over the last decade towards the society of absolute control. today, this digital currency is being introduced for political reasons, even more so than before with the euro. the need for this digital currency to stay ahead of the disruptive market actions of facebook and mastercard is a fallacy, because it can be contained in other ways. the fact that it would contain the bankruptcy of a commercial bank following a banking crisis is a fallacy because supervisory and resolution mechanisms exist for that. the continued coexistence of the euro and the digital euro is a fallacy, because a simple new political decision could end it. and criminals should be dealt with directly by a more efficient government, not through a totalitarian super-control over the lives of all citizens. in short, there is much more reason to fear that this new and essentially programmable government controlled currency will risk controlling not only revenue but also expenditure. like a social media account, a political currency like this will be able to limit or delete your behavior and your opinion via your spending with the touch of a button. the co2 fines for bad citizens approved here yesterday will be immediately available for timmermans and his successors to collect. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the community. and i'll end with this warning from george orwell's animal farm: these people don't see that if you encourage totalitarian methods, the time may come when they will be used against you instead of for you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's topic is the digital euro. when we talk about a digital euro, i say cash, cash, cash. cash is the guarantee of freedom. the position i'm taking here is to preserve the freedoms, both personal and economic, of the croatian citizens i represent. in the world, unfortunately, there are powerful globalization and corporate groups that boast from davos that they have penetrated every cabinet of every government. these men are enemies of the freedom of the people and the sovereignty of the nation. in the case of twitter, however, we see corrupt governments and powerful corporations working together against citizens and their personal economic freedoms. we see that it has been used massively to monitor, control and censor citizens and their rights to freedom of thought and freedom of expression. since edward snowden, we know that the u.s. government shamelessly spies on its citizens. it's not just america, european institutions and governments have already abused digital technologies. there have been several attempts to push biometric tracking across europe, but we've stopped them for now. you're regulating cryptocurrencies more and more, and people are demanding freedom. the crown of it all is the digital green certificate, which is still in effect and which is a tool of social control and violation of constitutional fundamental rights. you really want our support for the digital euro after all? after you showed me what you're all set for? the commissioner here says that the digital euro will be safe and i don't know what else it won't be. of course, it always starts with a nice story, but i don't believe that. i have seen too many citizens who have been deprived of their liberties because of the hidden intentions and untruths coming from the commission.
mr president, colleagues, fellow citizens, the digital euro, the digital identity, the digital health data available to the pharmaceutical mafia will lead to and will have the effect of abolishing the free man much sooner than any of us expected. when a new, so-called pandemic hits soon, those who don't show up for their scheduled spending deadline at the same time with one click will have their digital identity, access to money, access to health care taken away. it'll be blocked with a click. last year's decisions by the governments of canada and new zealand are perfect examples of how such a dark scenario is indeed possible in the heart of the european union. are we going to let him? i certainly won't.
dear chairman, my fellow citizens, it's been almost eight years since the dieselgate scandal. on the other hand, now the international council for clean transportation says that about 77 percent of eu diesel cars produce emissions that indicate the presence of emissions cheaters in cars and have, under the guise of that, dubious results. we know, however, that in the twelfth month of 2020, the court of justice of the european union declared such devices in vehicles illegal. and those two facts, you know, need to be taken very, very, very seriously. so if we add two plus two and add the most important item, which is, of course, the health of the citizens, not the profit motive of the automobile industry, then it is clear, mr commissioner schmit, what needs to be done. i therefore expect very rigorous and meticulous checks on all newly manufactured cars to make sure they are produced in accordance with the standards that have been set. we can't change the past, but we can influence the future, and that's why i believe we want to know today how to control and regulate all cars so that, god forbid, we don't have another "electrician" happening to us.
on behalf of the ppe club. madam president, after the world faced a large-scale pandemic three years ago, global health has become an even greater priority for the european union. the eu has a huge opportunity today to play an important role in addressing the current health management gaps at the global level. for this reason, i welcome the adoption of the eu global health strategy and its three priorities: ensuring better health and well-being for people throughout their lives; strengthening health systems by promoting universal health coverage and strengthening primary health care; and preventing and tackling health threats through a 'one health' approach. first, we need to work to eliminate the underlying economic, social and environmental causes of poor health. furthermore, we need to ensure equitable access to all basic health services, from health promotion and disease prevention to affordable, quality treatment, rehabilitation and the fight against communicable and non-communicable diseases, which remain a major public health problem in many countries. in addition, we must work, and this is particularly important, to address the shortage of health workers, which is a problem in many countries of the european union, and the skills shortage in many parts of the world. finally, it is up to us to strengthen the capacity for prevention, preparedness and response and early detection of health threats globally. to achieve this, it is necessary to broaden the union's strategic partnerships in the field of health and to reshape cooperation with different stakeholders in line with mutual interest and strategic priorities, with a further strengthening of the role of the world health organisation. the strategy identifies digitisation as one of the key prerequisites for better global health. building on its ground-breaking work in the context of health data regulation, the eu can harness the potential of health data worldwide in line with the principles of the planned european health data area. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to amend this regulation by updating the list of countries whose healthcare systems are affected by the implementation of this regulation. to conclude, this strategy focuses on key priorities, strengthening health systems, universal health coverage, primary health care, public health, health determinants, and addressing the imbalance in the workforce. and for those very reasons, i think we should support her.
mr president, commissioner, 2022 has once again proved the ipcc right: we are going backwards. it is high time that we realised the urgent need for action and that we acted concretely, without delay, without hesitation. it is high time to take stock of the immense danger to the loss of our biodiversity that the climate issue carries with it. it is high time we understood that the droughts we are experiencing are not temporary. it is high time we realised that the forest fires we have suffered in france and elsewhere on our continent - and that we are suffering this year from april onwards - are not straw fires. it is high time to take stock of the danger posed by the alteration of our water cycle, the threats to food production that are growing every day, and the risks to human health. i want to repeat here that we must act, and act quickly. all our public policies must be reoriented in the face of this very real threat and all must contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. it is up to us politicians, through our responsible choices, to reverse this suicidal trend. and some people in this congregation need to stop running away from their responsibilities. the green deal is not just another objective. it must be our lighthouse in the storm, our horizon, our top priority. it's about our survival, all of us.
mr. chairman, it is clear that when we talk about climate change, the situation is bad and we are going to get worse. and the only real question is whether we can prevent a disaster. i'm afraid that all the crises that we've had so far have been small or minor compared to what's coming, and that's primarily because of our behavior. so let's help ourselves, let's help nature, but let's also help our children because the fight against climate change must be a priority not just for the member states, not just for the european union, but for the whole world. i guess we're all still so sane together, i'd say, that we can reach a consensus on this topic. because everything we've done so far, all the activities, all the legislation, all the funding is clearly not enough. it takes more, and it takes a lot more. it needs more money, it needs more activity, it needs more action, it needs more different behavior. let's take this very seriously and let's all be happy together!
member of the commission. – mr president, dear members, well, i fully understand that this very important debate has extended to some special historical issues for which i have full understanding, the consequences of colonial occupation and all these aspects. we all know the debate around the restitution of aegina’s marbles, the african, but also in other regions where cultural goods were taken away and should be given back. but this is not this is not the object of this action plan. it cannot address this topic of restitution of cultural goods. this is something which has to be settled between states, and hopefully states do that. i think this is also part of values, which should be european values in a way, but it is exclusive competence of the eu member states. now, looting of cultural heritage and trafficking of cultural properties will present a major security concern because this is now, today the issue. it is a way to fund criminal or terrorist activities. we have seen that during the situation in syria, the war in syria and iraq, and it is often linked with money laundering. the low risk of detection, the potential for high margins and the attractive size of the licit and illicit markets play against that. the increasing global demand from collectors, investors and museums makes the fight against trafficking more difficult. i think here we have really to act. it is not normal that museums close their eyes when they buy cultural goods they at least do not know the origin of, or do not want to know the origin of, and this is the issue, i think. so fighting trafficking of cultural property fosters internal and external security. it also helps the stabilisation process in conflicts and crises, as illicit trafficking can be used as a political tool to weaken communities and identities. with the action plan, the commission commits to carry out a series of actions to improve traceability and cooperation with the art market and partner countries. member states have an important part to take in this mission through the police, customs, border guards, ministries of culture, financial intelligence, intelligence units and the judiciary. the commission welcomes the endorsement of this action plan by parliament and all your support for the implementation phase. i, at the end, want to insist, and some of you have mentioned it, what happens in ukraine is another example of criminal action against the cultural goods of a nation.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the explanations of vote.
mr. chairman, thank you. i'm here to explain why i voted against the regulation on information accompanying transfers of funds and certain crypto assets. in particular, in four months' time, the european parliament plans to start implementing the digital euro and the digital identity. all transactions will be monitored and recorded and potentially punishable. it is important to mention that crypto-payments in this regulation will be reported to the financial intelligence unit for amounts above eur 1000. sure, why do you do that? always under the guise of fighting terrorism and money laundering. however, that is not the case here. why would you do that? because paragraph 18 (b) of this regulation clearly states that it does not cover personal transfers of crypto assets between two private individuals. so one person of bad faith can transfer funds to another person of bad faith to be used for bribes, weapons, narcotics. you're not interested in counterterrorism and money laundering, but you're interested in what citizens are buying in stores. so, you're not making any sense. there is no other objective here than the control of the assets and transactions of ordinary citizens and i voted against it.
mr president, minister roswall, vice—president šefčovič, dear colleagues, the reform of the eu fiscal rules is not really about reducing public debt, implementing structural reforms or spurring strategic investment. the reform of the fiscal rules is about building trust – trust between dutch and spaniards, between germans and italians, polish and french, because trust is what constitutes the pillars of the union. during the financial crisis, we finally understood that the eu economic governance framework was not up to the challenge. but after the reforms undergone during the 2010s, we still don’t have a set of fiscal rules that countries respect and follow. now we have the opportunity to create a framework that builds solid and enduring trust between european partners, ensures the sustainability of our public finances and enables the european union to properly respond to our future challenges. we can achieve these three things by increasing national ownership of the fiscal plans while also reinforcing national responsibility. it is the balance between flexibility and responsibility that builds trust. and to paraphrase jean monnet on today’s europe day, that trust will bring together both cooperation between member states and the union between its peoples.
mr. president, a deal is a deal. in the late 1990s, the member states established the rules for sound public finances under the stability and growth pact. the european commission now wants to relax these rules. it wants more climate spending, more flexible debt repayment and to abolish penalties for infringements. the german finance minister, christian lindner, threw a bombshell at the proposal and he is absolutely right. the dutch government should support him in this, but minister kaag is hiding and even called the statements of her german colleague "worrying". president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the common organization of the market in bananas. the dutch know what it takes to meet the strict conditions of the european budgetary rules. and now the commissioner is going to tell the dutch that the rules of the game are changing, that all our reforms and cuts could have been a little smoother? the proposed rules punish the ant and reward the cricket. how long will the coalition parties vvd and cda accept this? a dutch government must never agree to this!
mr president, some countries, in budget policy, even under current complicated rules, are doing well; some are not. without any doubt, their people will pay the price because the consolidation of excessive debt is expensive. fiscal rules can easily spill over and can affect the economy of all the eu. so, as a consequence, we should avoid countries getting into fiscal crisis. the commission proposal is overdue but, we should say, better late than never. by chance, it is consistent with the epp view that was expressed in the report that was approved by a big majority of the plenary. the expenditure rule is more straightforward and it provides guidance even in the short run. and this is very, very important. i guess we should put this proposal quickly into life without creating loopholes by unnecessary exemptions. the priority expenditures of the governments must be financed first and not last, and we should consider if some eu priorities should not be financed directly through the eu budget. this house has clearly agreed that we should not leave the climate debt to be paid by our kids. the same must be true for the debt created or expressed by money through bad fiscal policy because this is how responsible politics should work.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, madam president-in-office of the council, some of the problems of the current tax rules have already been reviewed in these minutes of debate, and i think there is a certain consensus in recognising that, in view of these problems, we need new rules, although, of course, the debate on the new rules is still pending for the next few months. however, there is a problem with the current rules which the commission's proposal does not solve and which i think needs to be mentioned at the seat of the european parliament, at the seat of european sovereignty, and that is that the current rules and possibly future ones are designed to be applied in each of the states without a reflection on the overall effect of fiscal policy - as i say - on the whole of the economy of the european union and mainly on the euro area. we have one monetary policy and in the euro area we have nineteen different fiscal policies. and these national tax policies will continue to differ with future rules. and we need to internalize the effect of all national policies and get the euro area to have a consolidated fiscal policy in line with the cycle.
mr president, colleagues, for the longest time, europe stood for one word: ‘austerity’. and as we will have chancellor scholz here later with us this morning, i truly have to say that i hope that we don’t return to the fetish of the ‘schwarze null’. the fact that the council has scratched out social investments and has put defence instead – i think that is extremely worrying. colleagues, when in the past our alarms went off because of debt creation, we now need a real social golden rule. to go back to austerity politics in the middle of a cost of living crisis – that is a social bomb. it will drive people straight into the arms of the extreme right. we have to make a choice here: if member states are unwilling to create the needed eu funding for social and green investments, well then the national budgets need to be able to fill the gap.
president, commissioner, the eu has had the sgp since 1997. these are budgetary rules designed to ensure that eu countries do not spend too much money and do not take on too much debt. that's what's important. the household book must be in order. too many member states are spending too much money and taking on too much debt. and too much is never good. new rules, as the commission is now proposing, will not, i fear, change that. there will always be situations that tempt politicians to borrow more and spend more. moreover, this irresponsible behaviour of officials and politicians remains without any consequences. the eu imposes laws and rules on banks and companies, but the eu itself has no rules. the stability and growth pact, as the sgp is called in full, is thus a paper tiger. the only way to deal with the debt: hold the responsible government leaders personally accountable. practice what you preach.
mr. president, after the turbulent times we've been through, we must return to normal. but normalcy doesn't mean just going back to the world of yesterday, as stefan zweig would say, it means learning from the lessons of history and correcting what has not worked. the new fiscal framework maintains the limits set in maastricht, and that is how it should be, but it introduces three new features. the first is to establish individual tax routes for each country taking account of its financial situation. the second is to pay more attention to growth. and third, stick to the medium term much more than the short term. but flexibility does not mean discretion or arbitrariness. flexibility requires firm political commitment, great responsibility and the maintenance of sanctions, such as the allocation of the structural funds. my country, spain, entered the pandemic in a complicated situation. there was a playwright who spoke of the holy fear of the deficit. that's been lost and our public debt and our deficit have skyrocketed. adjustments need to be made to expenditure rather than revenue in order not to undermine growth.
mr president, dear commissioner, dear minister, we have to avoid making the same mistakes as in the past. austerity, an old-school, outdated, neoliberal narrative on economic governance is not what we need. the current proposed reform will not provide the necessary leeway for increasing public investment and enhancing social policies. we need an exclusion of the investment in social protection systems from the deficit calculation, because we need to learn the lessons from the past and re-establish the positive link between public expenditure and economic growth as a way to regain economic sovereignty and fiscal sustainability, while preparing the future for the next generations. ensuring social convergence and quality job creation is the eu’s top political priority.
mr president, we have to improve our policy on three major issues. first, we have to put an end to the continuous increase in public expenditure in absolute numbers and as a percentage of the gdp. the growth in public debt has been spectacular: higher debt unavoidably leads to higher tax burden. second, we have to improve the quality of public expenditure in favour of investment. certain european governments prefer to spend money in a way as to promote their electoral strategy rather than serve the real needs of the economy. third, we need more european discipline and coordination. investment projects at the national level should be better connected with a broader european effort to compete with the usa and china.
mr president, an anti-people multi-tool is being used against the people by any government the next day in greece. the stability and recovery pact is reintroduced in conjunction with the recovery facility and the so-called 'green and digital transition'. for example, in greece, whether with nd or with syriza in government, primary surpluses are provided for with prerequisite anti-people reforms or mechanisms. for the slightest permanent benefit to the people, they should be compensated by an equivalent increase in taxation from the menu of the "wild" green taxes of the fit for 55 package that they all voted for here in the european parliament, that is, by increases in fuel, building upgrades, even more stringent air and sea fares or by cuts in government spending. all the savings that the people will pay from their dissolved wages will feed the repayments of the recovery means, the pact that the big groups are hatching, and will reward the so-called "war economy" of the imperialist slaughterhouse in ukraine. in the face of the new corset that any given anti-people government will put on the people, the people can only confront them with a much stronger communist party.
the debt mountain in europe has been far too high for far too long, and for years the commission has ignored it. we really need to do something about that now. why would you do that? it is not possible that the dutch taxpayer will be presented with the bill when other countries are making a mockery of it. and now the time has come for us to do what is necessary to get the budget on track and bring down the national debt. that requires budgetary rules that are realistic, that are enforceable. that requires all countries to abide by the rules we agree with each other. and that requires a european union that acts when those rules are broken. because after all, promise makes guilt.
mr. chairman, colleagues, fellow citizens, today we're talking about financial responsibility. what kind of financial responsibility are we talking about when von der leyen, on behalf of 450 million people in the european union, ordered non-existent vaccines for 70 billion euros? we here in the european parliament closed the doors of 2020 in march. what i said then also led to the economic destruction of part of the economy. this economic, completely unnecessary destruction, we are trying to cover with the next generation plan, a €1.7 trillion debt plan that will put generations and generations of eu citizens in debt. what will that money be spent on? how is that money distributed? always the ruling corrupt structures give it exclusively to their own sympathizers. most citizens have none of that.
madam chair, today we're talking about a budget discharge. first, in the spring of 2020, you responded to covid with a counterproductive and unscientific lockdown. you destroyed entire economic sectors and caused an unprecedented economic crisis, you invested the budgets of the state, citizens and companies, and then to plug at least some of those holes in the summer of 2020 you put forward the nextgenerationeu plan which is nothing more than a 750 billion euro debt by 2058. then the commission president personally arranged the purchase of 5 billion doses of vaccine, or 11 per capita, worth 70 billion euros. you lied about their safety and effectiveness, which we know from the work of the covi committee and the court of auditors. you knew at least as far back as december 2020 that it wasn't preventing the spread of the disease. that vaccine is now no longer wanted and it must be destroyed. we have a trillion euros in damage from bad corrupt management. all morning, we've been discussing how to plug this financial covid hole, and most of the talk has been about introducing new common taxes, in addition to the one we have on plastic. and after you've handled the budget money so conscientiously and professionally, you have the courage to ask for a discharge for the 2021 budget, so that we can confirm with our votes that everything was fine. it wasn't right, and you're not gonna get that discharge from me. i'll vote against all the points.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, i too, on behalf of the left group, would like to express our sympathy and solidarity with the serbian people who have just been struck by two horrific shootings on 3 and 5 may, which killed 17 people, including eight children. and we stand with the tens of thousands of serbs who have risen up against this murderous madness, against the permissiveness of gun ownership, and against all those, including political leaders, who have participated in a climate of violence. like us, the serbian people aspire to peace, to democracy and i believe that this is the meaning of the sincere and positive dialogue that the european union must have with a country that has been a candidate for accession since 2012 and that has shown on at least half of the negotiating chapters that it had made undeniable progress. so, is that enough? obviously not. serbia needs to act to expand its media space, to trust civil society more, and of course to continue its policy of appeasement towards bosnia. and also that it finds a lasting solution with kosovo. but still, i would like to say that sometimes i have the impression that serbia is treated very differently from other balkan countries. and i regret that "double standards" on the pretext that serbia is not fully aligned with our foreign policy, it should be treated harshly. i don't agree with that. i think it would make no sense to open up to the balkans without taking serbia into account. and i believe that this is an attitude which in reality leads to exactly the opposite of the intended purpose, that is to say, it serves neither the interests of serbia nor those of the european union. so let us be consistent and continue to reach out to serbia, which has so much to look forward to from us.
madam president, please. we watched in shock the news from belgrade last week. we thought it unthinkable that such a tragedy could happen near us. my condolences to the innocent children, the families of the victims. serbia is the main stabilising force and key country in the region and its early accession is therefore in europe's interest. the country has been waiting for years for progress in the accession process, and is seeking to meet the eu's conditions. that is why it is incomprehensible that the unusually provocative and critical report on serbia, which attacks hungary without any foundation, is already a testimony to hungarophobia. ideologically based criticisms can fundamentally undermine serbia's integration prospects and confidence in the eu institutions. the european parliament is destroying its relations with serbia instead of constructive cooperation. the accession negotiations need to be accelerated rather than exacerbating geopolitical tensions. just when the stability of the region has been particularly valued because of the russian-ukrainian war, the energy crisis and the migratory pressure.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i was able to visit serbia about ten days ago, i was able to visit belgrade, and i experienced a lot of hospitality, good conversations. i was able to visit the largest orthodox church in the world, which is the largest because, unfortunately, the hagia sophia cannot be used as a church at the moment. but we will not be provoked by the erdoğan regime. i have seen what i always say: serbia can be the germany of the western balkans in the sense of the economic engine, the economic engine, the economic engine of the region. this is the perspective that must be created for serbia. it's good that now domestic issues are being addressed, like gun ownership. it was good that we remembered the victims of the recent attacks here in the european parliament. i mourn with the families of these victims. these are real domestic problems. we are helping serbia to move away from worrying about its southern neighbour and fighting sham battles, and to tackle the real problems of living as a good neighbour. that would be a european perspective.
dear chairman, first of all, my deepest sympathy to the families who lost their loved ones in last week's armed attacks. the tragic events are a reminder of serbia's chronic problems, one man's personal rule, occupation of the state and its institutions, glorification of war criminals and a toxic media scene. key democratic indicators confirm that serbia is stagnating, stagnating on the european path. the continued financial support to the regime of aleksandar vučić through investment projects does not bring serbia closer to the european union nor does it distance it from putin's russia. the obvious tactics of externalizing internal problems, the unfinished serbian transition and exporting conflicts to the neighborhood should cease to surprise. the much-awaited progress in the dialogue with kosovo, which is not in practice, must not be an alibi for the absence of a more effective eu policy towards the serbian authorities. but full support for citizens who clearly want a different, better, european serbia, a serbia without violence. they prove that there is a capacity for change. without them, the permanent crisis will continue with negative impacts on the entire region, and the epp, of which vucic's party is a part, has a special responsibility for communicating european values to official belgrade.
mr president, commissioner, today, on europe day, when 73 years ago the story of progress and peace building on the european continent began, i call on the serbian authorities, if they really want change, to turn to building a new serbia, a serbia which, to paraphrase robert schuman, will not be created all at once or according to a single plan, but will be created through concrete achievements that will first create genuine solidarity. the silence, honourable members, which echoed in the streets of serbia yesterday has, of course, reached brussels and strasbourg. and the message of serbia without violence was sent peacefully and in solidarity, and it means only one thing. the people of serbia want change. for years, we have been repeating what the union is asking of serbia, from strengthening institutions, to fighting corruption, to independent media. however, the real question today is what serbia wants from the union and whether it wants the union and all its fundamental values at all. therefore, dear representatives of the serbian authorities, go out into the streets and listen first to the demands of your own people, and only then come here to sit down and talk about the future, the one that the people will define, about concrete demands and issues that will open the way for the creation of a new serbia, a european serbia. and this new serbia, sheltered on the wings of democracy and the rule of law, if it so wishes, will of course have its place in a united europe.
the fate of the missing and forcibly removed persons is still the most difficult issue related to the serbian aggression against the republic of croatia. unfortunately, the fate of 1,418 people and the burial site of 394 dead people from the civil war are still unknown. the serbian authorities have so far not shown enough sincere commitment to solving the issue of missing persons from the homeland war, and the issue of finding missing persons, the issue of respecting the fundamental european values that we often talk about here. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the unoda and the unoda-led unoda joint action on the prevention of and combating the illicit trade in human substances. on the other hand, although the appointment of minority representatives in the serbian government is a step in the right direction, serbia still does not guarantee the croatian minority the same rights as the serbian minority enjoys in croatia, which is unacceptable. finally, it is good that this report sends a strong message to serbia that their attempts to assign universal jurisdiction to alleged war crimes with serbian courts are absolutely unacceptable. in conclusion, i would like to point out that without resolving all the outstanding issues, and especially the issue of missing persons, serbia has no place in the european union.
madam president, different political interests have always been intertwined in the area of south-east europe. in such circumstances, a clear perspective of kosovo as an internationally recognised and integrated state is crucial for maintaining stability in the region. i therefore welcome this report, as it calls on those member states which have not done so to recognise kosovo without delay. unfortunately, we still do not see a real readiness on the serbian side to find a lasting solution to the problem, but only games, procrastination and obstruction at all levels. therefore any attempt by belgrade to create some sort of serb state within the state must be prevented. i have to say this in closing. the idea that some kind of geopolitical compensation to vucic, for example related to montenegro, can achieve the cooperation of the serbian side, is doomed to failure. i hope that the european union has learned something from the failed policies of the past and will stop serbian hegemony in time before it gets completely out of control.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. mr president, the anti-civilizing russian aggression against ukraine has helped europe to understand that the question of security, the question of defence, cannot be taken for granted or left to chance. the ukrainian resistance helped europe to understand that today the fight for western civilization is not only in words, but above all in deeds. in such a context, the promotion of joint procurement should strengthen the european defence industry, reduce competition between member states, prevent fragmentation of the defence sector and improve coordination and cooperation. on the budgetary side, the funds will certainly have to be more significant in the future, but it is crucial that we have achieved the foundation for a wider european strengthening of our defence industry. the multiannual financial framework is almost exhausted. we therefore call once again for a serious review, for consideration of concrete proposals and for further strengthening of the european budgetary mechanisms that we need in an increasingly dangerous world.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are of course in many respects really behind this agreement, especially the raising of the target. only goals can be raised quickly, the implementation, that is now the difficult task. that is why we really agree on one point: we must accelerate the deployment of renewable energy. for repowering six months, for new wind turbines one year. that must be the aim, without giving any environmental guidelines here, but we must simplify and summarize the procedures. i think that would be a big step forward. it cannot be that we need wind power in some areas for five years before they are approved. that's got to be in the past. for solar panels, three months on buildings, that's a big step forward. what we do not welcome, of course, is what has come out in the end on the subject of biomass, especially on the subject of wood. i think, mr. pieper, that wood does grow, but we also have to face the fact that wood is not infinite. 70% of the wood in the european union is already being burned. we can't keep this. we cannot accept that coal-fired power stations which were used yesterday will be used tomorrow. this is the wrong way. we're gonna have to do this another way. we really need to go solar and wind instead of burning more wood. in germany, 600,000 hectares of forest have already been lost, damaged by climate change. and we have to look to the future, where we have to do with less wood. and we must make better use of it, we must not waste it.
mr. chairman, the idea of renewable energy as a potential that can meet all of humanity's needs is ridiculous, ridiculous, insane and full of lies. germany has invaded, at least large parts of germany, and completely destroyed the landscape of germany with wind power, so it looks like we've been invaded by aliens. and how much electricity is that enough? not at all. they shut down their nuclear power plants and import 30% of the electricity from french nuclear power plants and shout: "we are green". well, that's hilarious. one electric car that catches fire needs to be extinguished with 17,000 liters of water that carry several kilograms of extremely harmful metals into our country.
on behalf of the ppe club. mr president, since the beginning of the covid-19 crisis, as many as 6 out of 10 consumers have encountered financial difficulties. in such circumstances, we need strong mechanisms to protect citizens from over-indebtedness, and the rules in place so far do not provide sufficient consumer security in this respect. that's why i'm proud that tomorrow we'll finally be voting on the consumer credit directive. the new rules will no longer allow banks to send unsolicited credit cards to home addresses or to unilaterally increase the limits of permissible and silent overdrafts for consumers. the new law also means that banks will not be able to demand the reimbursement of silent overdrafts from citizens without prior notice and without the possibility of repayment in instalments. in particular, banks will have to inform citizens in advance of any planned reduction or abolition of the silent partnership and leave them with the option of a repayment in 12 equal instalments, and member states may also introduce stricter consumer protection rules. this is certainly an improvement, since a study commissioned by the european parliament on my proposal showed that over 340 million bank accounts of citizens in the european union are burdened by so-called negative problems and that overdrafts are one of the most expensive forms of indebtedness of citizens. in addition, it is important that consumers will continue to have a period of 14 days in which they can withdraw from the credit agreement without giving any reasons. finally, it is important to note that this is the first legislative act to codify at european level the right to be forgotten and protection against discrimination for citizens who have survived cancer. all in all, this directive is indeed a step in the right direction for consumers and i therefore call on you to support it.
hon. chairman, a pro-serbian and pro-soviet government has been formed in montenegro. a serbian nationalist who openly supports russia has been elected speaker of the assembly, his party is part of the parliamentary majority. the result is a series of events that began with the lights organized by the serbian orthodox church by aleksandar vucic with the aim of returning montenegro to the serbian and russian sphere of interest. unfortunately, after three years, we can say that they have largely achieved their goals. the last act in the de facto abolition of the montenegrin nation and the transformation of this country into another russian governorate is the census. under altered geopolitical circumstances, the nation-state without a national emblem would thus become a hybrid creation in which a russian-serbian axis would build belarus in small. it is therefore essential that the european union supports further postponement of the census and closely follows the steps taken by the new government, in particular by president milatović, in their approach to european integration. ladies and gentlemen, the transformation of montenegro into little belarus on the mediterranean coast is the result of a disastrous policy of the european union and i call on you to change it before it's too late. we're stopping serbia from destabilizing montenegro and all of southeast europe.
in the name of the left faction. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a second opinion on the matter. the eu's trade dispute with the united states has been going on for days. the recent eu-us summit failed to bridge the substantial differences. the dispute over protective duties on aluminium and steel is not in agreement. the commission has not yet concluded the leyen convention on critical raw materials, which is so important to the commission president. let us be honest, especially because of differences in environmental standards and workers' and women's rights. so what's left of this summit? the final declaration underlines the role of the trade and technology council as a key forum for economic cooperation and is upgraded to the basic negotiating framework. what's that supposed to mean? where is the parliamentary control we are struggling to achieve? the two blocks also want to set rules for tomorrow's technologies. the commission has also proposed a new framework for the implementation of the european community's internal market. but that's a worrying thing in a rapidly changing multipolar world.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. the summit was not a success in the area of trade policy: we have no agreement on steel and aluminium, we have no agreement on raw materials. that's because the us is absolutely putting its interests first. this must be seen as sober as the inflation reduction act. but i think that given the geopolitical situation we have no interest in escalating, in other words imposing new tariffs or taking other measures. i think that is why we need to achieve three things. firstly, we must ensure that future agreements do not violate wto rules. we are still in the multilateral system. secondly, we will not be able to abandon the eu's fundamental positions in our negotiations with the united states. i think that's clear as well. and thirdly, so it's about securing the status quo and seeing how we get together over time -- so not to develop absolutely new ambitions, but to organize stability.
mr president, i commend the timing, scope and importance of what i consider to be the most important bound partnership of the world. it is necessary to align our foreign policies in times of challenge, in times of multiple threats. and here there are really many details still to discuss. let me turn your attention to one thing, in particular linked to the war waged by the russian federation on ukraine and our necessity to focus our attention on this, despite all the other challenges that we have to focus on as well. we need a kind of agriculture ramstein to help ukraine finance war and defence of the country. and it is not enough to absorb shocks, market shocks, just by the european union. we need a much broader approach, also to support ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, in the founding of nato, british officer montgomery and i said that the idea of nato was to keep the germans on their knees, the russians out of europe, and the americans inside. the same logic applies to all other organizations founded at that time, such as the council of europe or the european economic community, which outnumber the eu. the situation is the same today, 70 years later. the political, economic and military influence of the united states in europe is enormous. the united states and the eu, unfortunately, are not partners, but are a binding relationship. this was demonstrated when the us intelligence services intercepted the leaders of sweden, norway, france and germany, including chancellor angela merkel, and she was not allowed to protest or write - as if nothing had happened; it was when the us navy destroyed the north stream, and the german government dared not protest or ask for an investigation or explanation. critical infrastructure, as it's called here, and the most powerful eu countries, has been destroyed, and it's pretending to have nothing to do with it, as if nothing happened. no lawsuits, no investigations, no diplomacy, not even criticism - so they wouldn't get angry overseas. this continent must be free from the influence of the powerful washingtonese projected through brussels and decide for itself on the principle of the cooperation of sovereign states. if that doesn't happen, he'll die like a pawn on a geopolitical chessboard.
madam president, i am not going to say anything. hypocrisy is at its core when you, in this chamber, boast of your strong efforts against the russian occupation of ukraine. let us remember the prehistory; after russia took crimea, who wanted to sell aircraft carriers to putin? france did. president macron. who wanted more russian gas and decommission their own nuclear power? germany did. chancellor merkel. what is it? there is nothing to show that the eu is good at handling foreign policy. and the sanctions we voted on today only expose the hypocrisy because we have refused to take the blame for the russian economy, which has hurt us. we're still importing russian gas. we have many sanctions gaps, and that is why we see that the russian economy is still operating here two years after the war began, because the eu is not willing to take the stand, because it likes to speak big words and airy principles. but when it comes down to it, we are left with the wrong foreign policy and a toothless approach. this is what we can expect when we give the eu power in the external field.
hon. chairman, i vote against another sanctions resolution, sanctions have failed, we're only destroying ourselves and no one else. it reminds me of the prohibition era when alcohol was banned in the us, and yet everyone drank it; so we can read: russian lng imports have increased by 40% since the invasion of ukraine. and thus spain and belgium became the second and third countries to import this gas, right after china. all your honor, europe, you're smoking at china's throat, as much as you sanction. of course, that gas hasn't stayed in those countries, but it's going everywhere and it's actually being bought by everyone. what's changed from two years ago is the accounting industry. energy is coming in more or less, as it used to be, but now it's much more expensive and it's going through third countries, so huge amounts of oil are imported through india. russian oil, of course. belgium - they didn't have enough 11 rounds of sanctions to give up russian diamonds, so i guess they won't have 12. so everyone in europe is looking at themselves. only the croatian government is not doing anything for its own citizens that destroys inflation, but is subservient to brussels.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of personal data and the protection of personal data is based on the principle of proportionality. by introducing the legislative report right to correction, we are one step closer to making correction more accessible to consumers. the commission therefore considers that the commission should be able to determine whether the measures in question are compatible with the internal market. i have made a particular case for the consumer to be offered a replacement product during the repair period of the product within the warranty period. the commission therefore concludes that the commission has not yet established a reasonable expectation that the commission will be able to recover the costs of the repair of the product concerned. on that note, i'm pleased to be part of this report and my amendment that will oblige manufacturers to provide a replacement product to consumers during the repair period if the repair cannot be done within the short term. and it's also important to encourage the right to repair, which is why i'm particularly supportive of the idea of vouchers that make repair more affordable. colleagues, the model of buying, using and discarding a product is no longer sustainable. i therefore support the adoption of this report and hope for a swift agreement with the member states to make the right to amendment a new standard of european legislation.
just before i give the floor to the next speaker i would like to announce that we have nine people for the catch-the-eye already. i will take them all, but i will close the list now for the catch-the-eye.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, there is no denying the need to reduce overpackaging. this requires intervention on production and marketing with a view to limiting the use of products which are of no use and to effectively reduce the production and use of disposable and useless products. we reject a logic whereby the responsibility and costs of options are transferred to the final consumer which the industry does not want to counteract. better and more appropriate management of urban waste is through public sector management, which implies reversing privatisation processes and restoring public control throughout the sector. in this respect, it is important to consider the diversity of starting points in the member states, which involve different efforts to achieve the objectives set. the targets set and the intensity of implementation should therefore be appropriate for each member state, ensuring the necessary time flexibility to ensure the achievability of the country-by-country targets and strengthening the means available to member states, particularly those with lower collection and recycling levels, to promote the investment required for training and infrastructure for this purpose.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, free water in restaurants, the possibility of reusing food containers, the stop to packaging waste for one apple: here are some examples of the benefits for the environment and for citizens. recycling won't go away, but recycling alone isn't enough. we need to get to the source. to reduce the huge amount of waste, reuse is also needed. only 17% of plastic waste recycled in italy. other than excellence! i would like to ask lobbyists who are pushing for the limits of decency to focus on the opportunities that will open up, new jobs, new chains. we do not negotiate a minimum of mandatory reuse, where we are a paper and glass excellence, and at the expense of sustainable chains it is to accommodate the plastic lobbies. the five-star meps are concerned about the national interest, yes, but our interest is the interest of all. and if we have to choose, we choose the sick people, we choose the mothers of the pfas, we think of them!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not going to be able to do this. we must fight the plastic flood, we must fight the waste flood, and therefore we need a regulation, also to create a single market for the circular economy, and the member states which have so far little recycling must do much more. but i think the european commission has gone far beyond the target. this proposal still breathes the spirit of vice president timmerman, even though he is no longer here. let me give you two examples. first, the online trade. yeah, we have a lot of unnecessary packaging, a lot of plastic. but the proposal treats paper as plastic. i know companies that are switching from plastic to paper right now. shouldn't we support them? the second point is much more annoying to me: the commission proposal prohibits small pieces of paper for sugar, salt, pepper and sugar. i was drinking coffee this morning and i found these tubes here in strasbourg in the european parliament. we cannot seriously prohibit the general public from doing something we use ourselves. and we can't really deal with paper towels at a time when we have so many problems. i'm confident that we'll vote this nonsense out tomorrow, and it'll be a good text. let us accept the amendments.
the commissioner, mr president, and my colleagues, it is very important that the growing amount of packaging waste in europe is contained. practical solutions are needed and separation of resources must be improved. it is a good thing that we have made significant improvements to the commission's proposal. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection is also concerned about the need to ensure that the environment is a safe place for the environment. today's recycling problems are largely related to the use of plastic. i cannot accept that the eu is now punishing fibre-based materials that are recycled and that we get valuable raw materials from recycling. no one is against reuse, but recycling must be an equal alternative to reuse. the finnish bottle return system is a great example of this for the whole of europe. at worst, because of strict requirements and the prohibition of packaging, the environmental benefits are not achieved and the amount of food waste is increased. the balance of objectives and environmental impact has not been properly considered.
mr president, i want to speak to you. why are we even discussing a new law on packaging and its waste, even though a directive was issued five years ago? the answer is simple: the quantity of packaging in the eu is constantly increasing. our packaging waste has reached a record high. the commission has therefore decided to review the proposal. it is now our responsibility to find a solution that is good for man and nature. in particular, we need ambitious targets for prevention and reuse to stop packaging waste. unfortunately, there has been a lot of lobbying against this, but more reuse before recycling is crucial to reduce packaging quantities, reduce co2 and other emissions, and stop the destruction of our natural resources, biodiversity loss and pollution. the waste collection in europe must finally be consistently tackled recycling alone is not enough. the law we are voting on is better than the status quo, but still far too weak. we have a crucial task ahead of us: we must continue to fight for a sustainable, efficient and environmentally friendly packaging economy in europe.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. each of us produces about 177 kilograms of packaging a year. that means for my small household with my wife and two kids, we produce over 700 kilograms of packaging. that's about the size of a grown horse, so it's living in my kitchen. everyone here agrees that we need to reduce that. everyone agrees that we must also recognize packaging as a raw material that we do not burn, that we do not ship to asia, but that we recycle. but as with many things, ambition must remain feasible. the commission's text was too ambitious, as you can hear in the debate. the left side says that's not ambitious, the right side says that's all garbage to use that term , and we say in the middle that we have to make it so that it's feasible afterwards. i've talked to a lot of companies about this specific proposal, and a lot of them told me that it's too little flexible and we need a little more time to create this recycling market and redesign our packaging product and create new packaging models. these companies have a different concern than the packaging problem at the moment, but they will take it with them. but they tell us, make it feasible, make it flexible, because if you stretch an arc too much, it breaks. the amendments for more flexibility are on the table. let us vote for it tomorrow, so that we can agree in the middle that this will be a good text that will reduce this mountain of waste.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the commission's basic approach, which places prevention, the first step in the waste hierarchy, as the main objective of the whole proposal. i think that the commission proposal does, however, have some criticisms about how these objectives should be achieved, particularly in those sectors, such as food, which have very particular characteristics. i remember how the current directives have indicated the need for member states to raise their recycling targets considerably and some countries, like mine, have done so with great intensity and with great investment. the present proposal, however, points to a completely different approach, pushing for mandatory reuse rules which are still not certain to be the best environmental option, particularly for large water use, which is an increasingly valuable commodity. i therefore believe that this point needs to be corrected in order to take into account the efforts already made by the various member states in recycling and to ensure full food safety for european citizens.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, every european generates almost 189 kilograms of packaging waste per year, a figure which is growing steadily. their management is about preserving our planet. in this context, the packaging regulation is a significant step towards reducing waste. the revision of our standards will help to promote innovation in sustainable packaging materials, collection, recycling and reuse of packaging wherever possible. however, the success of these initiatives depends on the active involvement of each citizen and territory. let us ensure that citizens fully take advantage of these new rules. the spirit drinks in our overseas territories represent the excellence and know-how of these territories and deserve special attention in terms of bottle recycling. i am not convinced that this measure is appropriate for our outermost regions. with tomorrow's vote, we can find the right balance between our environmental objectives and the adoption of rules that work for all.
mr. speaker, before the so-called green policies were devised, before we moved almost all production from europe to china, vietnam and other countries, we had a few kilograms of packaging waste per capita. we're almost 200 pounds now. with every new regulation, we become more and more stuffed and stuffed with garbage. the garbage disposal is what you're trying to impose on the citizens as something great. we split up here cardboard, here plastic, here glass, here some third waste... but what is the truth? almost none of that separate garbage is recycled. most plastics in recycling hubs are just waiting to reach their maximum capacity to create some new circuits in them across europe. the plastic sheets that are burning. every one of those fires is visible from mars!
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that in this house we all agree that we want a more effective european union in responding to the many challenges we face. but, as is often the case here, behind shared motives, lies the old federalist project: the commission and the court of justice are the vanguards of a progressive agenda to impose rules and judgments on rebel governments. a plan that wants to make the eu less democratic and more centralistic. a survival in which a few large countries would decide for all the others, in which the commission would be appointed on a political basis, preventing smaller or politically unaligned countries from being represented. a survivor with dozens of new powers to impose rules on brussels that individual countries do not have the power to approve. in the face of this drawing i want to appeal to the friends of the epp: don't be fooled! none of these wizard apprentices want a stronger europe. they want only weaker national states and right-of-center governments with their hands tied. this was not the great dream of the founding fathers, those who had the motto "united in diversity", those who had carved the principle of subsidiarity into the treaties. we must move away from these values and from this project and set aside once and for all the anti-national, and therefore anti-european, utopias of the left.
mr. president, with these amendments to the treaties, you are trying to subtly create from the european union a counter-state, a bureaucratic body that should be more significant and powerful than any member state. you're not gonna get away with this. never will the smaller nations allow you to return to the time of empires, to the middle ages or to the time of austria-hungary because they paid their blood for their independence which you try to steal from them with your vile ridicule and this submission. if big members like germany or france really cared about croatia, then they would try to develop croatia's economy, not use it as a pool of free trained labor. you consciously push the weaker ones economically and politically, but you are unaware that you too are losing. the members of the european union have been stagnating under your boot and steering for the last few decades. and if you compare the union with other world economies that were once below, you'll notice that they outnumber or outnumber us in terms of population, and good population structure, and economic strength, and so on. the union has a future only if the weaker peripheral member states start to develop strongly and thus to distribute their wealth evenly. otherwise, you can start developing your exit strategies and dismantling plan for the union. although, i think the european political establishment has drifted away from reality and this parallel world we are seeing here in parliament has actually shocked me. fortunately, the election is coming and things are going to be redefined.
the european union is facing a series of crises year after year to which european citizens expect a strong, common european response, which is also becoming increasingly difficult to achieve from the budgetary structure. inflationary pressures are making life difficult not only for citizens but also for a number of economic sectors. the catastrophic consequences of natural disasters leave a trail that needs serious remediation. in addition, this annual budget had to address a number of medium- and long-term challenges - security, defence, military mobility, response to migration pressure, support to ukraine, but also humanitarian assistance where it is most needed. all these elements were important to achieve and strengthen with financial means, and europe simply has no luxury not to take the breached security situation seriously and we need to be aware of the importance of investing in security, including border security. i congratulate our rapporteur, congratulate the council and the commission on the constructivity, but at the same time i think we all need to be clear that the long-term single european response will be increasingly difficult without a serious revision of the multiannual financial framework and without reform of the system of own resources.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. some of us here in the house have been supporting countries for many years. since russia's illegal invasion of ukraine, there has been more because many in this house have understood that this is not just about economic cooperation and cultural cooperation, but also about tangible geostrategic interests. in particular, many people realize that the balkans are not a region on the edge of europe, but in the middle of our european union, and that it is in this country that many outside influences take place. we have now taken some steps to encourage the accession of these countries, to finally put our commitment as a european union seriously into the debate and to support the countries. i support this and look forward to welcoming all the countries of the western balkans to the european union sooner or later. but we must take our own criteria seriously, namely the copenhagen criteria, when we are in accession talks, when we are in accession negotiations. we must look at it honestly and not pretend that there are no problems, as if there are no laws in republika srpska that prevent civil society organizations from doing their jobs, journalists from expressing their views openly. we must not hide that in serbia laws have been passed, but the implementation of these laws in detail where it is felt by the people is unfortunately often not as we would like it to be. we must recognize that in some areas there are still serious problems with the rule of law, even though reforms are being carried out. montenegro, albania, we're not where we need to be. and it does not help us if we lie to ourselves or the commission lies to itself and to us and says, 'yes, good progress here, good progress there'. we must ensure that the essential criteria, the essential basic values of freedom of expression, democracy, the rule of law, the copenhagen criteria are respected seriously and seriously. this must and will remain the basis of our accession talks.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the copenhagen criteria are a very good thing, but they are not being met. they are not observed and are not applied as they should be applied. this should mean that communities that can and want to self-determinate in a certain way should be able to do so. in particular, countries wishing to be candidates for membership of the european union. this is the kind of country that, sorry to repeat, north macedonia is. it denies the right of national self-determination. it is suppressed and it is taken away and denied to those people who have macedonian citizenship but with bulgarian national self-confidence. and all the colleagues who work here, you should know that. especially the colleagues from the former yugoslavia and the colleagues from austria. you're working on this. well, you know, there has to be pressure on the government in skopje to make what we all want happen. we all want the republic of north macedonia to start negotiations and join the european union because its place is in the european union. we all know there's pro-kremlin and pro-belgrade propaganda out there and it needs to stop. but your role is to influence this government. your task and role is to put pressure on this government and allow bulgarians to identify as bulgarians so that this country can start negotiating with the european union.
all speakers should take into account that the very good capacities of the interpreters have some limitations and we do not want to introduce like in basketball the effective playing time.
mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, 30 years have passed since we set out our criteria for accession. and after an initial impetus that brought us to the current 27 members, we started recording an enlargement fatigue that need to be left apart. the russian criminal war against ukraine, as well the other war crimes committed in our neighbourhood, most notably by azerbaijan in nagorno-karabakh, are making enlargement a first-class priority. but empty promises are no longer enough: we must push not only for western balkans, moldova, georgia and ukraine, but also for a concrete action plan for the access of armenia. and the first step will be to grant yerevan the candidate status as soon as the official request is made. national political leaders must leave apart the short-sighted will to maximise internal consensus by obstructing the enlargement process, they must embrace a truly strategic vision and move further in the accession process for our future members before they will lose hope, starting from the most aligned to our foreign policy. widening and deepening are two rails of the same track. our european project will never be completed until all the european countries that share our democratic values are part of the family. let us move towards this direction now.
mr president, a few years ago many people thought that brexit would produce a terrible domino effect, capable of jeopardizing the very existence of the european union. the reality today is very different. no member state is showing signs of wanting to leave and, on the contrary, we have today ten countries wanting to enter, nine of which already have candidate status. more and more people are realizing that belonging to the european union is an added value. as the rapporteur of this parliament for the enlargement and deepening of the union, i should like to remind you that the copenhagen criteria are accession requirements and that there can be no compromise in respecting european values and the principles of the rule of law. each application will therefore be assessed on its merits in the light of the concrete reforms undertaken. but if the candidate countries have to reform, the european union must also reform itself institutionally and financially to be able to absorb new member states. it is no use to delude the problems, you have to do the homework so that the enlargement can be successful.
mr president, today we are debating a classic dilemma: is enlargement policy a product of geopolitical reasons or a product of copenhagen criteria? the answer is clear. geopolitics always has an edge. this is what happened when my country bulgaria joined the european union. we certainly weren't ready on all the criteria, but the leading base was the criteria. yes, we had to meet the main criteria of copenhagen the stability of institutions, democracy, the rule of law, respect for minority rights, the functioning of the market economy and the willingness to be part of a financial, economic and political union that goes hand in hand with all the other member states, already of the european union. but today we are faced, i think, with a more serious dilemma: whether we want to invest a lot more than just financially, socially and economically to help the countries of the western balkans, plus ukraine, moldova and georgia, into this space that shares common values of the rule of law and democratic standards. and for me the answer must be yes, definitely yes, if we want to be a geopolitical european union.
mr president, i am not going to say anything. fifteen years after the great eastern expansion, we are here again. we are in a situation where a large majority here in the house, the european commission, the president of the council, wants a major enlargement to the east. but has anyone learned from the past? has anyone learned from the chaos that the eastern expansion brought about because they just didn't follow the agreed rules of the game? we've seen a wave of social dumping. we've seen a wave of organized crime. yes, even today, 15 years after our last major enlargement, a number of member states still do not have access to schengen cooperation, they still do not have access to euro cooperation because they are not yet ready. and in the situation where it is being talked about expanding the eu by up to 55 million new inhabitants, all from countries that are even poorer and in an even worse state of the rule of law than poland and hungary, which this house loves to criticize. so when does the hypocrisy stop? the same people in this house who at every plenary session want an attack on the polish government, want an attack on the hungarian government, are now standing up and saying: let's take more of these kinds of governments. it's not hard to see when you look at corruption, when you look at lgbt rights, when you look at all the parameters you usually go up in where these countries are. yet you stand and invite them in with open arms, and i just say: then you must take responsibility for the consequences. (the honourable member agreed to answer a question in the blue card)
blue-card question. – colleague, you mentioned many so to say shortcomings of the new member states. but there are some shortcomings within older member states. you didn’t speak about the lack of democracy in hungary. the group, i mean, which accommodates probably some affiliated from orbán party. you did not mention about opt-outs some countries use to limit their participation within the european union. and finally, you did not speak about the unification of europe. do you still believe that this is a very technical project, as the european union is?
blue card answer. it is a funny thing to bring the danish reservations into the debate, precisely because the danish reservations are given in the treaty, precisely because the danish people voted against the maastricht treaty and therefore denmark had to be given the reservations. we want to keep the reservations, and i actually said in my speech that it is the same individuals here in this house who criticize hungary but want moldova. it's just not connected. the level in hungary is higher.
mr president, i understand the people who want to join the european union, starting with the ukrainian people who are being attacked and we stand in solidarity with them. i understand the sincere colleagues in this house who feel that it is our moral duty to welcome them and that it is also geopolitically necessary. but contrary to the obvious, i ask: are we prepared to take up such a shock? are the economic and political conditions in place? i don't think he did. the political conditions, you mentioned: the countries in question obviously do not meet the criteria of copenhagen. but there is also our own situation: the economic crisis we are facing, the social crisis, the explosion of inequality. and i am not sure that european workers are willing to pay for further enlargement, both because of budgetary transfers and social dumping. i say to you to think about this: europe is a very fragile construction and i am not sure we are ready today to absorb 50 million more people in the european union.
- your honor, the president. if we want a strong europe, our enlargement policies must take into account our geopolitical and security needs. the european union considers enlargement a blackmail or credible tool, or even uses a double standard in membership, namely undermining its own unity and credibility. please, we're not going to do this. countries wishing to join the european union must comply with the conditions laid down in the legislation. of course, but especially the copenhagen criteria. these conditions shall be the same for all countries intending to join, and shall be the same. not only does it undermine confidence but it also undermines the geostrategic interests of the eu member states that the eu has not made significant progress in certain countries in the western balkans for more than 10 years now, while pursuing an accelerated enlargement policy with regard to ukraine. all we ask is that the same rules apply to everyone.
mr president, the unification of our continent on the basis of our common european values is the most important condition for our security and prosperity. the transformative force of the european union must be renewed every day with clear plans and a timeframe for the adoption of the new member states. where we leave a grey area in europe, russia will try to fill it. this was felt on the backs of the ukrainians because of our big mistake of not admitting them to nato at the time. the full integration of these countries into our union is essential as a geostrategic investment in a stable, strong and united europe. integration is of course a two-way street and candidate countries must overcome the problems of the past. achieve historic reconciliation, overcome hate speech and non-discrimination for all citizens, regardless of their self-determination. this is a just and fundamental value of the european union. i mean, nostalgia for communism, tito and the inertia of that period are not part of the copenhagen criteria. and the sooner we realize that this past inertia needs to be overcome in the countries of the former yugoslavia, the better. we want to give a clear signal to the citizens of the countries of the region that they are not forgotten and that we are doing everything we can to help them, but full membership depends on the will and political elites to implement the necessary reforms.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 30 years have passed since the copenhagen criteria for a member state to become a member of the european union. in these 30 years, many things have changed in europe and the world, but one thing has remained the same: the european union has a very important role to play in the development of the european union. the russian aggression against ukraine is also aimed at weakening the enlargement and accession process and would lead some countries, a few steps from our borders, to fall into the hands of authoritarian regimes. i therefore address the western balkans, and serbia in particular, and ask them to continue the accession process in order to ensure the strengthening of the rule of law, solidarity and common growth through a clear and unambiguous path. the union needs a broader budget and sufficient own resources to meet future challenges. but above all, the reform of the treaties is needed to simplify decision-making procedures and to bring europe closer to the needs and, above all, the hopes of european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-presidents of the commission, when someone asks us what kind of europe we want for 25 or 30 years, i am sure everyone would say green, digital and vastly expanded. and while we really have nothing to brag about when it comes to expanding, we've done a lot on these first two questions. and why do we have little to boast about in the last ten years? well, i'd say there's a culprit here and there. when i say that, i mean, of course, the failure to reform countries outside the european union, and when i think that, i mean everything that my own croatia has gone through with slovenia, and what north macedonia is going through with bulgaria. so, always some kind of trouble, not to mention blackmail or blockades. but i'm a happy man today. i am happy because i think we all agree that enlargement policy as one of the fundamental policies of the european union is getting back into focus and that we understand that eu reform and enlargement can and should go hand in hand. thank you for that.
mr president, thirty years after their definition, the copenhagen criteria still set out the key conditions that candidate countries must meet to become members of the european union. after a long phase of expansionary fatigue, the political will to continue this political process seems to have finally emerged. if the eu's neighbours do not offer a clear perspective, they will be completely submerged by foreign powers, which in the long run will be a disaster for europe's security. to understand each other, in the process of enlargement, each state should be looked at individually and judged on merit. no entry into the eu through the line. this must be understood in particular by alexander vucic, for whose rule serbian hegemony became the main threat to the stability of southeastern europe. and the democracy in serbia has taken not one, but three steps backwards. on the other hand, the commission's decision to recommend the opening of accession negotiations for bosnia and herzegovina on a conditional basis is an incentive to continue the reform process in that country, which should certainly be welcomed and supported by bih in its difficult reforms ahead.
on behalf of the greens/efa group. i would say that today is a black day. we lost today. we lost because our text on reducing pesticides, which was to include 50% reduction of pesticides and the prohibition of the most toxic pesticides by 2030, has failed. so this resolution on pollinators is kind of the last chance. pollinator insects are indeed endangered, threatened with extinction. and without them, we'll be with you. so the alarms have been ringing for years. for more than a decade, nature has been sending us ever clearer and clearer signals than ever before, and this scientific consensus is necessary: that of europe's empty landscapes and pollinating insects, while four out of five cultivated species depend on pollinators for reproduction. i'll quote a few numbers anyway. in the last three years, insect populations have fallen by up to 75% and butterfly numbers have fallen by 36% in europe over the last decade. a new analysis, signed in november 2023 by european naturalists, estimates that nearly 2 million species are endangered, including 25% of insects, double previous estimates. figures revealing the extent of the problem. the warning is that if we do not move away from intensive farming, bottled with pesticides and biocides, this text alone will not reduce the disappearance of pollinators in europe. and here today i am very much concerned because the fact that we have lost this legislation, the fact that the members did not want to send it back to the envi committee, so what is our hope? the only hope is that member states should try to have a national policy to make corridors free of pesticides. because contrary to what one colleague said, the decline in pollinators is due to pesticides. so i hope that it is not too late and that we will have the energy, the strength and the conviction at the level of our different governments to really drastically reduce pesticides.
for the left. madam president, commissioner, for several years we have been trying to get the poisoning back into nature here at this institution. but i'm afraid with the atmosphere that prevails here today, we'll fail again. in the meantime, some aggressive invasive species, such as the asian pea, have joined the classical threats of pesticides and diseases. in the last few months, she's even made it into my country. it's clear that if we want to sustain life as we know it today, we can't do without comprehensive protection from pollinators. but it cannot lead only to blindly advocating the further elimination of pesticide use and setting unrealistic targets that further jeopardize our food self-sufficiency. yes, colleagues, i am talking about what happened here today with the regulation on the sustainable use of plant protection products. so long, some of these people have been pushing the bricks with other unrealistic goals, that it's all falling apart. in this way, it is our drunkards who are the innocent victims of this fanaticism that are more likely to be burdened. next time, it would take more moderation and reason.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of animals and plants from the effects of the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused in particular, a recent european commission survey showed that as many as 46% of samples of honey imported into the european union did not meet the criteria of the honey directive. that is why it is important to follow the rules regarding the labelling of honey. in circumstances where the average price of honey imported from third countries is 2.56 euros per kilogram, or 1.6 euros per kilogram for honey imported from china, we need to work further to strengthen the position of our beekeepers and properly label the packaging of honey. in this respect, the consumer must know exactly from which country honey comes when buying it, and if it is a honey mixture, the proportion of honey from which country it comes. so i asked the amendments to impose a requirement to specify the exact percentage of honey on product packaging. colleagues, in order to protect pollinators and european bees, we need the proper implementation of the new pollinator plan and, as soon as possible, agreement on the revision of the honey directive.
i would like to ask the commissioner to do something about this. mr bernhuber would therefore like to know what the commission intends to do in the context of the common agricultural policy to conserve our bees and pollinators. mr bernhuber called on the commission to submit proposals. it is precisely this bernhuber who today led the way in making the commission's proposal to reduce pesticides the main cause of the loss of biodiversity, the main cause of the loss of our bees and pollinators, and this very proposal which the commission has drawn up to reduce pesticides, not only to protect pollinators, but also to destroy our health and our environment. what's this double-crossing? what is this wrong game that the european conservatives are playing? on the one hand, we are going to have to introduce good legislation that is supposed to protect our pollinators, and on the other hand, we are going to be making ourselves up here and pretending to have something left over for nature or natural pollinators. i would say, mr bernhuber, be ashamed of yourself!
- madam president, please. farmers need bees and pollinators, but bees also need responsible farmers and this is a mutual dependence, not always conflict-free, but at best a profitable symbiosis, and we must also work for that. it is also of no use if we simply go over agriculture and the cap and blame them for all conflicts. i myself come from a region where many apple trees need many pollinators, and i know where the conflict lines lie, and also how to find a solution. we need clear protection during the flowering season, plant protection should be provided as soon as bees are not flying, and drifting should be prevented. the cap can also help with the second pillar's agri-environmental programmes, when we promote species-rich meadows and fields, with the conditionality and ecological programmes of the first pillar, for example with flower strips. but we do not protect bees by driving out farmers, but by raising awareness, encouraging them, but also by intervening when pollinators are treated with disrespect.
the commissioner is not a member of the commission. to tackle the problem of pollinators in a substantial way, we must ensure that member states take similar measures and coordinate their actions among themselves, particularly in border areas. it is equally important to include neighbouring countries that wish to cooperate with the european union. we cannot allow the use of environmentally and pollinating substances in agricultural activities within a few metres of the external border without any restrictions. moreover, we must stop as soon as possible the import of agricultural products which have been grown with pesticides banned in the european union. we can't pretend that this problem doesn't exist. the european union has sufficient tools to negotiate trade agreements or to demand support to ensure that we only get products that are safe and harmless to human health and the environment.
madam president, i have been listening with interest to today's debate after we unfortunately rejected the pesticide restrictions in the morning vote. this debate really shows a great deal of irreducibility. commissioner, you can try to support various projects, grants to small and medium-sized farmers, but when there is no radical restriction on pesticides, we simply will not save pollinators and increase their numbers. i'm sorry about that. i personally voted for most of the provisions that restrict pesticides. i was more radical than my colleagues in the faction. in the end, nothing happened. unfortunately, that's the politics. so let's think about how to get back to some global european solution as soon as possible, how to limit pesticides. until then, we're left with only our individual little practice. i am a representative in prague, the capital of the czech republic. we might be dealing with the issue of light smog that damages insects. we're changing the public lighting. even the little things make sense. but without global restrictions, european restrictions, unfortunately, these are just tiny islands of positive deviation.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, a few months ago, in march, we had a rich debate about the european citizens’ initiative ‘save bees and farmers!’, which was mentioned by some of you this evening. that debate clearly indicated how european citizens have great expectations for european policies in support of pollinators. i want to thank you for your efforts to build on that, and for the strong support you have shown since the very beginning of the european union pollinators initiative. i very much look forward to working with you further – not only me, but my colleague sinkevičius – as we roll out the new deal for pollinators. there is nothing more to add.
in writing. bees play a huge role in preserving biodiversity and food security in europe. we hungarians know this very well, because our honey density per square kilometer is the highest in the world. as a satellite superpower, we are making significant efforts to protect pollinators and the industry. we were the first eu member state to grant tax exemption and support for pollination to beekeepers and to restore pollinator habitats on nearly 150,000 hectares. protecting pollinators is important, but we must also remember to support beekeepers. few people talk about the fact that market turmoil and the inflow of fake honey from china have led the european beekeeping industry to the brink of bankruptcy. if this continues, there will be no beekeepers or pollinators in europe. there is an urgent need for action at eu level. we need to introduce much stricter rules on honey labelling and take action against foreign counterfeit honey.
i'm a writer. - mrs. speaker, please. it's been more than a year since jina mahsa amini died in an iranian police detention center. at the same time, iranian women and girls continue to protest against iranian oppression. earlier in october, 16-year-old armita geravand went to the subway and protested against the veil demand and was abused and then died in hospital. this is terrible. at the funeral, sacharov prize winner nasrin sotoudeh came to manifest her support and was imprisoned. this can't go on. the eu must put more pressure on iran. stop oppressing women and free all those who fight for human rights.
author. – madam president, i pay tribute to all victims of iranian mullahs. in june 2023, the human rights council acknowledged the heavy deterioration of the human rights situation in iran. in october 2023, the president of the un human rights council appointed iran as the chair of un human rights council social forum. this decision was defended by the high representative / vice president of the commission. are our statements here just rituals? we demand consistency in our policy vis-a-vis iran, in particular, with regard to the defence of human rights there, including the rights of eu citizens arbitrarily detained.
i'm a writer. i am not going to say anything. i met nasrin sotoudeh in 2013 in tehran. a warm-hearted, determined woman, a lawyer, a human rights activist. if you look at her resume, you can't believe it: after law school in 1995, she was denied admission for eight years. when she had it, she defended women protesting the headscarf, oppositionists, dissidents, journalists, religious minorities. she was arrested in 2010 and released under international pressure in 2013. five years later, she was arrested again, convicted in 2019 of 33 years and 148 lashes in her absence. prison, hunger strike, illness, prison leave, prison. their lives symbolize the hard struggles for freedom, democracy and self-determination in iran and give strength to all those who are now in prisons many, many dual nationals in the rest, like jamshid, sharmahd and many, many, many whose names we don't even know. to all these people we send our message: we hear you, we stand with you, we will never stop defending your lives and your struggles, and even so many moral guards cannot stifle your resistance. because the clocks are ticking differently. the future of iran is women. women, life, freedom. what are you doing?
on behalf of the ppe group. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. so, socially, prohibition never worked, and geopolitically, appeasement never worked. the most recent major example of this is the so-called nuclear deal the jcpoa. the iranian regime cannot make such an agreement because the iranian regime does not abide by agreements. the iranian regime is thus a threat to the peace and security of this world. the iranian regime is a particular threat to us europeans because it supports putin-russia in the war against europe with hybrid means against ukraine with military means and is thus one of the few remaining supporters of putin-russia in this protracted war against our civilization. the iranian regime is a security threat to the region and promotes anti-semitism and islamist terrorism worldwide. and the iranian regime is a threat to its own citizens and again especially to the women who are oppressed, who are oppressed, who have no free lives, who are far from any form of equality. and this is not only approved by the regime, but also presented to the whole world with all the repressive force. we won't let that happen. we are making sanctions, we are debating this even in the middle of the night in the european parliament, because europe does not sleep when human rights are violated in this way.
on behalf of the band the left. mrs president, let us repeat their names tirelessly: mahsa amini, 22, and armita geravand, 16. the government of iran's customs police killed them because they didn't want to wear the veil anymore. and the nobel peace prize winner narges mohammadi and the sakharov prize winner nasrin sotoudeh still languish in prison under unworthy living conditions. after the failure of the vienna nuclear deal, which was provoked by trump, the mullahs and the sinister guards of the revolution unleashed a blind crackdown on their own people, killing more than 500 protesters and executing dozens more. today, however, women dare to go out without a veil. they don't flap. they overwhelm the police of morals with their determination and numbers. and europe must say that it is on their side. she must support sanctions against iranian leaders. it must of course demand an immediate halt to the executions. she must also, and we will next month, support iranian women by awarding them the sakharov prize, which will be one of the best symbols of this year.
the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, has said that the adoption of the law on the promotion of chastity and the hijab is another attempt by the regime to completely dismantle the freedom of choice of iranian women. it is essential that our union express itself publicly, firmly and without any mediocrity, against a law that has nothing to do with the traditions and culture of a people so rich in history as iran. in less than a month we will be handing over the sakharov prize to the memory of mahsa amini and the women, life, freedom movement. it's an important gesture, a gesture that shows our closeness to iranian women in their daily struggle. but it is not enough because a simple delivery ceremony is not enough if we leave behind the thousands of activists and activists who make up this movement. nasrin sotoudeh has already paid the price for his courage. a european task force should be set up immediately to support the daily activities of thousands of human rights defenders around the world and it is a moral duty to give full support, support and protection to those who have distinguished themselves by being awarded the sakharov prize. individual sanctions are needed against those responsible for the regime. we need, of course, more support measures against the persecution of the iranian diaspora in europe every day. either we choose to stand by them, or even this prize will be squandered to become a plaque devoid of any meaning.
madam president, dear colleagues, the current iranian government has not only ignored the voices of change but has intensified its crackdown, detaining numerous activists and exerting oppressive force against peaceful dissent. the tragic case of armita, a schoolgirl of only 16 years old who has been in a coma since 1 october, following a confrontation with metro officers over mandatory hijab regulations, is a really horrible reminder of the grim reality in iran nowadays. such incidents are intolerable in the 21st century and must not go unaddressed. therefore, i really urge the european commission to intervene without delay, calling also on president raisi to cease the suppression of protesters and release political prisoners. failure to do so may lead to the imposition of targeted punitive measures on those responsible. together, let us stand in solidarity with the iranian people and reaffirm our unwavering commitment to the principles of freedom, dignity and human rights.
madam president, dear colleagues, madam commissioner, the tragic deaths of armita geravand and jina mahsa amini spotlight iran’s brutal treatment of women. women and girls are being punished by the hands of morality police for wearing or not wearing a piece of clothing. the regime relentlessly strips away their rights, even targeting people like sakharov and nobel laureates. we strongly condemn iran’s practice of arbitrary detention, police violence, torture, death sentences and executions. iranian authorities must immediately end all discriminatory measures and withdraw the oppressive bill. iran must immediately release political prisoners, including european citizens. johan floderus, a swedish citizen and eu official, has been held under heavy conditions in the notorious evin prison for more than 580 days now. this must stop and we need to get him home. we call for criminal investigation into the crimes committed by iranian authorities and sanction those responsible for human rights violations. in the face of this grave human rights violation, we must unite our voices in this call again and again.
madam president, i want to thank the colleagues who prepared this resolution, but i want to point out that the issue of human rights and iran is being discussed here in plenary regularly. especially during the last election period, there was a frequent debate about whether it was possible to conclude a treaty and cooperate with iran. it's a nuclear research treaty, a nuclear deal. this situation clearly shows, as we said at the time, that no deal can be made with the iranian regime. he doesn't want to keep any contracts. it's the country with the highest execution rate in the world, besides china. it's a country that doesn't respect human rights. its state and judicial system is absolutely not functioning, it is not functioning on the basis of laws and impartial rules. so i'm very skeptical that there's any way to work with iran in the future, and the cases we're describing here today just show that.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, this year’s sakharov prize shows the european full support for human rights and the respect, protection and fulfilment of fundamental freedoms, in iran and elsewhere. we were all impressed and moved by the extraordinary courage of women and men in iran following mahsa amini’s death in september last year. the decision of the nobel committee to award the peace prize to narges mohammadi also demonstrates how crucial the role of civil society is for peace and democracy. the world wants to see her free and not going on yet another hunger strike to improve her situation. the european union is concerned about the continued progressive deterioration of human rights in iran. repression and intimidation continue in a deplorable way, particularly against women. we are also concerned about the current pace of executions in the country, with at least 550 individuals executed since january, according to unofficial estimates. we have reacted decisively to the violent crackdown on protests over the past year, including through ten rounds of sanctions. we continue to raise human rights violations, executions as well as individual cases in every diplomatic opportunity with the iranian authorities, such as the very disturbing death of 16-year-old armita geravand. regarding the arbitrary detention of several european citizens in iran, our position is very clear. as outlined in the council conclusions of december 2022 and the statement of the high representative on behalf of the european union in february this year, we strongly reject this unlawful practice and call upon iran to end it immediately. we must keep our critical engagement with iran in order to be able to work for the release of all european citizens in coordination with the member states concerned, so we must keep diplomatic channels open. european member states have the primary consular responsibility for these cases. that is why we have strengthened our coordination. the high representative and his team are using every opportunity to express to the iranian authorities our firmest disapproval of these distressing, unlawful and unacceptable that detentions, including the illegal detention of our dear colleague johan floderus, for whom we have, of course, a different responsibility, as he is a european union employee. we will continue to work relentlessly for the freedom of all unjustly detained european citizens in iran.
author. – madam president, colleagues, right now, at this exact moment, in the troubled country that is niger, president mohamed bazoum and his son are waiting to die. his crime: being a democrat. the son’s crime: being his son. this is the sick logic of dictatorships. they are foes of light. along with ministers and civilians, the nigerien junta arrested democracy and snuffed out the light. we have seen many dictatorships in our lives, unfortunately, but we continue to be offended. as george steiner wrote a long time ago, we must never grow accustomed to even the smallest violations – we must remain outraged. though i have never met president bazoum –one day i might – i get it. as a young boy of 11, i witnessed my own father being jailed and my grandfather died under house arrest. president bazoum has been offered an escape clause to resign and go free. simple, no? not so simple. a warrior at heart, as i found out from my friend, he refuses to yield to his captors, even if this means he loses his life. with our vote tomorrow, we might just save a democrat and his son. with our vote tomorrow, we show our solidarity with the people of niger.
author. madam president, i met mohamed bazoum years ago when he was minister of the interior. first it was a political relationship and then it was a deep friendship relationship, a true friendship with a person in which i found an honest politician, a democrat, a man of honor. something that is sometimes very hard to find when honor turns into, simply, opportunity. there's a word in french that defines the human quality of mohamed bazoum, which is a mixture of honor and courage. it's called pride: the pride of not accepting your freedom in exchange for resigning from the presidency. not because the presidency is important to him. because it's not his presidency, but it means democracy, the values he's fought for his whole life: democracy, freedom and dignity in niger. i have to tell you that for me mohamed bazoum is an example for all of us. he is not defending his presidency, he is defending the honor, the pride of the people of niger.
author. – madam president, they allow unlawful detention of president bazoum, and the coup d’etat by the military junta in niger must be condemned with the strongest terms. we urge the military authorities to unconditionally release the legitimate president of niger, together with his family and other officials detained, and to swiftly return to the constitutional order and to democracy. meanwhile, while stopping budget support and security cooperation and implementing targeted measures against leaders of the junta, the eu has to ensure that humanitarian aid flows into the population in a country where, according to the un, 4.3 million people remain in need of humanitarian assistance. sadly enough, this concerning situation comes as a new step backwards in the already extremely unstable sahel region. during the last years, several sahel countries have experienced putsch that led to the establishment of military rule. jihadist insurgencies, extreme poverty, major migration flows, the effects of climate change. all these are factors that aggravate the situation in the sahel. against this backdrop, and to better contribute to peace and stability in the region, the eu has to re-evaluate and update its sahel perspective.
the author. madam president! - what? your honor! if i asked how many of you were in the negro, i'm sure a few people would have come forward. i was. it's probably the poorest country, certainly one of the poorest countries in africa, and perhaps the world, a dictatorship. but that doesn't necessarily mean it has to be a poor country, because we know in africa, unfortunately, there are states that are dictatorships that provide a much better life for their citizens than what is happening in the case of the negro. the pro-russian coup that took place there is certainly a picture of russia's growing military and political influence on the continent. but today, we must demand the release of a president who, as we hear, eats a dry pasta to survive. let's be united on this.
author. mrs president, in recent years we have witnessed a profound growth in anti-colonial european sentiment in africa, especially anti-french sentiment. this situation is being used in some countries like niger as an alibi to justify coups in the region. we cannot ignore the role played by some multinationals and european powers in the sahel region, both in the exploitation of their raw materials and in controlling migratory flows. niger is the world's fourth largest producer of uranium and a key player in europe's attempt to reduce its energy dependence on russia. but this, of course, has no effect on the benefit of the nigerian people. in fact, niger is one of the poorest countries in the world. if europe is really concerned about human rights and democracy in africa and in countries like niger, it must end its colonial policy of resource exploitation, a policy that only generates misery and dependency. and it must open a new stage of relations with the countries of the sahel. this stage has to go by not treating these countries as chess pieces in their match against russia and china. it must also replace the relations of dominance at military, economic and political levels with relations between equals, based on respect for free social and economic development and on the sovereignty of peoples.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. it is right that the european parliament and the european institutions should stand up to president bazoum, who has been deposed. he is truly a democrat, a man who has upheld the principles of democracy in this hard-tested region of africa. he was overthrown by a military junta, it was clear. he's locked up in the palace. however, i would like to point out that the european commission should have a general review of its policy in this area, as the problems in the sahel are growing. this is not the first sahel country to have a military coup that toppled a government. let's look at the situation in mali or burkina faso. the situation is similar there. it's an area where problems with islamic terrorists are growing. they're creating panic among the civilians, and then there's a growing desire for some military officials to take over and fight like that. the situation with the wagner family involved in this area, the influence of russia, these are all topics that we could discuss here and that show how complex this area is today, how sensitive it is and how our policy in this area should take these facts into account. in any case, now let's do everything we can to get president bazoum released and to leave the country, and most importantly, to get the junta to step down and get him back in power.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, madam commissioner, niger has been under the authority of a military junta led by the head of the presidential guard since july this year, which led the coup that deposed president mohamed bazoum. since then, with the president under house arrest with limited access to medical care, the country has been living with a military-imposed plan to see constitutional order restored. in just three years, under regional and international sanctions imposed by ecowas, the african union and the european union, the humanitarian conditions of the population, which were already difficult, are deteriorating, with some 3 million citizens in absolute need of immediate humanitarian aid. the economic and social security conditions in niger are becoming increasingly fragile and subject to external pressures and influences and are not recommended, with the risk of the presence of the wagner group in the territory. in this context, i call for the maintenance and strengthening of international sanctions targeting the members of the junta, for increased regional and global diplomacy efforts to end the impasse created by the military coup, for the immediate release of president mohamed bazoum and his son, and for the restoration of constitutional law for the good of the people and future of niger.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the latest military coup in niger and the unjust imprisonment of president bazoum represent a grave threat to democratic progress in the region. this unlawful act not only sets niger back, but also jeopardises the stability and democratic consolidation of west africa. furthermore, the concerning efforts by external factors such as russia to increase their presence in the sahel only deepen the existing fragility of the region and undermine democratic efforts. we welcome economic community of west african states-imposed sanctions and efforts for diplomatic solution. we also call on the council to implement sanctions against the leaders of the nigerien junta. the democratically elected president must be immediately reinstated and the constitutional order must be restored.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, almost four months after the coup in niger, president bazoum is still detained, with his wife and son, in the presidential palace in very difficult conditions. he has not resigned as the junta leaders would like. the eu should continue to pay tribute to his courage and perseverance. since the beginning of this crisis, the high representative has been very clear. on many occasions he has called for his release and for a return to constitutional order. we are supporting ecowas’ efforts in reaching these two objectives. for the time being, although some likeminded countries have practically accepted the situation and are engaging with the junta, thereby weakening ecowas, the european union does not believe that such unconstitutional changes can be trivialised. the experience in mali and burkina faso clearly shows that military coups do not lead to positive changes, either for the country or for the region. we should encourage niger to reach an agreement with the us for the return to the constitutional order, and we should stand by our views that this is the best way of ensuring peace and prosperity for the people of niger and beyond. the october european council has called for the immediate release of president bazoum and his family, and has also tasked the high representative / vice-president and the commission with presenting options for european union actions and instruments. that is what the relevant services are working on in view of the next foreign affairs council on 11 december.
author. – madam president, commission, colleagues, let me start by thanking my dear friend anna fotyga and all colleagues for excellent cooperation on drafting this resolution. i believe the strong text is a testimony to this house’s steadfast support for georgia’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, and the protection of human rights. i fundamentally condemn the brutal murder of tamaz ginturi. let me be clear: this horrific act, as well as all acts of murder, kidnapping, illegal abduction and torture of georgian citizens are the direct responsibility of the russian occupation forces. they would not happen if not for the occupation of georgian sovereign territory. this is why all those responsible must be held accountable, including through targeted sanctions. but above all, russia must cease its illegal occupation. we stand by georgia; support the euro-atlantic aspirations of its people; and condemn all efforts by russia and its proxies to undermine these goals.
author. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, the russian occupation of 20% of the territory of georgia is direct evidence of war crimes and a violation of the territorial integrity of georgia. the occupying russian authorities are pursuing an active policy of provocation, constantly expanding the occupied territories, abducting and terrorising the local population. tamaz ginturi, a 58-year-old georgian citizen, is the latest victim of the russian occupiers. he was murdered in cold blood while visiting his father’s grave. levan dotiashvili, who was with him, was illegally captured. the crimes of the russian occupiers must be met with strong condemnation by the international community and further legal action, as well as eu sanctions against those responsible for serious human rights violations.
author. – madam president, i would like to thank all co-authors, real friends of georgia, for excellent cooperation on this resolution, as well as very valuable contributions to final text that i hope will be voted positively. tamaz ginturi, a veteran of war waged by russia on georgia in 2008, was killed by russian forces near the administrative boundary line while heading to church with his companion, who was later captured and detained. we name in the resolution names of other victims, but our call is to establish the eu sanction list, similar to otkhozoria-tatunashvili, the georgian list, that is to lead us in imposing sanctions for these kinds of actions against civilians and the ordinary people of georgia, patriots of this country.
on behalf of the ecr group. the president! - what? the three candidate countries for the european union, namely georgia, moldova and ukraine, are countries whose territory is partly occupied by russia. in moldova, it is naddniestra. ukraine is known for crimea, donetsk and lugansk. we also know that in georgia it is abkhazia and south ossetia. and the death we're talking about today shows what the russian occupation is, what russia is. it's a good thing we're talking about this all together. but we must also make it clear that we must have a special plan for the countries that want to come to us, which are former post-soviet republics, so that the pro-russian forces there weaken and the pro-european forces there strengthen. and i think it could be a way to thank those georgians who died in the freedom struggle.
madam president, colleagues, on 8 november, the commission recommended to grant a candidate status to georgia. two days before this announcement, a georgian citizen, tamaz ginturi, was killed by russian occupying forces. he was shot dead for driving a car in his home country after visiting a cemetery and church. another lost life in the evil of russia. this is a sad example of how russia is casting its shadow also over countries such as georgia. it also represents an imminent threat to the integration process of this country. currently, 20% of georgia’s internationally recognised territory is under russian military occupation. we once again repeat our support for georgia’s sovereignty and territorial integrity under the international recognised border. russia must fulfil the obligation under the 2008 ceasefire agreement and withdraw its troops from the country. we demand the release of all georgian citizens in the illegal custody of the occupation regime, and to impose targeted sanctions on those responsible.
madam president, i want to thank my colleagues for making the murder of tamase ginturi clear in the context of putin's russia. ginturi is a victim of putin's russia, as are thousands, perhaps tens of thousands, of ukrainian civilians who are being murdered by this insane regime. we need to see how russia behaves in the areas of the former soviet union, how it tries to destabilize these countries, support or directly attack various undemocratic regimes there, see the case of ukraine. ginturi is a victim of putin, a victim of putin's russia. that's how you should see it and remember it. because if we forget what putin and russia are doing, unfortunately, it could happen that putin wins, defeats ukraine and immediately starts directly threatening europe and the european union.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, this year marks 15 years of russia’s illegal presence in georgia, since the war in 2008. the european union’s commitment to a peaceful resolution of the conflict in georgia is as strong as ever. we condemn russia’s continued military presence in abkhazia and south ossetia, which violates international law and the commitments undertaken by russia. local communities continue to suffer from humanitarian challenges and human rights violations. the killing of tamaz ginturi is yet another blatant violent violation of human rights committed by russian federation border guards in georgia. this adds to the list of russia’s illegal activities in the georgian-occupied breakaway regions of abkhazia and south ossetia, and demonstrates the deterioration of the human rights situation there. such actions include fencing along south ossetia administrative boundary line, repeated and protracted closures of crossing points, as well as the use of force and illegal and arbitrary detentions of georgian citizens. russia’s effective control of south ossetia and abkhazia continues to violate several provisions of the european convention of human rights. this was underlined by the european court of human rights’ judgment in the interstate case concerning the armed conflict between georgia and the russian federation in august 2008. since october 2008, the european union has been fully engaged in conflict resolution efforts in georgia. it has done so in the capacity of co-chair in the geneva international discussions and through the efforts of the european union’s special representative. the european union monitoring mission, present in georgia for 15 years now, remains the only legitimate international presence on the ground. the mission has played a central role, among others, in enabling the communication among the parties involved, deescalating tensions on the ground and monitoring the situation following the killing and illegal detention of two georgian citizens. the european union reconfirms its commitment to stabilisation and conflict resolution in georgia and reiterates its firm support to the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of georgia within its internationally recognised borders. we urge all parts of this conflict to engage constructively in the discussions to achieve the full implementation of the six-point agreement of 2008, and we urge russia to fulfil all its obligations. the european union’s special representative will insist once again on the european union’s expectations during the geneva international discussions this december.
i voted against this budget for a thousand reasons, but i'll point out one. the budget for iter and eurofusion, a programme which could solve the energy problem permanently, is again being cut. however, that, unfortunately, is not our concern. the only thing i've ever warned about in 2020 is that the budget isn't going down. then, during the lockdown, a good part of the european economy was destroyed, so it went to cut, and it went to cut iter. i then warned that seven phd students, dozens of scientists and technical staff were involved in the fusion research in croatia. the commission considers that the commission is not in a position to take any further steps to ensure that the information provided by the commission is not used by the commission. the most damaging aspect is not even financial, but technological backwardness. all over the world, other countries and organizations are working on this project and they are developing as we fall behind technologically. it's unnecessary and stupid. i voted against it.
madam president, although it is late at night, i think it is important to explain what actually happened today. it was a big surprise that parliament's position on reducing pesticides was not finally adopted on this regulation. i want to emphasize that i voted against the rejection. i supported the amendments and i also supported the proposal as a whole. first of all, we voted to extend the deadline for reducing pesticides until 2035. we have changed the reference period to 2011 to 2013. member states should have greater flexibility in the use of pesticides in sensitive areas. and a very close majority voted for the possibility of exemption for those member states with a lower pesticide use rate than the european union average of 35%. in short, we approved a very good basis for amendments, but it was not passed because of those who preferred ideology over environmental protection.
madam president, i also want to make this point because i considered the vote extremely important and the result is unfortunately unfortunate. i voted for the final compromise, even though i am convinced that some amendments that would bring about faster and more significant pesticide reductions would help and benefit european nature. i respect that these more ambitious proposals did not pass, although, as i said, i voted for them against some of my colleagues in my faction. but what i regret is that at the end of the day, at least this compromise, which i'll repeat, i wasn't thrilled with, didn't pass. i always feel it's better to have some restrictions on pesticides here than to have no restrictions at all. so the politicization won. i understand that some of my colleagues wanted a more ambitious project, but sometimes in politics, there's a better compromise solution that's not completely satisfying than no solution. unfortunately, we don't have a solution right now.
madam president, i want to explain why i supported the package leaflet because it is important. we don't want to die under tons of waste that multiply. for example, 1,33 million tonnes of waste were placed on the market in the czech republic alone in 2021. however, waste and packaging have a very short life cycle and cannot be recycled. over the last 20 years, we've produced two-thirds of the plastics that have been produced since mass production began in 1950. the eu uses the highest percentage of pure raw materials, 50% of paper and 40% of plastic for packaging. therefore, i consider it important that 10% of these packages to be used as from 1 january 2030 be reusable packages and 30% of these packages be reused as from 1 january 2040.
madam president, i also supported this proposal. i think that despite some compromise provisions, it is good that we have adopted an amendment that will lead to a reduction in packaging. it's a huge problem. but i still think even more ambitious goals can be achieved. i'm not a fan of regulations where a certain percentage is set and a certain year is set to be reached. i may have a certain allergy to it from when i was still a young man living in communist czechoslovakia and the communist party there also gave different resolutions and goals. but it's good that this proposal has passed here, that there's a clear philosophy to fight waste with packaging, that there's a clear philosophy to recycle these packaging, and hopefully in practice this proposal will help and not just end up with unfulfilled intentions.
madam president, i voted against the proposed amendments to the treaties today. i am for a gradual, transparent and negotiable integration of the european union with the citizens. the proposals voted today lead to a significant deepening of integration and a weakening of the powers of the member states. and as i'm saying, they haven't been fully negotiated with the citizens. with such radical changes, i simply cannot identify and defend them in front of my fellow citizens. these are concrete changes from a formal one, such as the change of the name of the commission to the european executive, or the introduction of the presidency of the european union, to a fundamental change in the strengthening of the european union's competences at the expense of the member states, such as the replacement of unanimity by a qualified majority in areas such as negotiating and concluding trade agreements or foreign investment. i think that the european union needs to be united, not divided, first and foremost. that's what the vote today is for: 291 for, 274 against, 44 abstained. this means that the proposal is not supported by a majority of the members present.
madam president, i was convinced that this proposal was not acceptable because it is harmful and is against the interests of the citizens, of the member states. not only are you turning the european union into a european soviet union, because you're even renaming the commission an executive committee it's like the presidium of the central committee of the communist party of the soviet union. the chief commissioner will be called the chief secretary. it's so, so ironic that if it wasn't sad, it would be funny. but leave the laughing alone. none of what you're doing today is funny. what is happening is that the powers of the member states are being taken away and the unelected, unelected anonymous officials in brussels are being transferred to no one. you're taking away the veto, which is extremely important because it equals the powers of the states. there's no big or small. when you take away that right, small countries are second-hand, as are bulgaria and romania, which are not in schengen. and that's a shame, because it's hypocrisy, a double standard, and it condemns countries to be outside the common, to be second-hand, to be second-class. this is wrong, this is harmful. this will cause damage to the european union. we will continue to fight, but for the european union, which is the european union of the fatherlands, of sovereign states, not a soviet socialist european union.
i am strongly opposed to amendments to the agreement on european union and the agreement on the functioning of the european union. my croatia accounts for only 0.4 percent of the union's economy and 0.8 percent of the population, and the highest in this house is 1.7 percent of the vote. the only real power to protect against bad policies is the council. however, with these changes, it wants to end all that. so let me quote article 16, paragraph 3: until now it's decided by a qualified majority, and now it's going to be a normal one. then, paragraph 4: no longer need 55 percent of the council and 65 percent of the population, but only 50 percent, until the blocking minority is completely abolished. if, therefore, there were to be changes and if this escalated, countries like croatia would become less important peripheral regions and not more states than regions on the periphery of the union, which no one would now in theory ask for. i'm very against this.
honourable presidents, commissioners, the international day against violence against women is an opportunity to raise awareness of the black statistics and the dangers that girls and women face around the world. it is estimated that 736 million women worldwide, nearly one in three, have been subjected to physical or sexual violence at least once in their lives. this year's global campaign on november 25 calls on governments around the world to showcase their investments in preventing gender-based violence, and the campaign's slogan is no excuse. i will take this opportunity today to address the member states of the european union, which are discussing our new directive on combating violence against women in the council and are refusing to criminalize rape as an eu crime. i would like to say that i am not going to say anything about the european parliament. sexual violence is one of the most common forms of violence, and it's time to sanction it as such. i welcome the efforts of the commission and call on the council to ensure a european union free from violence, sexual assault and rape and to send a clear message: just say yes!
in the name of the ppe club. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the digital transition we are witnessing every day has yet to reach its full potential in the area of justice and cross-border cooperation in civil, commercial and criminal matters. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet established a legal basis for the application of the rules on the protection of personal data. as the european parliament's rapporteur on the digitalisation of public services, i have strongly supported the report which the european parliament has adopted by a large majority. the european union already has a comprehensive set of instruments designed to improve judicial cooperation. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 of this regulation. i am therefore particularly pleased that we will create conditions for access to the use of modern technologies in cross-border judicial cooperation and access to justice through the digitisation of judicial cooperation regulation. the new regulation will allow the use of electronic means of communication, such as video conferencing between individuals and legal entities and between courts and competent authorities, which will facilitate cross-border access to justice. however, in the circumstances where the european union is recording an unprecedented influx of migrants, i would like to use this debate to call for a stronger eu engagement in the fight against mass migration, especially illegal migration. this also entails better international cooperation in the area of exchange of information on migrants. it is therefore important to reach a final agreement on the migration and asylum pact, which will contain the instruments to prevent uncontrolled and mass entry into the european union, with first-accession countries not to bear the greatest burden of migration pressure. it has long been clear that the european union cannot welcome all those who wish to live in europe simply because the quality of life here is better than in third countries. colleagues, in defending the european way of life, crossborder cooperation in police and judicial matters is of paramount importance.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details concerning the vote: see minutes)
in 2006, the european union adopted a directive on equality bodies. in 2010 it was extended to include self-employed people. today, both are being reviewed, merged and their capacity to act has been considerably expanded, promoting a more regulatory standardisation than a directive. for example, bodies can set their own budgets but have little accountability. the aim is to have a national, regional and local presence, multiplying public expenditure by duplicities, triplicities and quadruplicities. this is not an efficient use of resources and will be a greater burden on the taxpayer. equality bodies may even compel other state bodies through regulatory, control and sanctioning powers, which may not be in the common good but in the body's own interest, since they have no defined control. they can also hinder the activities of european companies, which will be involved in bureaucratic and judicial proceedings that not only create burdens but also legal insecurity. this can seriously harm job creation. we therefore see that this proposal is giving these bodies authority over other bodies, without legitimacy or democratic control. the scope of the alleged discrimination is not confined to the concept of man and woman, and can therefore be assimilated by the back door to the anti-discrimination directive, which our states do not see fit. we know that the commission on women's rights and gender equality and the commission on employment and social affairs have a different bias from the whole house. it is therefore appropriate that this house should enrich and moderate parliament's mandate. i therefore ask your vote to make democratic control and review effective.
rapporteur. – madam president, let me be very clear: with this report we make the fight against all forms of discrimination and inequality a priority of this house and of this union. and by supporting the mandate, we defend the european core values enshrined in our treaties and we give a clear signal to our citizens that this house stands behind them. deepening the union of equality is the best instrument to protect and to promote our democracy, and we are here in the house of democracy so i invite everybody to vote for this report. it is a good report. thank you to the european disability forum, to equinet and to all the civil society organisations and human rights defenders that supported us and helped us make this report a good report. and thank you to my co-rapporteur sirpa and to our teams and all the shadow rapporteurs. let us be on the right side of history.
rapporteur. – madam president, i wholeheartedly ask all of the members of the european parliament to vote in favour of this directive. it is the update of equality bodies legislation based on the new steps that we have in regulations concerning equality, like pay transparency. it is mostly technical, but the most important part is ensuring the independence of these actors from external influence. without implementation, any good thoughts and regulations are just empty words. it is very saddening and telling that this is used as a weapon in false premises for populist policies because, for example, these audit structures do exist according to national legislation, and there was strong unity in both committees to support this change.
rapporteur. – a uachtaráin, this implementation report is the first report of parliament assessing the operation of the uk trade and cooperation agreement, but more importantly, detailing practical steps forward to improve our relationship with the uk in a manner that respects the agreements made. it seems a lifetime ago that brexit dominated the headlines, but its effects are continuing to impact citizens and businesses. this report is very timely, not only as meps travel to westminster in the coming weeks for the ppa, but also as there will be a general election in the united kingdom next year. the report was adopted with near unanimity in a joint vote of inta and afet, providing a welcome example of cooperation among the two committees, as well as the 12 opinion-giving committees. i would like to thank my co-rapporteur, andreas schieder from s&d, and other contributing meps from across the political groups. i call on colleagues to maintain this collegial approach into this vote, so that there is no ambiguity about how the european parliament sees the way forward. lastly, stormont is still without a functioning executive. it is now time to move past the political stalemate in northern ireland and get the assembly back up and running. they could adopt a policy of ‘i’m a celebrity – get me back in there!’
that concludes the vote. (the sitting was suspended at 12.30)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on young researchers by cristian-silviu buşoi on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000052/2023 – b9-0034/23).
author. – madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, young researchers are faced with a very demanding reality, working in precarious conditions, and often forced to leave their countries in search of opportunities. all of this is leading the european union to a situation in which talent is being wasted or lost to other economies. their situation got worse in recent years. the covid-19 crisis has hit many young researchers, who faced worse conditions, funding problems and reduced access to laboratories and other essential facilities. in fact, the mentioned problems were the subject of an ‘open letter on behalf of young researchers’ sent to the european commission during the pandemic, of which i was one of the subscribers, together with many colleagues. the european commission’s own communication on a new european research area for research and innovation identifies a series of problems holding back the careers of young researchers, in particular in terms of access to employment. a significant imbalance exists between the growing number of phd graduates and the small number of positions, especially in public science systems. on the other hand, in another communication, on harnessing talent in europe’s regions, the commission highlights the talent development trap in european regions suffering from demographic decline and a stagnant share of the population in higher education, and the significant departure of young people from such regions. i could go on quoting other documents from the different stakeholders, mentioning these and the other issues, such as the gender imbalance in access to many different fields, or the rise of the cost of living and its impact on young researchers. however, i believe this introduction is enough to establish a general picture of what we are facing. at the same time, the solutions are clear. part of the responsibility belongs to member states, and the time has come for them to reinforce strategies aiming at absorbing, in universities, public and private institutions, the young researchers that we are training. the eu shares responsibility in several areas and, in fact, has been following this subject quite closely. different european parliament resolutions on this subject have offered concrete solutions, notably the european parliament resolution of 11 november 2021 on the european education area, that stressed the importance of more research and training opportunities for young researchers across europe, as well as the mutual recognition of diplomas and qualifications that can facilitate the career of the young researchers in europe. i believe that we can all agree that the european funding for research and innovation activities needs to be adjusted, not just in terms of total amounts, but also of the duration of certain programmes and grants, in order to offer more promising, more long-term career prospects for young researchers. the european union should further promote cooperation in human capital development, especially through researchers’ training and mobility schemes, in particular the marie curie actions. the need to increase women’s participation in stem subjects – science, technology, engineering and mathematics – is also clearly identified, as is the need to improve the attractiveness of research careers in social science and humanities, which suffer the most from funding shortfalls in many member states. therefore, dear commissioner, considering that there is a general agreement on what the problems are, and what the solutions could be implemented, and considering that preventing the brain drain of our brilliant young minds is key for the future of the european union, i would like to ask you, what specific measures is the european commission planning to take in order to change the current status quo for young researchers?
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i very much welcome the opportunity to discuss with you the important issue of young researchers or early-stage researchers. allow me to begin by mentioning the specific actions that the commission is undertaking in the european research area, in consultation with member states and stakeholders. we have made a proposal for a council recommendation on a european framework for research careers, which we hope will be adopted by the council by the end of the year. this recommendation covers many different aspects, including specific measures in support of early-career researchers. we will set up a dedicated observatory on research careers to improve our knowledge and data about these issues. we have developed a european competence framework for researchers to foster the transversal skills of researchers and support mobility between sectors, which is already available online. we are developing an era talent platform as a one-stop-shop where researchers can find all available resources. we support reform of research and researchers’ assessment to move towards an assessment system that takes into consideration the overall impact of researchers’ outputs, activities and practices on research and innovation, and not only publications. we are preparing a horizon europe pilot call in 2034 with the objective of putting together inter-sectoral consortia, where partners join forces to improve the career opportunities for early-stage researchers. finally, we are organising an eu talenton that challenges young researchers, 21 to 35 years old, to find solutions on the most pressing global issues. the next edition of the eu talenton will be part of the katowice european city of science in 2024. the commission considers it essential to ensure a broad talent base for scientific research and to attract students and graduates to research careers in europe. and the initiatives that i have mentioned certainly have the objectives of addressing this. the proposed council recommendation and the new charter for researchers annexed to it aim at strengthening research careers in the entire european research area and countering regional divides, unbalanced talent circulation, as well as gender inequalities. in this respect, the commission is also designing initiatives that can foster the exchange of good practices and lessons learned among member states, including by means of mutual learning exercises. regarding gender equality, the new charter for researchers includes also provisions on combating gender-based violence and sexual harassment, which are serious and under-recognised issues. these topics are also part of the era policy agenda, european research area policy agenda 2022-2024, and will be addressed by the upcoming project gender safe, funded by the 2023 horizon europe widera work programme. you know how much the gender issue is close to my heart, and i am particularly sensitive to how the commission supports projects that integrate arts, humanities and social sciences to stem disciplines, the so-called steam approach to make stem careers more appealing also to women. a range of activities are also developed under pillar three of horizon europe, including the girls go circular initiative run by the eit, and the package of measures introduced by the european innovation council to support women leadership in europe’s deep tech industry, such as the women techeu scheme, offering early-stage financing, coaching and mentoring and which has already benefited 130 women-led deep tech startups. also at operational level, horizon europe foresees that academic and research organisations benefit from a gender equality plan to ensure gender-equal and inclusive working environments. allow me also to note that young and early career researchers’ precarity resulting from consecutive short-term project-based contracts is among the biggest challenges affecting the attractiveness of research careers in europe. again here, the proposed council recommendation advocates limiting the use of fixed-term contracts, calls for a broader use of more adequate funding mechanisms and promotes career advisory and support services for researchers. it also addresses social protection rights to make sure that the researchers at all career stages can benefit from adequate levels of protection. allow me to say a few words about inter—sectoral mobility. making careers interoperable between sectors is very important. it helps close the gap between researchers and the labour market needs for highly skilled talents, and it enriches the spectrum of opportunities for young and early-career researchers contributing to addressing precarity. here again, the commission is proposing dedicated initiatives which include an ongoing mutual learning exercise steered by the commission coordination and with the participation of 18 member states. a widening action in horizon europe called era talents, which promotes cross-sectoral staff exchanges in r&i, where there are now nine projects running, and marie skłodowska-curie actions and the support of mobility offered by euraxess. at the same time, the commission aims to reinforce careers in academia and the return of researchers to the academic path, and has recommended to member states to consider the adoption of tenure-track systems. brain drain is a complex issue caused by the interplay of several factors, including unattractive research environments and inadequate working conditions. there is a need to address the roots of this problem via system reforms that can lead to sustainable, long-term solutions. several measures have contributed to reduce brain drain in the past, such as return grants or era fellowships. i believe that the implementation of the council recommendation and of all other instruments, including the ones listed in the harnessing talent in european regions communication, will be key in addressing this, both within the union as well as in relation to young talents leaving towards third countries outside the union. and last, a word about public investment and r&i. the competitiveness and attractiveness of the european r&i system also depends on the level of investment by the public and private sector. resources invested at the level of the union are only complementary to the national efforts. the pact for r&i in europe, adopted in 2021, reaffirms the union-level target on investing 3% of union gdp in research and development. the pact also refers to additional voluntary targets including 1.25% of union gdp of public investment to be achieved by member states by 2030. the level of investment in r&i is still far below these ambitious objectives at this moment, and 2.3% of gdp. the commission will, of course, continue to urge investments in line with these targets.
on behalf of the ppe group. – a uachtaráin, commissioner, in the ever-changing landscape of global challenges, including complex environmental issues, multifaceted technological dilemmas like ai and global pandemics, it is the young researchers who lead the march towards groundbreaking and innovative solutions. they are the researchers and innovators of the future. the researchers that we will depend upon to create solutions to the vast economic and societal issues that lie ahead. despite their undoubted contributions, young researchers often find themselves undervalued, a trend evident in my own country of ireland. a recent report, released this summer, shed light on the disheartening reality that phd researchers in ireland receive a mere eur 18 000 to eur 19 000 per year. given the prevailing cost-of-living crisis in ireland and in europe, the report stated that this stipend falls well short of meeting the essential needs of these young researchers. unfortunately, this is a common trend across europe. in july of this year, the commission released measures to fortify the european research area. these include proposals for a council recommendation establishing a new european framework for research careers, a new charter for researchers, and the european competence framework for researchers to support inter-sectoral mobility. all very good suggestions. we need to recognise that young researchers are highly skilled graduates and lucrative career opportunities must be available to them. we need to make the prospect of an additional four years of full-time studies within the eu an attractive career option in both the short and long term. looking ahead, a crucial question emerges. i hope this commission, in collaboration with fellow european institutions, can implement additional measures to not only acknowledge the importance of these young researchers, but also pave the way for a sustainable career path for them. in my language, there is a saying: ‘mol an óige agus tiocfaidh sí’, ‘praise the young and they will develop’. we could add to that: ‘pay the young and they will deliver’, ‘íoc an óige agus déanfaidh sí an beart’.
on behalf of the renew club. honourable president, vice-president of the commission, i believe and i maintain that young people are the most creative, the best part of our society. and i get angry when i hear that this or that country is the locomotive of europe, when this or that technology is the locomotive. no, i'm saying that young people are the engine of our europe's development. and more than that. it's clear that investments in r&d, on the one hand, and the way we live, which is gdp growth, are directly correlated. for that reason, it is clear that young people should not be spared investing in young researchers. and that's the responsibility of the public sector, the public sector, to do what's best and to enable young people to showcase their knowledge, their creativity, their skills and to focus on their work. and so i think that together with the member states we need to make more efforts so that young people can really be the real engine. and yes, i support horizon and all the projects and programs that the european commission is implementing for young researchers, but if we want to be leaders in relation to other world powers, i think we need to make an extra effort at this point to really enable young people to be the best part of our society, which they are.
the reporter. the chairman, at all times, healthcare professionals, researchers and health regulators process and use critical health data to save lives. the covid-19 pandemic has demonstrated the importance of updated health data for making key public health decisions and responding to crisis situations in a timely manner, as well as for treatment, research and innovation. however, there are still a number of barriers in the member states in terms of complex rules and procedures that prevent the full exploitation of the potential of digital health and health data. the main problems arise from the absence of mandatory standards at union level, which causes limited interoperability and the impossibility of data exchange, not only between hospitals and offices in different countries but often within the same member state. by establishing the european health data area, we are trying to remove these very obstacles and problems. the aim of this regulation is to establish a european health data area to improve citizens' access to their personal electronic health data. this is called the primary use of electronic health data. secondary use, on the other hand, means the use of health data for innovation and research with the aim of developing new, life-saving treatments and medicines. in the primary use of health data, citizens are placed at the centre because they are given control over their data to improve healthcare throughout the european union. this means that we are putting all our health data in the eu into a digital space where citizens can easily and free of charge access their own health records in electronic form, which is recognised and accepted throughout the union, via mobile phones or computers. in this way, they are able to share their health data with doctors in their own country or in other member states, thus gaining access to better health care. the new rules will ensure better diagnosis and treatment, reduce medical errors, and avoid unnecessary examinations, and make the work of physicians more effective. this will enable our citizens to receive better and faster treatment, but also facilitate treatment abroad and facilitate access to equal healthcare in all eu member states. when it comes to secondary use of health data, industry researchers, along with policymakers, are currently facing major barriers to accessing the data they need to develop new products or make decisions. in this context, the eu lags behind other global actors such as the us or china. the adoption of this european law will reduce the dependence on third countries and make them more competitive in the field of pharmaceutical manufacturing. in particular, under strict conditions, researchers will be given access to large amounts of high-quality health data to better understand various diseases. this is key to the development of new treatments and life-saving medical products. it should be emphasized that the health data to be exchanged will be anonymised and pseudonymised, which means that the possibility of identifying citizens using health data is minimized and thus achieving a balance between, on the one hand, the need to use health data in a way that can save more lives, but also the need to protect the privacy and health data of our citizens. as co-rapporteur on this legislative proposal, after more than nine months of negotiations between the political groups, i can say that i am generally satisfied with the final text adopted at committee level. in the negotiations, i sought to maintain the basic principles contained in the commission's legislative proposal while improving certain essential parts. however, in the case of secondary use, i consider that the commission's proposal on patients' rights to decide was not sufficient. we therefore proposed provisions that would allow citizens to opt out of the secondary health data system, if they so choose, in whole or in part. we give these citizens the option to make their own judgment on whether or not they want their health data to be used under strict measures for innovation research. ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a revolutionary proposal that must be supported and completed by the entire legislative process before the end of the term of this session of parliament. the european union and the member states are responsible for ensuring that the european health data area is easily applicable in practice and that the system works for the benefit of our citizens.
blue-card question. – you know that if we want data to be useful for research innovation, it needs to be representative, and you know what you propose is to have a consent-based system or an opt-in system whereby every patient whose data is part of a certain data set would need to give consent or an opt-in for this data to be used. so my question is: how do you plan to ensure representativeness, that this data is actually useful, that we can use it to develop new medicines to save lives if we go for your approach? because everybody that i talked to – patient groups, stakeholders, healthcare professionals – all said that this is impossible to achieve what you propose.
blue-card question. – dear colleague, thank you very much, but i do not understand how you can say that we are against additional patients’ rights because we are the ones who proposed an opt-out on secondary use. there was nothing there before. we actively added additional patient rights when compared to the commission proposal. so definitely i do not see how you can say that we are against additional patient rights. my question is that we already have, for primary use, the provision that patients can limit access to all or part of their data according to their choice. so my question is: what does your proposal, your amendment add to that? because we already have the possibilities for patients to limit access to data if they want to do that. so what do you want to achieve additional to that with your proposal?
blue-card reaction. – i wasn’t speaking about the red line, but i said that i believe that what we have in the draft report is sufficient enough in terms of protection of patients’ rights. so i never used the actual phrase ‘the red line’ – you can check my original wording. i just said, and i repeated this afterwards, that there is no need, there is no necessity to accept what you propose, because we already have enough safeguards to protect patients’ right to choose.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would just like to answer some questions and concerns which have been raised here. so first we will not give anyone’s health data to banks and tech giants. so that’s completely clear in the draft report. so the data can only be used for very narrowly defined purposes relating to healthcare for the benefit of the patients, and we made it even more precise enough. so no giving away of health data to banks and tech giants. so that’s completely clear. second, the notion that we are creating some kind of a european superstate which will decide about our data: all decisions on individual requests to access data will be decided on the national level. so we will have health data access bodies on the national level, and these bodies will make decisions on individual requests. so no super-european institution which will decide about individual requests to access health data. three – what the greens propose – so to have a consent-based system for secondary use. so if we have this, it will destroy the whole system. it will destroy the whole purpose of the ehds, because we will not have enough data so that it is representative, unbiased and useful. the whole idea of the ehds is to have more data available than we have now through the system of clinical trials. so saying that we already have clinical trials and that is great means essentially that we don’t need the ehds. we believe that we do. i believe that what we have now is not enough. we need access to more data, and the ehds is the way to achieve this. i think what is the best proof of our approach is that all patient groups unanimously support this. so patient groups do not want the consent-based or an opt-in-based system, because they understand that then data will not be useful. we will not be able to innovate, create new medical technologies to save lives. the last point is on the opt-out for primary use: as the commissioner already said, we already have the safeguards in place prescribing that once we have an electronic health record, we as patients will be able to restrict access to all or part of this data, on mental health conditions, on sexually transmitted disease or whatever. so we believe that the safeguards that we already have in here are enough to protect patients’ right to decide and patients’ right to privacy. for that reason, there is no need to accept this amendment proposed by the german spd.
mr. chairman, after committing the greatest crime in israel's history two months ago, the terrorist organization hamas still holds more than 130 prisoners abducted on october 7. in addition, hamas continues to carry out terrorist attacks on israel, including a recent attack on civilians in jerusalem. so it's a shame that today, in the international community, as well as in this parliament, there are those who relativize the crimes of hamas and who want to equate the guilt for the brutal crimes that were committed. so we need to use this debate to unambiguously, without a fist in our pocket, condemn the terrorist attacks that hamas has carried out and still carries out and provide clear support to israel, which has the right and duty to defend itself. ladies and gentlemen, peaceful coexistence in the context of a two-state solution will not be possible until the continued terrorist threat to the israeli people from hamas is removed. it is also particularly concerned by the strengthening of radical islamist movements that threaten the security of citizens in the european union and that support hamas terrorism throughout european metropolises. members of such movements have no place in europe and europe should not tolerate such movements.
your honor, mrs von der leyen, after you played the goddess of health and burned 70 billion euros of eu citizens' fake vaccines that killed at least 12,000 eu citizens, you are now playing the goddess of war. after hundreds of thousands of people have been killed in the war in ukraine and millions of people displaced from ukraine, you now want to prolong that agony and take another 50 billion euros from the citizens of the european union, and what will be the consequences? will the war end? will there be peace? - he won't! at least 100,000 more people will die who wouldn't have died if we stopped this war. and how can this war be stopped? we're negotiating. the weapon can't stop. the death of young people will not stop this war. we all know that, but unfortunately, we don't want to admit it.
rapporteur. – madam president, i think this is a great day for healthcare in the european union. after one year of very hard negotiations, i believe that we found a really good compromise – it’s not perfect, but i think it’s a good starting point for interinstitutional negotiations. it will make it possible to use the untapped potential of health data for research innovation, but also to have much faster and more efficient healthcare in the european union. i would like to thank my co-rapporteur, also the shadows and all the staff for the great work that they’ve done. and i would like to ask you to refer the file back to committees for interinstitutional negotiations on the basis of rule 59.
i'm here for the ecr team. mr president, and thank you for allowing us to discuss the housing and cost of living crisis for young people. i myself focus on describing the problematic situation in the finnish housing market, where too many over-the-counter housing units have been built during the zero-rates period and over-indebted housing stock companies have been set up already at the start-up stage. the overall situation is further exacerbated by the large personal debts of home buyers. at the same time, all other compulsory housing and living costs have risen dramatically. over the past decade or so, finnish tax practices have been steadily shifting to favour housing buyers over young people and families with children. this is probably the basis for the effective lobbying of capitalist circles such as the financial sector. a homeowner with a large tax liability may deduct from the rental income of his rental apartments not only the normal maintenance burden but also the financial burden, i.e. the interest rates on the company loan and even the loan reductions in full. what, then, has followed this dream of homeowners during the zero-levels? what happens after interest rates return to normal? if over-indebted housing equity firms are unable to meet their loan reductions and interest rates, the housing company may go bankrupt. these debtor-owned housing stock companies are now marketed with up to two years of free housing, or a discount on the trading price of a couple of years' company shares. the temptation to live for two years free can lead to the loss of all savings and property of a trusted buyer. at worst, you may have a debt balance that you may have been married to for years. i believe that the risks of buying a home should always be communicated in plain language, especially to all first-time home buyers who have not yet been introduced to the construction and real estate industries through the appellate body. this would avoid many housing problems.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, being a member of the european parliament means attending every meeting with such surrealism that it would almost make you smile if the subjects were not so dramatic. we have been discussing a union strategy to help young people cope with housing and cost of living crises for the last 30 minutes. what if the union stopped doing so a little? every time you claim to help, you make things worse: housing is expensive, but you are the one who imposed uncontrollable, punitive environmental standards that now discourage homeowners from renting or force people to stay in homes they can no longer renovate because they cannot afford it. energy is expensive, but you set up this energy market, you made decisions about our sources of supply and you killed our nuclear industry. life is expensive, but you are the one who brings products from the other side of the world, imposes your globalist vision on the member states and only takes care of citizens when you need to heal your image. it is you, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, who are validating ever more deadly texts in the name of a supposedly protective europe. you want to help young people? give them reasons to believe in the future. it is no longer acceptable that one in five young people live below the poverty line. when 80% of young people have to live with poor parents, how do you want them to have faith in the future? it is time for the european union to change its software. stop trying to get involved. accept that member states are free to take the measures that young people need to regain their taste for work and success and their desire to look to a more peaceful future. young people are our future, let them shine.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, i want to welcome this debate on an eu strategy to assist young people facing the housing and cost-of-living crises – crises exasperated by the greed of energy and financial institutions, who record record profits while workers and families pay record prices. in ireland, the cost of renting or buying a home is beyond the reach of most people. north american cuckoo funds should be prevented from buying up the housing supply from under people’s noses. so if the eu is serious about tackling the housing crisis, the first step they must take is to bin the vulture funds directive and put a stop to these vultures from making workers and children homeless. the revised fiscal rules should not make it easier to buy tanks than to build houses. and in ireland, we must build houses. ireland’s coffers are allegedly awash with money. yet this christmas will see 13 000 people homeless in ireland, 4 000 of them children. this is a wrong which must be righted immediately. we need real action. we need to build more homes.
- your honor, thank you very much. why are young people leaving croatia? except for injustice, riots and corruption and because no one wants to work for 500 euros anymore. the square footage in croatia is over 3500 euros. however, the price of a square of an apartment when purchased does not reflect much of the price in other european countries, but all taxes and taxes that the state takes, at the cost of living, are drastically higher in croatia than anywhere else. the average salary in croatia is only eur 1150, while in belgium it is eur 2500. the average pension in croatia is 450 euros, in belgium 1300 euros. the commission has also examined the possible implications of the measures in question. i see firsthand the huge difference between net and gross earnings. i have registered assistants in croatia and belgium. for the same net salary in croatia i pay a 55% higher gross amount than in belgium. the fraud with the second pension pillar, which is current today, was exposed seven years ago and with all these injustices and giving again croatia cannot restore the country from the earthquake, clean the streets from the weather or build a functional waste management system. croatia is the most beautiful country to live in, but we are unfortunately not voting for their own good, but for criminals who rob them to take it away, which we see these days. and until the young people are elected and corrupt officials are dismissed from the government, they will flee to foreign countries, often doing cheap physical labor. we deserve better than that.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there have undoubtedly been great debates, great steps have been taken and efforts have been made in these years, and i would like to thank commissioner schmit in particular for his work in setting up a very active social agenda from the commission, which is essentially aimed at answering the question that we are faced with today: how can we improve access to housing for young people? how can you improve access to work, your ability to develop an autonomous life? and as i said, the proposal for platform workers, the proposal for minimum wages, the proposal also for the control of holiday housing, which this commission has put in place, have been welcomed and very necessary. but it's not enough. when we talk about housing policy, i think we need to be aware of the amount of local realities behind housing. many times in large cities we have problems with inflation in rental prices, but in rural areas we have the problem of absolute homelessness: young people in rural areas who cannot emancipate themselves because there are no housing available in the markets. and therefore, designing broad policies for the whole union is difficult because there are local realities that, in one way or another, determine the problems or the solutions to solve them. in any case, i would point out that the european investment bank could do more. the european investment bank could, within that climate banking campaign, help finance sustainable and green housing for young people.
mr. speaker, it is clear what young people need today: education, work and housing. and that's where we get to the problem, because unfortunately, prices have exploded, and the directors and the apartments and the food and everything else. but today, i'm not going to talk about education, but i'm going to say that if a young person gets a job with his salary, unfortunately, it's almost impossible to get an apartment, and we know that, and that's just a prerequisite for a young person's independent life and starting a family. so the solution should go in two directions. the first is to maximize the wages of young people to increase the amount of wages. and the second way is to include the state in affordable housing. the constitution, of course, says that states should be social, and i think that's where the european union and states should be specifically concerned about their youth. we know where and what models exist, and we're done with the stories. i think it's time to move on to the concrete realization of affordable housing for our youth.
the protection of the family and parenting, especially motherhood, are the most intimate values of every individual and it is not surprising that many countries attribute the highest protection, the constitutional one, to these values. in this respect, we must not forget that matters relating to material family law remain within the competence of the member states. the european union has very limited powers in procedural matters involving citizens of different member states. the eu has no jurisdiction to legislate on key elements in this area, such as the definition of family and parenting. in other words, member states, including those with more expressed values of the traditional family, have the right to determine for themselves what it represents, taking into account their own tradition and specificity. this proposal crosses that line and, de facto, through a process of binding mutual recognition, forces states to give effect on their territory to definitions of families that do not exist in their own legislation. the european union is still a community of states that have the right to decide for themselves on key issues of their identity such as the definition of the family. the attempt to impose a high-level and unified approach on the small door will certainly not contribute to the stability of the eu but can only endanger it. "united in diversity" means that states have the right to decide for themselves on key identity issues, whether you agree with them or not. so let's stop using european institutions to impose our own worldview.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have been asked too often lately: 'do you fight for the environment or do you fight for people in the european parliament? i think it's very bad and very dangerous and the answer must be neither. so it's not there, or it's there, but it has to be there for the environment and for the economy, for farmers, for small and medium-sized businesses, for people, for citizens. and in order to succeed, then it's clear that this must be supported by the state and the european union through funds, because that's the only way we're going to prevent the disintegration of our industry, we're going to prevent the division of society and we're going to prevent, no god, the green plan from failing. for that reason, if we want to leave fossil fuels, and we do, i think the public sector needs to participate more because prices are going wild and of course, otherwise, these questions will be raised more and more often.
