mr president the single market is one of the european union's most important achievements. this has led to a number of important measures to make life easier for european citizens, such as the abolition of the single charge or roaming charges. still, i feel like we have no reason to celebrate. the coronavirus, the war, and the resulting economic crisis have shown that there is still much work to be done. it would be important for the european union to focus on measures that serve the interests of citizens and the development of the economy, rather than on useless ideological debates that challenge the competences of the member states. it is time to usher in an era of increased european competitiveness. in view of global challenges and increased economic competition with the united states, targeted measures are needed. we need to reduce administrative burdens, support small and medium-sized enterprises, and make better use of the opportunities offered by the single market.
in writing. in most european countries and across the eu, the amount of waste generated is increasing, with member states exporting more and more waste. almost half of this goes to countries that treat waste in ways that are not environmentally friendly, thus increasing the damage to the environment. it is therefore particularly important to respond to the negative trends that have become almost universal with a unified action at union level. i welcome and support the fact that the european parliament's current proposals will make exports of waste more restricted and will only be allowed if third countries are willing and able to handle waste in a professional manner. i also think it's particularly important to track waste shipments. it is of particular importance that consignments are liable to be suspended if they cause serious environmental problems in the country of destination. it should be stressed that legislation should not create excessive bureaucracy. simplifying the procedures that have been developed is indeed justified, and i believe that this will make it much easier for waste to return to the circular economy without reducing the level of control required. the waste shipment regulation should further strengthen the fight against illegal waste trafficking, which is one of the most serious forms of environmental crime, as illegal waste shipments potentially represent 30% of waste shipments. it is important to ensure that the rules are properly implemented and monitored, as this is the only way to significantly reduce environmental damage.
madam president, please. human rights have become an international issue over the past 75 years, permeating national and international politics and legislation. adopting a general report on this subject for the countries of the world requires a great deal of care and responsibility. human rights, in contrast to meaning, do not exist in general, but always develop and acquire meaning in the culture of a particular human community. human rights are universal, but they are not uniform. they differ in their views on the relationship between the individual and the community, on gender roles, on the relationship between church and state, on the function and limits of other fundamental rights. we must be careful that when we talk about the universality of human rights, it is not a tool for spreading ideological preferences. i am particularly sorry to see that the report we are discussing today does not mention subsidiarity once.
madam president, i wish you a happy birthday. dear colleagues, the autonomy of universities was perhaps the first freedom to appear in the european civilisation, and it made europe one of the world’s most developed regions over the centuries. it paved the path to the renaissance, enlightenment, the great discoveries, universal rights, democracy and indeed the nation—state. today, the freedom of universities is trampled upon by the orbán regime in hungary when he puts pro-government politicians into the governing seats of universities. you all know our fidesz-delegated fellow mep, lászló trócsányi. did you know that he heads a university in hungary despite being a party politician? it comes hence as no surprise that the council, on the commission’s proposal, banned most hungarian universities from the erasmus and horizon programmes. but what i am asking you is not to punish hungarian students and researchers, instead punish orbán and his government, punish his cronies and impose the same kind of economic sanctions on them as you impose on the operators of putin’s system. it is time to take action and protect our values.
president, vice-president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that sustainable investment for the climate and the environment is needed, and the eib is doing this in a sound way. but that cannot be the only priority. the eib's strategic investments, whether climate-related or not, must also continue to monitor and boost the level of prosperity in our society. the return on climate-related investment in growth and jobs on a net basis is less evident than is too often suggested. is it not becoming increasingly obvious that certain climate-related activities - i am thinking of mining and nuclear industry, for example - should be approached in a more positive way? so i am simply advocating less dogma and more balance to ultimately better serve society, the economy, the climate and prosperity as a whole.
madam president, commissioner, esteemed eib team, colleagues, we all know that banks in general are very important for economic development and for people's social lives, but we are talking about the eib. and yes, the european investment bank has also been through the problems of the pandemic and the crisis, and we all know that everyone has been through this crisis. as a member of the cont commission, however, i always say that it is good to take into account as much as possible and to analyse that all the measures you take have an impact on the economy and especially on smes. and i am glad that you have reported here that you have had loans to smes, but i think you have to consolidate that in the future and increase support for smes, because after all smes are the backbone, we all say in the european economy. and i can't end without saying that i think it was very good that the 2021 agreement with europol was concluded, because it is always cheaper to prevent than to correct afterwards. that is why i think that risk prevention and detection is very important and now i have a recommendation for the commission to be more transparent when you give opinions, what projects are financed by the eib?
president, vice-president, commissioner, the european investment bank (eib) provides over eur 60 billion in soft loans to governments and businesses every year. the aim is to unify the european market and to contribute to eu objectives. i would like to draw attention to two things. the rapporteur calls for a shift in focus to smes, but that is not what the eib was set up for in principle. private banks are currently having difficulty in lending to smes because of european anti-money laundering rules, which make lending costly and complicated. the problem must be addressed at the source. secondly, i am also asking for the imbalance in the supply of credit to be eliminated. in total, 42% of the loans were granted to three countries: italy, france and spain. the geographical distribution of credit should be more balanced in the future. we can tackle these problems all at once by asking the eib to do what it was set up to do, such as financing a high-speed rail network in europe. this contributes to all eu objectives, sustainability and so on, and ensures a balanced lending that benefits everyone.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. yes, we need the european investment bank, and mrs winzig is right. and yes, if she's decided to start her own global assignment division in 2021, that's right. but the task is to implement the objectives of the european partnership policy. and there is a european institution responsible for ensuring that these european funds are also used in the interests of european political objectives, and that is the european parliament. in the report by mr goeren we specifically asked the european investment bank to promote closer cooperation with the african development bank and to report regularly, to consider a joint subsidiary and to report to parliament on the next steps. we believe that this is absolutely necessary in order to make our partnership work more effective. we look forward to dialogue, but it must take place. and now this.
madam president, in this period of budgetary lean cows, the institutions which have made the strategic choice to support the political orientations of the european union are quite naturally necessary. the european investment bank comes first, and i think it is wise to place its action in this perspective. as the world's leading climate bank, the eib has considerable potential to continue to deliver on the energy and digital transitions. the eib is also increasingly involved in financing for developing countries. as the only multilateral bank fully complying with the eu's fundamental rights requirements, it is now called upon to consolidate its leading position in financing the policies of the future. the eib also has a full place in the future development finance architecture, where it plays a unifying role by constantly seeking synergies with other development banks, notably the european bank for reconstruction and development.
madam president, today the european parliament is once again carrying out its task of democratic scrutiny of the activities of the european investment bank, and the report under discussion concerns the year 2021. a very difficult year, still marked by the impact of the pandemic on our societies and economies. but 2021 also reaffirmed the decisive role of the european investment bank in supporting the european economy and european public policies, in particular through emergency financing, support for economic recovery and assistance to small and medium-sized enterprises. the eib must now continue its efforts to ensure a geographical balance in its lending and to pay particular attention to the less attractive regions for investment. at the same time, we must continue to be europe's climate bank. in the previous report, which i was rapporteur for, i advocated the increase in the capital of the european investment bank. i believe that after the invasion of ukraine, this challenge is even more urgent than ever to be able to leverage investment in europe.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank all participants for today’s valuable debate. the cont committee report shows that the eib is overall on a good path, particularly as a frontrunner in climate action and as a role model for other international financial institutions in their quest to become aligned with the paris agreement. nevertheless, there are also new challenges ahead, and some of them have been raised by you here in the debate. this is a warrant for closer—than—ever cooperation with the eib group to ensure that its activities are aligned with the evolving context and eu policy priorities.
vice-president of the eib. – madam president, ladies and gentlemen, members of the european parliament. first, i would like to thank commissioner johansson for her words on the tragic death of the ukrainian minister and send my condolences, of course, on this very tragic accident. secondly, thank you, dear members of the european parliament for your interventions – certainly for the positive reactions, but also for the comments and the questions. i shall try to give some answers to your questions. first of all, there was the suggestion as to what more we can do in education and the educational sector. you know that we are already the largest lender when you speak about education and education investments. since 2002, we have invested eur 2 billion each year and that is in the sector of education infrastructure, research centres, but also vocational and professional training as well as, for example, student housing and student loans. but we shall take the suggestions and proposals into account and see what we can do more in the future. secondly, about small and medium—sized enterprises – several members of this parliament intervened about that – i can assure you that small and medium—sized enterprises are, and remain, a priority for the bank. i’ve already mentioned the eur 45 billion that we invested in 2021. you know that also we provide some loans to banks, and the purpose of these loans is that the banks provide, in their turn, some loans to small and medium—sized enterprises. also i mentioned the very popular product or instrument that we deliver for small and medium—sized enterprises in the sector of innovation – the venture debt product – which is also very important to support small and medium—sized enterprises. and, like the commissioner said, with investeu we can continue our efforts to provide small and medium—sized enterprises with this kind of products and instruments. i think also that it was mentioned by one of the members of the european parliament that we must of course think what we can do more in certain areas like the space area, where we need, of course, guarantees when we provide this kind of instruments. i hope that also the european commission can support us when we talk about that kind of investments in very risky sectors like space. coming to the climate and repowereu, i think that everyone underlined that we have put on the table eur 30 billion extra to stimulate renewable energy, energy efficiency, innovation and so on. i can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not finance new fossil fuel projects. that is very clear in our climate bank roadmap. there is perhaps a misunderstanding about that, but once again i can assure you that we are very clear about this. there were also some reactions about cohesion to say, okay, we have done a lot, and i can tell you that we are very eager to not only to reach our goals, but also to go further than the goals that we put in front. i can tell you that we are above the goals that we have put on the table. this cohesion is also, for us, very important. then ukraine. a lot of interventions underlined that we support ukraine. that’s for sure. i hope that also in the future we can, in cooperation with the european commission, of course, have the opportunity to support also in the future european reconstruction with loans and to help the country. i can tell you that also about migration, and certainly in the countries in the neighbourhood of ukraine, we have provided some loans for refugees and so on. i do not understand very well why this reaction was on the table by some members of the european parliament, but we also support not only countries like poland and a lot of others, but also have a specific instrument to support the costs and the infrastructure for refugees. i think that when we talk about competitiveness and what we are doing, of course we place a lot of emphasis on the impact of our loans – loans to make our companies more competitive and also to create jobs. and i can tell you that now we have a discussion also in the dialogue with the european commission and the council on what we can do in the area of the inflation reduction act of the united states of america, and what role the bank can play in this endeavour and what can be our contribution to find solutions at a at a european level. last but not least, transparency was mentioned. we have done a lot to be very clear, also to this european parliament, that transparency is also for us a very important issue and policy. we have reached an agreement with the european court of auditors. we have a new tripartite agreement. i have met the president of eca. we try to cooperate at a very high and very good level. on this also, i hope in the next reports we can have the support of the european parliament that we have this new tripartite agreement, and with the cooperation of eca and the european parliament we are on the right track. ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, is for me very important to have this debate with you. when you want to have some specific debates in the committees we are there. you call us and we shall be there where you need us.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 19 january 2023. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the war in ukraine has led to a worsening crisis in africa, with soaring food prices, unemployment and rising living costs. all of this is increasing migration and the migratory pressure on europe. the creation of the new african development group of the european investment bank is a new opportunity to support our african partners in finding their own way out of the crises affecting the continent. but it is crucial that the development bank's resources are used locally, in a targeted way, to address the real challenges. this requires the involvement of local partners at an early stage of project design. to be effective, we must have clear objectives. the small family farms that account for some 70% of the continent's agricultural production are crucial to overcoming the current food crisis in africa. we need to empower african farmers to adopt new, modern agricultural technologies. the eib should make available to them appropriate microcredit facilities. and the solution to unemployment is urgent. the young people of africa need a real future, not to be lured into europe with false promises. you have to create the opportunity to thrive in the place. this requires adequate education and training, alongside the creation of jobs. if the european investment bank's branch for new african investments is able to operate along these lines, it can indeed give new impetus to development cooperation between europe and africa.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs sabrina pignedoli, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the protection of the european union's financial interests fight against fraud annual report 2021 (2022/2152 (ini)) (a9-0299/2022).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank on behalf of commissioner hahn, the rapporteur and the members of the committee on budgetary control for this thorough report on the protection of the eu’s financial interests and the fight against fraud for 2021. the eu’s crisis response to the covid—19 pandemic, the war in ukraine and the related energy challenges demonstrate how essential effective eu action is to the lives of eu citizens. the eu budget and nextgenerationeu aim at building resilience and at creating a more secure and sustainable future. we must all strive to ensure that eu funds are spent correctly. by doing so, we not only protect taxpayers’ money, but also our common future. fraud and corruption are damaging to the eu as a whole, whether they occur in member states or in eu institutions. it’s imperative that any allegations are fully investigated so that the eu and our actions do not lose credibility. we have strong tools in place to protect the union’s financial interest. the mandate of olaf includes serious matters relating to the discharge of professional duties, including corruption. olaf carries out administrative investigations into serious misconduct by eu staff and members of the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. the european public prosecutor’s office prosecutes criminal offences affecting the financial interest of the union, including corruption. the union’s staff regulations establish a strict disciplinary system and enable the necessary high protection standards, including for whistle—blowers. as you know, the commission triggered the rule of law conditionality regulation in relation to the protection of the union budget against the consequences of breaches of the rule of law in hungary. this is testament to the importance that the commission attaches to the rule of law and the protection of the eu budget. today’s report focuses on exactly those key areas. first, enhanced operational coordination. close coordination of operational activities and effective harmonisation and transposition of the relevant directives is key. these are directives such as the directive on the protection of the eu’s financial interests, the fifth anti—money laundering directive and the directive on the protection of whistle—blowers. the commission is following up on the corrective measures taken by the member states following the infringement procedures launched over the past years. secondly, digitalisation and interoperability of data. it is clear that the fight against fraud, corruption and conflict of interest must adapt to the digital world. we need tools that enable us to handle increasing amounts of data and foster a cultural change to enable those managing and protecting eu resources to use up—to—date technologies. the targeted adjustment of the financial regulation offers an opportunity to improve the reliability and quality of data, especially on recipients of union funding and transparency on the use of eu funds. the recent commission initiative on vat in the digital age, in particular, the real-time digital reporting of transactions, would be key in protecting the vat revenue source for national and eu budgets. the commission is also revising the action plan to the anti—fraud strategy. the revision will focus on the current multiannual financial framework, the recovery and resilience facility, digitalisation and conflict of interest. thirdly, fighting corruption and organised crime. as announced by president von der leyen during the state of the union address, we will soon present an anti—corruption package this spring. as part of the package, we will set out the priorities of the eu and the actions to fight corruption. we will also propose an update of the eu legislation to ensure that all forms of corruption are criminalised in all member states, that legal persons may also be held responsible for offences, and that these offences incur effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties. all the initiatives that i have mentioned today are key examples of our actions in the fight against fraud. they are part of the tremendous work that goes on to protect crucial aspects of the european project and its funding. thank you for your attention. i look forward to a constructive debate.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 2021 has been an important year for the protection of the financial interests of the european union and has been marked by significant innovations. the eppo has finally started its investigative activities, the first significant results of which already demonstrate the need for its full operational capacity, and the recovery and resilience facility, an important pillar of the union's response to the pandemic crisis, has entered into force, together with the 2021-2027 mff, an unprecedented amount of resources, which requires a strong reinforcement of the activities to prevent and combat irregularities and fraud, including and especially against the risk of infiltration by organised crime. and this is a commitment that must involve everyone, the national authorities, so that they take a really proactive approach in detecting fraud against the european budget, the bodies and agencies of the union, and i am referring to eppo, olaf, eurojust and europol, which already provide a fundamental added value in this area as well, so that they strengthen their collaboration and cooperation even more. all the institutions of the union, including this parliament, and all of us, are called upon to adopt a uniform and decisive approach to transparency in order to combat corruption, illegal lobbying, conflicts of interest and to prevent the so-called revolving doors. the eu's anti-fraud architecture must therefore be further and further strengthened. the exchange of information must be encouraged, the fragmentation and disparity of monitoring and control mechanisms must be overcome, and legislation must be harmonised and standardised, including the need for a new, more modern definition of organised crime, which is truly common at european level and which is actually adequate to prevent criminal groups from taking advantage of the differences between the laws of the member states to infiltrate the legal economy of our countries. protecting the financial interests of the union and the budget of the european union means protecting the rights and interests of european citizens, who are facing a particularly difficult time today because of the economic and financial crisis caused in our countries by the pandemic and then further aggravated by the consequences of the war in ukraine. ensuring that union funds are spent solely to their benefit and in full compliance with the law must be our priority, also in order to preserve citizens' trust in the european institutions. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to thank my fellow rapporteur, mr pignedoli, and the other shadow rapporteurs for their work, in full cooperation with the common objective, shared by the chairman and all the members of the cont committee, of strengthening the protection of the union's financial interests.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, commissioner, colleagues, when it comes to matters of budget control, you very often hear me standing here delivering very impatient and very critical remarks. but this time, let me use this opportunity to not only thank the rapporteur for an excellent job, but also to take a much more positive approach, because the european commission’s recent decision to reform the eu’s blacklist and exclude fraudulent applications from receiving eu contracts is a very important breakthrough. it is also a victory for this parliament. let me add, it is perhaps a bit of a personal legislative success for me, myself and the renew team, because right from the start of this mandate, we have been calling for an effective blacklist. we raised the specific case of viktor orbán’s son—in—law, who continued to receive large amounts of eu money, even though he has a record of fraud, as concluded by the eu’s own investigators. so why aren’t such applicants blacklisted, we kept asking, and we dipped into the legislation and found that the eu indeed does have a blacklist – the so—called early detection and exclusion system – but not for funds jointly managed with member states. so in other words, it failed to cover 80% of the funds. so we raised this problem in letters, we organised a committee hearing, and then the commission agreed with us – which is great – that this glaring loophole needs to be closed. this is just common sense, colleagues. the eu must not give second and third and 11th chances after a proven record of fraud. eu funds are not a right, but a privilege, and those who already prove to be undeserving should not be granted this privilege. i’m very glad that, as a result of the work of the renew team and myself, our eu legislation now reflects this.
the european parliament today wishes to show its full support for president luiz inácio lula da silva, the elected president of brazil, after free and fair elections, and to express its utmost solidarity with him following an attack on the country's main institutions and main powers, which is unprecedented in brazilian democracy. an attack that, moreover, has the same pattern: the pattern of the extreme right trying to delegitimize the institutions. just as lies, misinformation and fake news led the mob in washington to the capitol, the same thing happened in brasilia. it is time to support the research that is being done in the country today. investigations looking for the responsible and the guilty. also with respect to those forces and security bodies which, by action or omission, allowed the attack. also the investigations about the financing of the protesters. we are ready to collaborate with the new authorities of brazil, because now, with lula, brazil is back in the world and needs it as much as the brazilians needed lula to return to the presidency.
mr president, brazil has taken to the streets to defend democracy in the face of extremely serious events never before seen in brazilian history. the coup movement tried to illegally reverse the result of the last presidential election, which gave victory to president lula da silva. supporters of former president bolsonaro stormed and looted the three-power buildings in brasilia, in an unprecedented attack on brazilian democracy. the exercise of democratic rights and freedoms must take place with respect for democratically elected institutions. as president lula has said, political differences cannot justify criminal acts or call into question the results of democratic elections. i would like to reiterate, on behalf of the european parliament, our confidence in the democracy of brazil and the strength of its people, which will prevail against the violence, fascism and the far right which are so damaging to coexistence and peace in the world. democracy has returned to brazil. president lula said yesterday: brazil is tired of much sadness, much hatred and much anger. lula the president, and us with lula.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today i want to tell you a story, a story of a people, a story of a country. they heard of ipiranga's placid shores from a heroic people the roar resounds, and the sun of freedom, in fleeing rays it shone in the sky of the fatherland at that moment if the pledge of this equality we conquered with a strong arm in your bosom, o freedom it challenges our chest to death itself giant by nature you are beautiful, you are strong, you are fearless colossus and your future mirrors that greatness o beloved earth brazil, of eternal love, be the symbol the starry labrum you wear and the laurel green of that flannel peace in the future and glory in the past but if you raise up justice as a strong nail you'll see that a son of yours doesn't run from the fight nor does he fear, who loves you, death itself adored land among a thousand others it's you, brazil o beloved fatherland! of the children of this soil, you are a kind mother beloved country of brazil! god bless you, you're a good mother.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the very serious attack by bolsonaro's supporters on the institutions of brazil is unfortunately a continuation of other incidents in other countries. a situation that is repeated because of a right-wing ideology that does not want to accept the popular vote. i was at the world social forum in salvador de bahia in 2018, where lula spoke and was then imprisoned and hit with accusations that turned out to be a big political plot. today he was re-elected president of brazil, and he is our hope to reunite and reconcile the brazilian people after the disastrous four years of president bolsonaro. the future of brazil, of a great democracy, but also of our planet is at stake, for example in the fight against climate change, defending and preserving the amazon, as bolsonaro has failed to do. so we are and must be, as europe, alongside lula and alongside the brazilian people who must be able to defend their democracy.
mr president, the images of bolsonaro supporters storming brazil’s centre of power were absolutely shocking. this attack was deliberately modelled after the 6 january insurrection in the united states. it was also perpetrated by a far—right mob who refused to accept the results of a democratic election. this attack was also fuelled by unregulated media platforms working as a misinformation machine. colleagues, we must finally open our eyes to the threat of the far—right authoritarian contagion. it is an interconnected global movement, and we need a global movement to counter it. we need to stand in solidarity with democrats in brazil and elsewhere, and we also need to help each other. so let’s start by a globally coordinated regulation of social media platforms. we also need to realise that democratic norms breaking down in one country make democracy vulnerable elsewhere, too. and nowhere is this more relevant than in the european union. in the last decade, the two most rapidly autocratising countries in the world were eu member states, poland and hungary. so in order to help democrats all around the world and to fight the far—right authoritarian contagion, we also need to put our own house in order.
a uachtaráin, commissioner, with the pandemic, and now putin’s callous war on ukraine and even brexit, it’s clear that the global environment is becoming increasingly fractured. as europe faces increasing economic and security challenges, building sustainable partnerships based on shared values is key for the eu’s standing in the global environment. yet over the last decade, other global powers have developed vast networks of trade, transport hubs and energy routes, as well as digital infrastructure all over the world, extending their global influence like roots deepening in the soil. for this reason i welcome the commission’s presentation of the global gateway initiative. through this initiative the eu can work to strengthen our global partnerships on a platform of shared values and with the objective of promoting european priorities in digital, climate, transport and health policy. it is welcome that the commission is now approaching its international partnerships with a strategic mindset. i particularly welcome the facts of the focus on supporting climate mitigation in low— and middle—income countries. i attended cop 27 late last year, and the topic of climate mitigation and loss and damage was high on the agenda. the commission’s intention to invest in clean energy and green technology in developing countries can also provide us in the eu with the opportunity to diversify our energy supply chains and move away from fossil fuel imports. another point i would like to emphasise is the promotion of connectivity with the asean countries. as a member of the asean delegation, i understand the potential eu—asean partnerships provide. asia is home to the world’s largest populations and fastest—growing economies. deepening relations with this bloc will strengthen economic resilience, grow competitiveness and diversify our supply chains.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this plenary week has a story: on monday we celebrated the 30th anniversary of our european single market, and on wednesday we had a debate on the european union's global competitiveness and our response to the american inflation reduction act. today we are discussing the global gateway initiative. what's the story? what's holding it together? the single market, ladies and gentlemen, is a political peace project which brings people together by breaking down barriers between the states in the economic area. our global competitiveness in response to the inflation reduction act cannot be achieved by renationalizing economic policy, it cannot be achieved by aid competition which leads only to the survival of the fittest in our internal market. the 'global gateway' initiative is the understanding of european economic policy in external relations based on cooperation and commitment to values. this is the only way the global gateway initiative will become a counter-proposal to china's silk road initiative. it's not something that can be achieved by blindly copying and pasting what the chinese are doing there. our approach is to educate our partners, not to make them dependent. what does that mean? what does that mean? yes, investments in critical infrastructure. but no, to create dependencies and to drive us into debt traps. in the delegation of the european union for relations with china we have only recently become aware of the recklessness with which china invests in our communities and makes them dependent. this is precisely what we are not trying to achieve, even if we are trying to compete with china. no to partnership agreements that gag. yes, to a system competition, but this system competition does not mean "with us you get more money out". this system competition is called "we support you so that you can come to an equal level and not just depend on others, but can train yourself independently with values".
mr president, as much as anyone might criticise the eu’s global gateway, the strategy and the concept are just brilliant. i mean, sustainable, trusted connections that bring free trade prosperity to all, and delivering all of that to the benefit of the eu’s geopolitical goals. well done! sure, there has been heavy, heavy criticism from the european court of auditors, which has to be taken extremely seriously, and parliament will continue to do so and scrutinise the plans from the commission. but all of that, all of the criticism, all of the cynicism, also today, will immediately dissolve, commissioner, when the eu delivers, when the eu will become world champion in execution. it’s not about more strategy, it’s not about new wine in new wine skins. it’s about execution. execution is the strategy. show procreative power, show executive power and deliver projects, and show us in practice how rare earth materials strategy is hand—in—hand executed with the development goals.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. we are rushing headlong into a climate crisis, and this is causing a very large proportion of us, and it's already really noticeable, and it's particularly noticeable in the global south. that is why it is our duty to support, especially in the global south, that they do not maneuver into the same fossil dependency that we have. that is where the 300 billion euros planned for the global gateway are, of course, a huge opportunity to achieve this. but we also have to ensure that this money does not lead to human rights violations in the global south, because infrastructure projects, unfortunately, very often tend to do just that. are there complaint mechanisms, are there compensation mechanisms in these very projects? there's no real answer to that right now. but above all we must ensure that we promote industrialisation in the countries and do not always reduce them to being just suppliers of raw materials. we need to do this together with local civil society, for example by investing in battery production in uganda.
mr president, allow me to make a few comments on this extremely important subject. i think the global gateway project is extremely important, not only because we are implementing or wanting to implement our international solidarity with poorer countries, but mainly because i see the geopolitical significance there. if the european union is to be a global player in the future, it needs projects like this. this is simply the reality, and we are in clear competition with, for example, the china that has been mentioned many times, which has been investing very recklessly in different regions of the world for many years - more than a decade - and thereby strengthening its geopolitical importance. we need to be a strong global player in this, clearly, offering smart investments in different parts of the world. we need to know where we're investing, why we're investing. as has been said, our investments should not lead to our partner becoming dependent on us. they should not lead to increased influence and economic dependence, but to building partnerships. that's the difference between us and authoritarian regimes like china. and that's also the difference between our program and the programs that china is implementing. we have to add. it must be said, colleagues, that after a year the project is not developing much and so far we are a bit of a laughing stock for chinese competitors, for example. i therefore ask the commission to do its utmost to ensure that these projects are actually launched. to offer simple, un-bureaucratic projects and to be able to really invest the 300 billion euros quickly and efficiently. still, we must admit that while this sum may seem enormous, it is not so great in the face of the world's global problems. experts have calculated that 150 billion euros a year would be needed for africa alone. let's get on with it, please, it's extremely important.
mr president, if there is one word to describe the moment we live in, i would go with ‘polycrisis’, because we need to fight simultaneous challenges like climate change, the pandemic, the war and democratic backsliding. what these crises have in common is that they require investment to reduce emissions, to build resilience for pandemics, to create access to education, not only in europe, but globally. although china started its global investment drive long before we did, it also draws criticism, and for a reason. problems of corruption, disregard for human rights and the environment are just obviously glaring, and the global gateway initiative has been, i believe, a strong response to this polycrisis and also a clear alternative. one year after its launch, we can say that our spending has become more coherent and more strategic. yes, there is space for improvement, and its volume needs to be increased drastically. the eu jargon of unlocking and leveraging funds for me very often only refers to repackaging existing money, and that is a problem. we see a shocking investment gap where lower income countries fall behind. it is in europe’s own interest to counter that and offer support, to be there. so, this is our job now.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the commission welcomes the rapid progress you have made on this proposal. we appreciate that the european parliament and the council share the main objectives of our proposal to create a high standard of transparency of political advertising and to limit the use of potential opaque and data—hungry targeting techniques. we need these rules in place ahead of the 2024 parliament elections. preserving the articulation between the internal-market and data-protection acquis established in the commission’s proposal is essential to guarantee legal certainty and effective protection of individual rights. this will guarantee compliance with the existing acquis and ensure proportionality. we also should pay attention to expression of political debate and ensure individual rights to receive information about politics. we are all convinced that union—level measures are needed to address the challenges associated with a rapidly evolving, diverse digital and multimedia landscape. new technologies offer many benefits to enhance the democratic debate, but can be misused, also for foreign interference and disinformation. we all can name examples of undue campaign methods affecting results of various elections – a stark warning to limit the tools that allow this to happen. the commission’s proposal was carefully calibrated to balance the rights and interests involved in this sensitive area. its scope is carefully defined to preserve member state competence to organise elections and regulate political parties and the different checks and balances in our national democratic traditions, while making sure that legal certainty is provided and political ads with specific common measures. we drafted this regulation with an aim to enable an unprecedented high standard of transparency into provision of political advertising. the regulation also offers individuals stronger protection of personal data when political advertising is targeted and amplified. finally, the proposal prevents the use of potentially problematic targeting techniques. vice-president jourová will work with you and the council to find suitable solutions and achieve rapid agreement in good time ahead of the electoral campaign.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals. opinion-making on the internet, manipulative messages, fake news and social bots the use of artificial intelligence can indeed influence elections and votes. we saw that with cambridge analytica. the regulation on the transparency and targeting of political advertising is intended to prevent such electoral manipulation in the future. the rules should be designed in such a way that future elections can still be held, and i would like to make a critical point here: i think that the rules should not apply to local elections. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the legislative process. the new rules will therefore have to be followed in future in every mayoral, municipal, county and district election. i don't think that's a good idea. local politicians are usually volunteers and will probably not be the target of electoral manipulation. that is why they should be relieved of bureaucratic constraints.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, this regulation aims to ensure the transparency of electoral processes by harmonising political advertising services to protect our democracies and our citizens. with it we adopted an instrument based on the digital services act, which establishes transparency obligations on these services. we also minimize attempts at foreign interference, which we have already seen from some countries, like russia. far from establishing prohibitions, we are seeking to strengthen the transparency obligations which must be met by anyone wishing to advertise politically in the european union. with the obligation to publish who is behind the ad, who financed it and for how much, and what techniques have been used to run it, we will avoid scandals like the one of cambridge analytica. it will be possible to campaign as before, but the means used will have to be recorded. it will also be possible to do so directly in any member state, since the barriers that exist today are being removed. this is particularly important for the european elections. i hope that the majority of this house will support the text so that we can begin the tripartite dialogues with a strong position from this parliament. it will be important to maintain the rigorousness, taking the digital services act as a reference and without stepping on other existing legislation, such as the general data protection regulation, at european level, nor entering into the electoral legislation of each member state. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr sandro gozi, and the other rapporteurs for the constructive spirit we have maintained during the negotiations. we must all share the same objective: to move towards a more democratic, more transparent and stronger europe in the face of those who want to weaken our democracies.
on behalf of the renew group. - madam president! - i have to go. first of all, i would like to thank the renew europe meps, sandro gozi and the absent annie donáth, who had to stay in budapest because she has a small child, and the co-rapporteurs from the other political groups for their great commitment to this regulation. i am glad that we, as the european union, are finally responding properly to the cambridge analytica scandal. the proposed rules will better protect citizens from unwanted advertising. our data, including our very personal data, will be much better protected. they will be safer from the misinformation that is rampant on social media. i also hope and wish that this regulation will also curb the hype and manipulation of voters that is so destructive to our societies today. this regulation is absolutely necessary to ensure that democratic competition is finally fully fair and that what happened in the united states with the election of trump and the brexit referendum in the united kingdom is never repeated in the european union.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, dear colleagues, during today’s debate i’ve heard plenty about transparency and the need to better protect citizens from foreign actors that might interfere in elections. and i of course agree with these points. citizens have the right to know who the sponsors of political advertising are. but while you portray a success story of the parliament negotiations, i feel some key points are still missing. transparency does not mean creating a framework which incentivises big online platforms to remove content out of a fear of liability. it does not mean, either, asking platforms to decide which ads are political or not, while complaining that they have too much power. and finally, protecting citizens is not equal to introducing a general monitoring obligation that introduces constant surveillance of the online content by online actors. i urge all members to support our amendments that improve the parliament’s position and defend fundamental freedoms in the eu.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, it is very positive that we have managed to reach agreement on this draft regulation, despite the reservations and objections of the more conservative wing of the house. it is very important that this agreement was reached despite the reactions of the big platforms, who want to monopolize information and advertising on the internet and want to treat citizens not as real citizens who can decide for themselves but simply as numbers or money. all of this is not enough. we must also promote positive measures, help the small media, the independent media in each country to withstand the competition from the big platforms and to transparently and democratically promote the political platforms of the parties, so that citizens can vote freely.
president, commissioner, colleagues, transparency and clear rules will now provide clarity on who sponsors political ads, why users see them, and greater access to data for investigative journalism. just last month, flemish researchers showed that political parties in my country are spending record amounts of money on social media advertising, and are by far the most successful in the european union. with the agreement we are voting on tomorrow, we can end the era in which social media platforms unsolicitedly - and often unbeknownst to users - collect vast amounts of voter data to influence voting behaviour, or worse, to pit groups of people against each other. political advertising directed at minors or based on sensitive data has no place in the european union. i am convinced that this will be an important step forward to better protect our democracies in the run-up to all the elections in 2024. local, regional, national and european.
madam president, colleagues, how many political advertisements of different political groups do you see in your timeline daily? in fact, i’ve counted and all the ads on my instagram account came from just three political parties, while in the netherlands we have at least 20. so why is that? in a proper functioning democracy, the voter decides. so no tracking. the voter decides on what data to share for political ads, but also limited to no targeting. indeed, it is segmentation with different messages to different groups of voters that give ample opportunities for manipulation and for polarisation, based sometimes on the most sensitive personal data such as religion, ethnic background and age. those ads can sow division and hate. so, that is why we need finally to make political ads subject to strict data protection, in order to avoid another cambridge analytica, to prevent another trump campaign targeting black voters and to ensure that, indeed, the voter decides.
madam president, dear colleagues, i am very glad that the cambridge analytica scandal, the brexit campaign, the trump campaigns, finally served as a wake-up call for the european union. because social media platforms can give malign actors a powerful tool to undermine our democracies; they can open the door to foreign interference, they can amplify misinformation and propaganda, and they can be used to stoke up hatred and divide our societies. and in both of these cases, the practice called micro-targeting was a very big part of the problem. tailoring messages to audiences, of course, can be legitimate, but gathering sensitive data without voters’ consent and then exploiting this to manipulate them is certainly not. so, i am very thankful for the amazing work of sandro gozi and anna donáth, because this regulation is so very important and especially the transparency requirements. voters have the right to know who is trying to persuade them and how, so that persuasion does not become illegitimate manipulation. because democracy is so much more than drawing an ‘x’ at the ballot box; it depends on a meaningful public debate and an informed electorate – also in the online space.
in writing. by regulating political advertising, the real aim of the brussels bureaucracy is to intervene in the electoral campaigns of the member states and influence their outcome, and to limit the expression of opinions it does not like. the really important objectives of preserving the integrity of the european elections and transparency are unfortunately hidden behind a false intention. the draft regulation takes no account of national interests and allows eu bodies to say what is acceptable and what is not during a political campaign. this is yet another example of stealthy powers that infringe the sovereignty of the member states. it is sad that the european union is once again concerned with how to take away powers from the member states instead of investigating its own corruption scandals. in the political crisis caused by the corruption scandals in brussels, brussels should not be looking to regulate the member states again.
madam president, dear colleagues, the people of ukraine expressed unequivocally their desire to join the community of western democracies instead of moscow’s tyranny. europe was right to hear that desire and grant candidate status to ukraine. however, full membership has conditions that need to be fulfilled. sustainable peace and stability need to be attained prior to integration in order to avoid taking on a divided country with internal division. we have had that negative experience before and suffered the consequences. thus, sustainable peace and stability in ukraine have two prerequisites. restoring the territorial integrity of ukraine in full: the eu needs to help ukraine to win this war with all it has. second, ukraine needs to reach out to ethnic minorities living in its territory – all of them – and guarantee their rights as ukrainian citizens and ethnic minorities. the eu should support that endeavour by providing best practices to ukraine and helping the transition.
in writing. the problems encountered in the participation of eu citizens established in other member states in european parliament elections should be reviewed and cooperation at eu level pursued. such is the importance of non-discriminatory regulation and practice, providing adequate information to voters, reducing unnecessary administrative barriers and preventing double voting. the report welcomes the fact that practical difficulties in the exercise of the right to vote for persons with disabilities are addressed, and that their elimination is of paramount importance for the effective realisation of universal and equal suffrage. the proposal therefore raises relevant issues and it is regrettable that the draft position of the european parliament takes a more ideological approach to the problem, misinterpreting the principle of ever closer unity. the rapporteur wishes to reinforce the concept of a centralised, uniformised, federal europe, which puts national sovereignty in the background, in a report that is not linked to the proposal for a reform of electoral law. needlessly, out of political bias and ignoring the position of a significant part of the house, he refers to the introduction of the single electoral district, that is, transnational lists. the report should deal more with the real practical problems facing the electorate, taking into account views differing from the rapporteur's, as the principle of pluralism would require. for me, this would mean the creation of an ever closer union between the peoples of europe, a fruitful cooperation instead of unnecessary demands for institutional reform.
madam president, please. the proposal before us means in practice that in 13 years' time no new petrol and diesel cars will be allowed to be marketed in the union. this is a very short time, knowing that there is no adequate charging infrastructure or viable demand to start the new zero-carbon era. if a significant proportion of citizens with lower incomes cannot afford to buy a new car, the average age of motor vehicles will continue to increase. old, low-quality cars will flood the roads. it should also be said that internal combustion engines do have room for further development, as advanced synthetic fuels can bring about a change in this area. the commission therefore has a further task, and i hope that it will take the necessary steps as soon as possible, because without alternatives the implementation of this proposal will remain a mere vision.
mr president, most of us are rightly appalled by the official position of hungary on this conflict. the pro-russian propaganda, the undisguised rooting for the aggressor by prime minister orbán, and the recent visit of foreign minister szijjártó to minsk, while cynically talking about peace with the aggressor and its allied regime. however, don't let that mislead you vis-à-vis the hungarian people. a majority of hungarians know that ukraine's fate today and our legacy of 1956 are analogous. the story of both nations fighting for their freedom against russian aggression is the same. and just like in 1956, when official hungary, the regime, rooted for the russians, it was the voice of the people that mattered and what the world remembers today. and finally, while europe was numb and silent to the hungarian cause, delaying by decades the potential reunification of our continent. today, it understands the call of history. and it is also brave enough to act.
(the beginning of the speech is heard off the microphone) ...for seventy years he has not been in such a weakened and vulnerable state as he is now. hundreds of thousands of people are at risk of unemployment. this is partly due to brussels' ill-considered policies and misguided sanctions. the commission's new package is unfortunately not suited to address this situation. increasing bureaucracy, various penalties and regulations do not help, but harm. they're driving out the most advanced companies and stifling small businesses. it is a serious mistake that brussels' industrial protection proposals target only future-oriented technologies, leaving millions of people working in traditional industries behind. the commission should now focus on protecting jobs and improving competitiveness. parliament should stop blocking free trade agreements and finally disburse the funds due to hungary and poland immediately, thus ensuring a level playing field in the internal market.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european commission believes that its new industrial strategy has found a solution to the inflation reduction act. if the european commission's communication is indeed the answer, then i must say that it is not very creative. the new strategy is based on two ideas: firstly, the commission is shifting the essential elements of its work programme under new headings, which means that we no longer have old wine in new bottles. but if you just change the headlines and don't change the content, that's not an answer. and the second idea of the commission is, unfortunately, also the old-fashioned idea of solving or fighting all the problems of spending money, whether it be new subsidy programmes or - as some are suggesting - new debt-financed special measures. neither of us is getting anywhere. what we really need is less red tape, lower energy costs, well-trained workers. that would be the right answer.
as you will know, dear colleagues, this morning there was a security incident in the hemicycle that led to the suspension of the session for a short while. the situation is as follows: individuals having entered as visitors staged a protest from the visitors’ gallery and refused to leave. there was a concern that they would cause harm to themselves as part of their protest, but i am pleased to tell you that the situation was resolved peacefully, nobody was hurt and no one was injured. all the protestors are now out of parliament’s premises. i would like to say that i am very grateful to all the services for the quick and professional handling of the situation. our security teams worked extremely well under difficult conditions. i would also like to very much thank our colleagues, members of the european parliament giuliano pisapia, evin incir, sergey lagodinsky and ilhan kyuchyuk, who joined me in helping to keep the situation calm. so thank you very much. this parliament stands proudly for freedom of expression and the right to protest, but any demonstration must always respect our rules and procedures, public safety and not disrupt our democratic debates. i will not give their cause the publicity that they were looking for. this is not the way to get the attention of the european parliament. i am proud that we are an open and accessible parliament, but we debate, we discuss and we decide peacefully, calmly and not under threat. i have asked for a full report and i will keep you informed.
after the vote, which will be chaired by our colleague, vice-president silva pereira, we will resume with the debate interrupted this morning. and regarding the remaining debates, in accordance with rule 158(2) and with the agreement of the political groups, i would like to propose to the house to postpone the debates on the commission statement on ‘the further repression against the people of belarus, in particular the cases of andrzej poczobut and ales bialiatski’ and the commission statement on ‘developing an eu cycling strategy’ to thursday morning. as a result, the sitting will start at 08:30. in addition, the debates on the commission statement on ‘cross-border adoptions – the need for more transparency and international cooperation’ and the oral questions on ‘adequate minimum income ensuring active inclusion’ are postponed to the march i part-session. are there any objections? i don’t see that to be the case. therefore, these changes are adopted.
mr president, i would like to have a point of order according to rule 195 of the rules of procedure based on annex ii’s code of appropriate behaviour. it prohibits this disrespectful conduct in this house and, by analogy, it is also applicable to commissioners when they address this plenary. yesterday, commissioner olivér várhelyi addressed our chamber then took his seat and said, i quote, ‘how many idiots are left?’. he has since issued a statement saying he was misunderstood. instead of issuing a full public apology like he should have, he, in a signature cynical move, said he was sorry we misunderstood him. honestly, there are very, very few people who believe him. in fact, he was referring to elected representatives in this house whose job is to hold the commission accountable. of course, we are not surprised that viktor orbán’s appointee has a contempt for democratic processes, but this is not his cushy, illiberal regime, this house does not operate this way. this was yet another example that shows that the commissioner is unfit to do his job. so we call on the commission president, as we already did at the last plenary, to have a very long overdue investigation into the many allegations of misconduct by commissioner várhelyi, particularly around his dealings in the balkans region. and let me remind you, the treaties very clearly state that commissioners shall act in the european interest and in full independence, and if misconduct is proven, they must resign.
mr president, under rule 137 of our procedures, i inform you that commissioner várhelyi has labelled members of the european parliament ‘idiots’. after answering a question from a member, when he took his seat, you can clearly hear him saying, ‘how many other idiots are still left?’ this is an unprecedented and brutal insult to the parliament representing 450 million european citizens. it is particularly unacceptable for the integrity of the parliament to be violated by a high—ranking leader of another eu institution, the european commission. it’s no surprise that várhelyi was nominated by prime minister viktor orbán. they both despise the parliament and democracy. now it’s up to us to decide whether orbán is and will be allowed into this chamber. we call on the president to take strong action to have commissioner várhelyi removed, especially because his fake apology turned the blame back onto our parliament.
in writing. increased bureaucracy, penalties and regulations do not help but harm. they're driving out the most advanced companies and stifling small businesses. it is unacceptable that the commission's proposals would effectively leave millions of europeans in traditional industries unemployed. the commission should now focus on protecting jobs and improving competitiveness rather than making ideological declarations. and parliament should stop blocking free trade agreements. while energy prices in europe are skyrocketing, america is attracting investors with paradise conditions. if our big companies move overseas, european smes will have nowhere to go. the european response, unfortunately, came too late and did not offer an effective solution. the commission should swiftly approve member state projects and pay the money due to them. unfortunately, only 28% of the recovery funds have been spent so far. free trade and increased competitiveness are the only ways to put europe back on the map.
i'm the editor. the situation in eswatini, the only country with an absolute monarchy in africa and one of the last absolute monarchies in the world, is extremely serious. on 21 january 2023, thulani maseko, a prominent human rights lawyer and critic of absolute monarchy, known for his efforts to promote democracy, the rule of law, good governance and human rights, was assassinated by unknown gunmen in his home. this happened hours after king mswati iii made public threats against members of the pro-democracy movement. from 2021 onwards, protests began demanding democratic reforms. the king's government has retaliated with arbitrary arrests, harassment, threats and abductions of journalists, human rights defenders, political figures, as well as with the shutdown of the internet and the banning of demonstrations. democracy, the rule of law and human rights are fundamental values of the european union, the european parliament and the european people's party. we, as democratically elected members of the european parliament, must strongly condemn the unlawful killing and must call for an independent and impartial, internationally supported investigation in a direct, thorough and transparent manner. we must also condemn the human rights violations in the country. it is necessary to urge the eswatini authorities to respect human rights, democracy and the rule of law and to work urgently and as a priority for national reconciliation and lasting peace.
author. – madam president, dear colleagues, with this resolution, the european parliament pays tribute to thulani maseko. he was a courageous fighter for democracy, a human rights lawyer, and a beacon of hope for the people of eswatini, who yearn for a free society. last month, he was brutally assassinated. he was shot in his own living room in front of his wife and small children. this happened mere hours after king mswati iii openly threatened the pro-democracy movement. this house condemns the heinous crime and demands that the eswatini authorities conduct an impartial investigation to bring perpetrators to justice. but also, to honour the legacy of this great man, we need more than just words. we must immediately review any financial support issued to the kingdom of eswatini and to make sure that these funds are not abused by a blatantly corrupt criminal regime. while history will forget his cowardly murderers, thulani maseko’s name will live on forever. it will continue to inspire all of us in the universal struggle for freedom and justice.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. i'm not going to let you do this. navalny is not the only one, but navalny is the only one. all the more reason to appreciate his suffering, which we've been hearing about today. i remember when we had his daughter in our parliament, and then his wife a few months later. they were with us physically, though in spirit and heart they were with their father and husband. we're talking about the war in eastern europe today. we're thinking about what's going to happen after the war. will there be time in russia for navalny and those who believe in democracy? is it going to be another time, a time of someone worse than putin. in solidarity with navalny, we send our solidarity to those russians who want freedom. there may not be many of them, but they need to feel our solidarity over and above the divisions.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, dear colleagues, the whole world knows that alexey navalny sits in a prison cell for one reason, and one reason only: vladimir putin is a coward. he is afraid of real opposition voices – he doesn’t even have the courage to play hockey games against real opponents. so put this in contrast with alexey navalny, the embodiment of courage, who returned to russia after the regime tried to poison him, and who just does not give up. but we have all seen the reports and pictures; alexey navalny needs our help and time is running out. the eu must use its full diplomatic and economic leverage to push for his immediate release. so every time a european diplomat meets a russian counterpart, the discussion, among many, many other topics, must include two demands: allow navalny to see an independent medical expert and allow navalny to see his lawyer in confidentiality. so in other words, stop violating russia’s own laws. the world is watching and we cannot stand by while navalny’s health is deteriorating. we have to do something. let’s act together.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. tackling climate change is an urgent challenge. effective environmental protection measures are essential, but one of the proposals before us could be the culprit for farmers and foresters, as the newly defined large-scale reduction of agricultural emissions would require measures such as restricting the use of fertilisers or reducing livestock numbers and changing the food consumption habits of the population. i'm not going to tell you. our common goal is to transform the eu into a community with a modern and competitive economy and an environmentally conscious society, but not in this way. our farmers, our forests deserve better, and now they face significant challenges once again. instead of irresponsibly sharing the burden, we expect achievable goals.
madam president, the police officer. the rapid and secure use of data is one of the keys to economic development in the union. this proposal is an important step towards more efficient and transparent data sharing and the digital transition, with the primary objective of protecting the interests of european citizens. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and on the environment in general, and on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and on the environment in particular. i am pleased to see that the proposal protects smes, which are also crucial for the digital transition, in a number of respects, thus helping to achieve a more balanced competition in the market. i am confident that through regulation we can contribute to the creation of an efficient data economy that creates a fair and equal playing field for all stakeholders.
mr president, this house was shocked to the core by the bribery of members of this parliament by qatar. parliament called for immediate action. ngos with links to qatar had to be prevented, because this parliament rightly wants to prevent foreign influence. meanwhile, the eu itself is giving millions of euros to civil society organisations through the eu roadmap for engagement with civil society in georgia, to influence the political and cultural course there. and now that the georgian parliament wants to pass laws to prevent foreign influence, this parliament is shocked to the core. because now the so-called democracy in georgia is in danger. the hypocrisy is sickening. i say to georgia: the european union must do everything to keep the eu out of the country, otherwise georgia will remain a vassal state without identity and sovereignty.
mr president, colleagues, commissioner, the foreign agent law cooked up in vladimir putin’s russia is malicious, cynical and oppressive. its sole purpose is to discredit civil society and to crush dissent. so, no wonder that autocrats all around the world can’t seem to have enough of it. it is copied in nicaragua, belarus and egypt and, sadly, also in the eu. viktor orbán’s government passed an exact replica of this law and it took the european court to strike it down. because, as josep borrell communicated it to the georgian leaders, it is incompatible with eu values. so, we very strongly welcome its withdrawal. our parliament has a very clear message to the pro-european forces in georgia: we see you and we stand with you and we admire your determination to join our european family. the image of a protester in tbilisi waving an eu flag while facing the water cannons is such a powerful symbol, colleagues. it shows how much the european project means for people in accession countries. we should work every day to live up to this and to have a much broader strategy to counter russian influence, because we cannot fight putin without fighting the putinisation of our neighbourhood.
in writing. it has been three years since the united kingdom left european integration. we often miss the island nation, but we respect its citizens' democratic choice with pain. the years since the withdrawal have brought many difficulties. the european union has been tested not just by the loss of one member state but by new and new challenges. the report under consideration would aim to review the experience gained in the three years mentioned. reflection would allow us to draw conclusions on the practical aspects of the new cooperation and to find ways of working more closely together in this difficult situation, despite the previous tensions. it is regrettable that the intention of the rapporteur is significantly different from the intention of the united kingdom to maintain good relations with the european union. while the commission has reached a constructive negotiated agreement with the uk government, the european parliament, for partisan reasons, condemns the island nation. instead of welcoming the emergence of a political agreement in principle on the north sea protocol and a negotiated settlement of the tensions between the union and the united kingdom, parliament is criticising the united kingdom and obstructing the peaceful settlement of the differences. the european parliament, as usual, would like to shine as a teacher rather than, in this case, resort to the option of silence.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the human rights defenders, the brave women and men who stand with those whose rights are being suppressed - they need our protection. the foreign service, the european commission and the eu member states have every reason to examine where we stand with our policy and where we need to improve. mrs neumann is quite right when she calls in her excellent report for the breaking up of silos, for the end of one-sided considerations and for a new policy and new initiatives. when people risk their lives because they are opposed to war and violence, to restrictions on democratic freedoms and, yes, increasingly also to the destruction of the basis of life, our very basis of life in nature, then that is reason enough to review not only our human rights policy but also our trade policy, our economic policy, our entire foreign policy. we therefore welcome the report and hope that it will have as much impact as possible.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, dear colleagues, i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the shadows for the set of bold proposals that we can be really proud of, because human rights defenders are facing increased pressure around the world and it is our responsibility to protect them. we need to defend the defenders. these brave individuals often put their lives on the line to fight for justice, freedom and equality. we often think about them in idealistic terms, but we shouldn’t forget that their work is incredibly hard. threats, harassment and violence are their everyday reality, and women human rights defenders face even greater challenges. they are subjected to gender-based violence and discrimination, and they often feel alone, getting little recognition or support. as we all know, the eu guidelines on human rights defenders have been in place since 2004, but it’s evident that they are not enough. we need to better implement our existing guidelines and we need to go further. and this is what this report is all about. because autocrats are becoming more and more sophisticated. they have taken on with the digital age, for example, they use online harassment and surveillance. we need to catch up to them and we need to finally get ahead of them. and let’s not shy away from bold action. i know that one of the proposals, the provision of multi-entry visa schemes, is sensitive for some colleagues because far-right populists stoke fear and hatred against it. but we are talking about human rights defenders who need to be able to get to a safe place when they are facing harassment and then return to their countries to do their vital work. they need to be able to use the european union as a safe haven. so i urge you to support this report and do our utmost to make these proposals a reality throughout the eu.
there's a blue card for you from mr. rzońca. you won't accept it? mr rzońca, if you wish, you can intervene.
mr montserrat is at liberty not to reply, since he does not wish to do so. let's move on with the discussion.
madam president, dear colleagues, this parliament welcomes the strong and unanimous council conclusions, making it crystal clear that the european union’s support for ukraine is unwavering and that we condemn russian aggression. but colleagues, do you think this message also gets to our citizens? because right now in hungary, just like in the past weeks and months, billboards are spread across the country condemning the european union for putting sanctions on russia. this is a bomb. the brussels sanctions are destroying us. these are the sanctions viktor orbán has voted for as well. outright lies are being spread about the european union and sadly, they are working. recent polls show that 63% of hungarians believe that eu sanctions are to blame for record high inflation – even though hungary’s inflation is twice the eu’s average. far—right anti-european forces are learning this tactic across europe. why don’t the eu institutions stand up against these lies? the council conclusions also highlight that we need to fight putin’s disinformation machine, but one thing the eu has always been reluctant to do is to stand up against disinformation within our union. the eu should start doing that. the future of our european project is at stake.
mr president reducing fluorinated greenhouse gases and ozone-depleting substances is essential to combat climate change and to the health of our citizens. it is important to review the limits currently in force, but any new measures should be proportionate and duly justified. unfortunately, the ep's proposal does not do that. it is important to understand that some applications, such as nuclear power plant cooling, do require these gases, as they can play a central role in achieving the eu's climate goals. i'm not going to tell you. in the current situation, we cannot allow thousands of european jobs to be put at risk by ill-considered eu rules. the transition to a climate-neutral economy must be fair in all respects, and i ask you to put people, workers, at the centre, now and in any future legislative proposal.
in writing. the draft product safety regulation is an important step towards effective consumer protection, which meets the challenges of the modern age. i welcome the proposal which seeks to address a number of challenges facing the area. the increased popularity of online shopping and the continuous technological development present new opportunities but also new risks for consumers. it is therefore crucial that only safe products are available online and offline. it is also important that national authorities have the appropriate tools to ensure that unsafe products can be quickly removed from the market. i consider it a significant achievement that the proposal contains modern rules in this respect. i am confident that this legislation has succeeded in creating an effective safety net for eu consumers to meet the challenges of the digital age.
mr president the commission's latest rule of law report once again makes clear that the hungarian government is not only ignoring the country-specific recommendations, but is continuing to build democracy in hungary using eu funds. this does not mean that the commission can continue to put the hungarian people on the hook again and again and withdraw eu funds because of the crimes of the government, because the hungarian government is taking advantage of this to further stoke anti-eu sentiment in hungarian society, and we have seen this many times where it leads. my fellow members of the house of representatives! we know exactly what stirring the mood and continuous brussels can cause, lest hungary be finally driven out of the european union! that would be a tragedy, not only for hungary, but also for europe. it is no accident that we say to our group, renew europe, that the eu money should be given directly to those who need it most, to those who are meant to receive it, bypassing the hungarian government. hungarian municipalities, businesses and ngos. because it's the only way to ensure that this money isn't stolen and we avoid a huxit.
in writing. the european parliament is not on top of the situation when it deals with the rule of law. it was already clear yesterday when the agenda was adopted that the individual groups, contradicting themselves in a short time and thus becoming ridiculous, decided on the basis of ideological considerations which country's rule of law anomaly they wanted to discuss at the meeting. manfred weber argued at length that the european parliament should deal only with european-level issues, and his group soon backed the contrary, the rule of law debate on individual countries. political interests determine what becomes a systemic or individual rule of law problem, when an issue becomes a european issue rather than a national one, and when it remains a national rule of law problem to be discussed (e.g. police action against protesters in france). this is a clear indication that when the european parliament debates the rule of law, it is based on ideological, political convictions, and the debate itself is therefore discredited. the criticisms of the rule of law in hungary and poland contained in the european parliament resolution to be adopted today can therefore only be regarded as ideological and political attacks, which lack any reality. it is unfortunate that the european parliament's work does not promote european unity. instead of focusing on europe's real problems (competitiveness, ending wars), it puts forward a false agenda that divides rather than unites.
mr president after lengthy negotiations, agreement was reached on the main elements of the eu's climate package. we have waited for this moment for a long time, but our joy is not cloudless. it can be said that while the environmental benefits of some of the proposals are expected to be small, one thing is certain: these measures will lead to a significant increase in energy prices. the adoption of a per capita climate tax, added as part of the emissions trading scheme, will have a particularly adverse impact on european and hungarian families and jeopardise the long-term sustainability of the hungarian emissions reduction programme. brussels' misguided climate policy has already sent energy prices skyrocketing and inflation into overdrive. we don't need any more burdens! but the climate tax will again put a strain on the public purse. the cost of the transition should be borne not by them, but by the big polluters. instead of unrealistic visions that inhibit economic growth, we need real climate action that is environmentally and climate friendly.
in writing. the council of europe and the european union's predecessor were founded at the same time, after the second world war, at the beginning of the cold war, so it is no coincidence that the relationship between the two international organisations is defined by a kind of natural cooperation and partnership. it is essential that the two organisations see each other as partners, as they have an important role to play in europe. the report deals with important issues, of which the protection of national minorities is a priority. on the one hand, it is welcome that their situation is being addressed, but it is also regrettable that the union's role in the protection of national minorities cannot be assessed. even though the contract makes it mandatory. this is well demonstrated by the commission's cynical rejection of the minority safepack european citizens' initiative. we believe it is important for the european union to demonstrate that it does not interpret the provisions of the treaties selectively and arbitrarily, but can act as a defender of the rights of national minorities. unfortunately, the document also calls on the council to ratify the istanbul convention, even though several eu member states have not ratified it. the european union should not put pressure on member states, since the decision to ratify the istanbul treaty is a matter for national competence. in view of this, i cannot accept the report.
in writing. i consider the development of e-government and the objectives set out in the proposal to be important. i believe that keeping the internal market and the public services that support it in step with digital technology is essential for the competitiveness of the single market. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states to enable them to take appropriate measures to ensure that the necessary information is provided to the public. a well-implemented e-government has a number of benefits: it is faster and more cost-effective. in the context of the deployment of digital public services, particular attention should be paid to the acquisition of the necessary digital skills by citizens and to the creation of the technical conditions. i am confident that these aspects, as well as the needs of citizens and smes, will be given priority in the practical implementation of the objectives set out in the proposal.
mr president the mass deportation of children is a form of genocide. so i welcome the decision of the international criminal court, and i think all civilized people should agree with it. however, representatives of the orbán regime, fidesz-kdnp politicians have no problem with vladimir putin's genocidal policy. they are the ones who, while calling themselves friends of the family and lying abroad as depositors of conservative politics, are moving every stone to free vladimir putin and his friends from sanctions, and their foreign minister is going to moscow almost every week. there may be more to be done in the western world to protect children's rights, but in the russian world, children are now facing bombed-out homes, raped mothers, mass graves of fathers and deportations. and orbán and his followers say that's okay. but there is another, a normal hungary, which stands with the victim and condemns the russian aggression.
mr president we condemn the violations of human rights, the rights of children, war crimes and the series of violations of international law. war crimes are not something that can be undone. the hungarian position has been clear since the beginning of the war. we condemn russia's military aggression, violence which is not only a grave violation of international law, but also morally unjustifiable. hungary has always stood on the basis of international law, recognized ukraine's right to self-defense and territorial sovereignty, and provides humanitarian assistance to ukraine, transcarpathia. now, saving lives and helping those who are suffering is our priority. only peace can guarantee that against the prolongation of war. that's why we need a ceasefire, to start negotiations, for a lasting, just peace. we reject inhumanity and injustice. war crimes cannot go uninvestigated and unpunished. the truth must be told!
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the icc warrant for putin confirms what we have known for a while: putin’s terrorist regime uses barbaric methods of war similar to what ukraine and the baltic states endured during the soviet occupation. the arrest warrant, just like russia’s war crimes, has no statute of limitations. putin will now wear this badge for the rest of his life. putin also will have to answer for the atrocities ordered against ukrainian children by russian and wagner commanders giving clear orders to shoot and kill children. the world has now received a signal, loud and clear, that the russian regime is criminal, toxic. the icc warrant once and for all strips the credibility of any remaining efforts to normalise relations with putin and to go back to business as usual. as for the future of deported ukrainian children, the path towards their liberation and return begins with a ukrainian military victory. we must give ukraine everything it needs to win the war.
mr president, colleagues, as we speak, thousands of ukrainian children are held hostage in camps, have been kidnapped and taken to foster care homes against their will. thousands of parents are in unimaginable despair. so i really hope that no part of this house would like to look the other way. sadly, many of our own eu citizens are oblivious to this fact because all they hear is russian propaganda. and this is the reality: 43 camps have already been discovered and who knows how many more will be found. if there was one thing that should unite every single eu government it’s that we cannot let these war criminals go unpunished. we must hold them accountable in front of a tribunal. but yet again, russia’s trojan horse reared its head. when asked about the icc’s arrest warrant, viktor orbán’s head of office said that, in hungary, putin would not be arrested. colleague gál just spoke about how the truth has to be uncovered. so please, colleague gál, convince the hungarian government to execute the icc arrest warrant should the need arise. this is what we owe these innocent children; this is what we owe ukraine; and this is what we owe the entire humanity as europeans.
madam president, russia is a terrorist state. and you don't negotiate with terrorists. terrorists must be punished and caught. i admire the democratic opposition in russia, because in russia, to protest is automatically to go to jail. and that's why vladimir kara-murza or alexei navalny are heroes to me. people who are not afraid and believe that truth and love will prevail over lies and hatred, and go to protest and speak the truth in undemocratic russia. i hear from people very often that russia should be a model for the european union. if people don't want to live in the european union, they should go to russia. let them try to protest and try to express their opinions. vladimir putin is a criminal to me, he is a criminal and as a criminal we must treat him as the european union.
madam president, colleagues, commissioner, we could dismiss this as just another manifestation of universal truth. dictators jail democrats they fear. so putin, a genocidal dictator, jails vladimir kara-murza, a towering lighthouse of democracy for a quarter of a century. normal procedure: strongly worded statement and move on. but that would so miss the mark. it would ignore kara-murza’s humanity, his chilling courage, his fight for truth. today, putin has stolen freedom, not of just one man alone, but of an entire country. putin’s reckoning will come. but until then, commissioner, here’s a list – the list colleague verhofstadt was talking about. it is easy, because the us and the canadian administrations did the nitty—gritty work already. we already sent a letter at 6 april by seven of us across the political spectrum. we initiated it. use the sanctions regime kara-murza fought for to establish. sanction the people responsible for his imprisonment, every single one of them. i give you the list.
madam president, dear colleagues, the kremlin has sentenced vladimir kara-murza to 25 years in jail. he is a journalist, a filmmaker and an activist, husband of yevgeniya, father of three. and for us, he is the embodiment of courage. and what was his crime? he dared to speak the truth about the invasion of ukraine and the unspeakable war crimes committed by russia and its proxies. this is one more milestone as russia descends into authoritarianism. but a quarter century for telling the truth, let that sink in, everybody. but we know that vladimir putin’s oppressive regime will end much sooner because every regime falls one day, and putin’s will, too. but we have to do our own part. the european union has to put its full weight behind vladimir kara-murza, behind every single imprisoned russian political prisoner. we have to use the magnitsky act as soon as possible. let us join the us, let’s join canada, let’s stand up for alexei navalny, let’s stand up for vladimir kara-murza. every time a european diplomat enters the room to meet a russian counterpart, the discussion has to start like this: freedom for vladimir kara-murza, freedom for alexei navalny, unconditionally and immediately.
member of the commission. – madam president, members, the european union strongly condemns the sentencing of the opposition politician and democracy activist vladimir kara-murza to 25 years in prison for simply speaking out against russia’s illegal war of aggression against ukraine. this outrageous court decision clearly demonstrates yet again the political misuse of the judiciary in russia and shows that there is no rule of law in the courtrooms of the country. the so—called trial did not meet the international standards of a fair and public hearing by a competent, impartial and independent tribunal. it is clear that the internal repression in russia is linked to its escalating external aggression. the kremlin is further accelerating the crackdown on the civic space, intensifying pressure on activists, human rights defenders and any voices opposing russia’s illegal war against ukraine. we reaffirm our solidarity with vladimir kara-murza, alexei navalny, ilya yashin and all those many russians who are prosecuted, imprisoned or intimidated for continuing to fight for human rights and for speaking the truth about the regime’s illegal actions. russia must immediately and unconditionally release vladimir kara-murza and all those imprisoned for politically motivated charges. russia should also ensure access to appropriate health care for mr kara-murza and all others in prison. this includes mr navalny, whose health has been reported deteriorating after he had been in the so-called punishment cell. russian authorities are responsible for the safety and for the health of these persons. we have strongly condemned the sanctioning of the opposition politician and democracy activist vladimir kara-murza, and we stand ready to take further action. decisions regarding sanctions are for the council to decide upon.russia must respect its international obligations on human rights. russia must repeal its oppressive legislation, the law censoring truthful information about russia’s war against ukraine and the laws on the so—called foreign agents and undesirable organisations. i join vladimir kara-murza who, in his recent statement at the court, voiced hope that the day will come when the darkness over russia will dissipate.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held tomorrow.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the risk of death penalty and execution of singer yahaya sharif aminu for blasphemy in nigeria (2023/2650(rsp))*._______________* see minutes.
author. madam president, commissioner, we are here today in this house to debate the death sentence for blasphemy against yahaya sharif aminu, a young nigerian singer, for having written, composed and broadcast a song on social media which the islamic court has said is an attack on the prophet muhammad. in the trial he was subjected to, there were several procedural irregularities that he invoked, which allowed the suspension of the sentence in 2022. this is a situation where islamic courts operate in parallel with the state judicial system, handing out death sentences that are not enshrined in law without their legitimacy to do so being called into question. the death penalty in this circumstance is a flagrant violation of the nigerian constitution, international human rights law or even the covenant on civil and political rights, to which nigeria is a party. i therefore call on the nigerian authorities to release yahaya sharif aminu, to drop the blasphemy charges against him and to grant him immediately all the rights that are inherent in his condition until he is released. the blasphemy law, enforced by religious courts in nigeria and some of the regions, is against state laws, against the constitution of nigeria, against international law and against all the rights, freedoms and guarantees that should be recognized and guaranteed by the state to each and every nigerian. i call on the nigerian authorities here today to defend and ensure effectively these rights, freedoms and guarantees of their citizens and strict respect for the national constitution and the conventions and agreements to which it is a signatory. dear nigerian political and judicial leaders, in the name of dignity, justice and respect for the most basic rights of the human condition, i reiterate the call for the immediate release of the musician yahaya sharif aminu, who is literally on death row.
author. – madam president, dear colleagues. yahaya sharif- aminu is a young artist from nigeria. he composed a song and circulated it on whatsapp. some found it blasphemous and an angry mob burned his house down. instead of protecting him, authorities put him in jail and a sharia court sentenced him to death in a matter of months. it is so unconscionable it’s very, very hard to find words for it. the very fact that a person can be sentenced to death just for expressing themselves is a travesty of justice. his sentence was overturned by an appeals court but, instead of letting him free, a retrial has been ordered. with our resolution today, the european parliament will send a very clear message. blasphemy laws are in clear breach of international human rights, in breach of nigeria’s international treaty obligations and also in breach of the country’s very own constitution. this injustice simply cannot stand. the eu should not shy away from using our diplomatic and economic leverage to advocate for this young man, because he did not hurt anyone and he must be free.
mr president i am pleased to see that the european commission is also taking the fight against climate change and the green transition of the continent more seriously. but it must be stressed again and again that the biggest obstacle to a greener europe is the activity of the big polluting companies. therefore, they should bear the costs of the green transition in the first place. direct taxes or direct contributions, as they are the ones primarily responsible for this. that is, not ordinary people, european citizens, pay the costs of the green transition. and the eu must provide even more support to those countries that are particularly hard hit by the transition, because only then, building on european solidarity, can we bring about a green europe, so that the european union becomes the first climate neutral great power.
madam president, mr. chancellor, i would like to thank you for your kind words. your party took a big step half a century ago by declaring an ostpolitik. as a hungarian, i too remember well the achievements of germany in central and eastern europe. but times have changed, and now, the once successful policy has led germany to become completely vulnerable to putin's russia. and in central europe, they have befriended politicians who attack european values and even openly insult your people here in this house, like viktor orbán and his minions. i don't think it was worth it. just as russia is experiencing a change, the zeitenwende, so is central europe. i believe, mr. chancellor, that you are concerned about the interests of german corporations, but the lessons of modern history show that freedom, democracy and solidarity among the peoples of europe are just as important. let's stand together against putin and his european disciples. let's work together to shut down central europe. that's what i'm asking you to do.
i have to say, madam president, murder of women. rape of women. violence against women. circumcision of women. the treatment of women as second-class citizens is all fundamentally unacceptable. all of which should be banned and are banned in the vast majority of civilized countries and all of which should be punished far more severely than is done today in european countries. but there is nothing we can do about it here in the european parliament. it is a national responsibility to ensure that the penal codes are up to date and are as severe as the penalties for the crimes committed justify, and therefore it is a frontal error that we are spending energy on this. when we do so, it is shameful that so little energy is being spent on the harmful impact that islam has had on the status and legal security of women in european countries with the mass immigration that a large part of this house has welcomed, indeed still promotes as part of europe's solutions. when i look at my own country, denmark, there is no doubt that the male chauvinist culture is dominant. where female circumcision is advocated, where girls are sent on re-education to islamic countries in the middle east and north africa, where violence against women is widespread and where, unfortunately, there are also many examples of murder and rape in denmark. fundamentally, the eu must address the fact that islam is a harmful influence not just in general, but particularly in relation to the legal status of women and the rights of girls. (the president agreed to answer a question with a blue card)
i will certainly clarify this according to the rules. i can already see that rule 10(1) could be referred to.
blue card answer. i am not sure that this is the case. first of all, it is strange that the questioner is given so much extra time, but i must be brief. these are not things that are not factually based. the danish statistical office, the official 'danmarks statistik', clearly documents that there is a much higher crime rate from migrants from the middle east and from north africa. i would like to say this to the honourable member and to parliament if you wish to go into the question of the overrepresentation of certain muslim-dominated countries in crime statistics.
we will indeed need to look at whether rule 10, paragraph (1) or (4) could be applied, as ms samira has indicated, as ‘hate speech’.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it's an important day today, as we will have the opportunity to ratify the istanbul convention, the best international instrument we have to combat gender-based violence. that convention says that violence against women is a violation of our human rights. that convention says that violence against women, and gender-based violence, is based on structural inequality. it is simply a sovereign instrument, and it was time for the eu to join. the opponents here on the right, the right-wing nationalists, but also the conservative right, they have forced us to put this off. they don't care about women's rights. you just want to limit our lives, the right to freedom, the right to control our bodies, the right to abortion, contraception, the right to sexual and reproductive health and rights. you want to limit the right to live free from violence, but we're not going to let you stop us. we will take this fight, and now we will finally join the eu in the istanbul convention. this is a first step, but as everyone here knows, this is only a small area of competence for the eu, and it is the national member states that have to do the bulk of the work. it is therefore still a serious matter that six member states, many of which are governed by the right, refuse to accede to and ratify the istanbul convention. do it again and do it right! together with feminists and the women's movement in our member countries, we will stand up for the rights of women, for the rights of girls, and for the rights of lgbtq people to live a life completely free from violence.
firstly, mr president, international agreements are binding, whatever your personal views on them, and women are human beings. they have human rights, including sexual and reproductive health rights. the beijing and istanbul treaties are binding international law. nor can you, because you disagree with the right or left side of the road, break the rules of the road and say that it is a matter of opinion and subsidiarity, and then decide to drive at whatever speed you want, wherever you want. finally, after almost twenty years of waiting, we have the ratification of this istanbul convention here in parliament and the subsequent directive. yes, violence against men is also prohibited. yes, it is in international criminal law, but this concept of violence does not sufficiently recognize the specific form of violence against women, sexual, physical, above all hate speech, mental and psychological and very largely structural violence. that is why we need special legislation to deal with all these forms of violence, including psychological, structural and also hate speech, which has taken place here, and which, mr president, i officially declare and ask you to deal with for your part in the language used here, which i believe meets the criteria for inappropriate behaviour.
i would like to clarify to you now the question of the blue card, with your permission. ‘the president may give the floor to members who indicate, by raising a blue card, their wish to put to another member, during that member’s speech, a question of no longer than half a minute’s duration related to what that member has said’. and now: ‘the president shall only do so if the speaker agrees to the question’. so many of you were right and i was wrong. i was ill—informed. it seems that the focus group proposed that, nevertheless, the member should be able to present the 30—second blue card, but the afco committee has not followed the focus group. so we follow, of course, what the committee has proposed to the rules and the plenary adopted. so you were right and i was wrong. i’m sorry for that. so we will follow that practice from now on, of course.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. it honors you, because we all make mistakes, but mistakes have to be corrected and everything is fine. first of all, i want to say thank you. i would like to thank all the democrats in this house who have fought for many years to see the istanbul convention signed by the eu itself. i would also like to thank our commissioner, helena dalli, very warmly. we wouldn't be where we are without you. i would like to mention points which have nothing to do with the istanbul convention, because we have heard a lot of things which clearly belong there. what's not included? the ever stupid, yesterday's arguments, in our culture or in our tradition, would not be possible to sign the istanbul convention. i'm not gonna take that argument. another argument that must never be allowed to count in the eu is that some member states believe that the church decides what is law and justice in our country. no, it's not the church's decision. in europe, it is not the church that decides what is right and law, but we in the democratic parliament. and thirdly, and this needs to be made very clear again, private violence can never, ever, ever be private. private violence affects society as a whole. that's why we fight it every day, every night, every minute, every second.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. - dear chairman, forgive me for spoiling this apotheosis of yours, promises of emotional blackmail and calling us all fascists who all crumble like soap bubbles at the fact that in no country that ratified the istanbul convention back 12 years has violence decreased. so my question to you is why would all the people in the european union trust you that the upcoming istanbul convention will reduce violence if it hasn't done so anywhere in the last 12 years? and the second question, how do you think the violence in the netherlands, say, will decrease with the fact that ... (the president interrupted the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, since i entered the european parliament in 2014, i have always campaigned for the istanbul convention to be signed first and then ratified. i thought the hard road was over with the signing, but the ratification becomes a bit like the epic journey of ulysses, a real odyssey. the convention is more necessary than ever. the events that are shaking the world have increased immigration in europe, and we know well the situation in landing countries like italy, left alone to deal with a phenomenon that is constantly increasing. in a multicultural context like the one we live in today, it is important to have a homogeneous legislation, which establishes minimum standards for governments in preventing and condemning violence against women, because for some cultures, even today, women have no rights, they can be beaten, they can be raped, they can be stuffed and given in marriage as a child. i think of the pakistani girl who was murdered in italy for refusing an arranged marriage or the girl who was raped at the station a few days ago by a moroccan in milan, or the policewoman who was raped in naples at the end of her shift by a bengali, or the 15-year-old girl who was raped by second-generation african immigrants at the democratic party party. the rapists have fled, untraceable, and the left has been marked by deafening silence. the ratification of the convention sends a clear message to all these people: in europe, women have rights, in europe, women are protected, in europe, you will not go unpunished. we have fought for decades for our rights and we have no intention of backing down. (the speaker agrees to answer a blue card question)
blue-card question. – first of all, chair, i would like to report this as a form of hate speech, and i want you to look into it, because the way that groups of people are described amounts to a danger to them and fuels hate in this house. it cannot be accepted. secondly, i must say that today we are happy that the epp group apparently will support in the vote tomorrow that the eu is adhering to the istanbul convention. but for many years the epp was against, and today we see how they look to the extreme right to make alliances and coalitions. and the extreme right – those are the people that want to annihilate women’s rights and gender equality and lgbti rights. so i’m just asking the epp: what will you do? there are six countries – in most of them the epp is in power – that haven’t ratified the istanbul convention. what are you doing to make sure that we can actually fight against violence against women, not only in the european parliament, but also in your national countries, which belong to your group? what are you doing?
answer to a blue-card question. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the fact that the european parliament has not yet been consulted on the matter. i have never backed down personally, and you can see that from the recordings of the european parliament. that said, you can't tell someone, a little girl who's been raped or someone who's being murdered, you can't tell them that you have to make a difference between colors, because that's what happens. in italy a young girl was brutally murdered because she did not want to marry and we cannot be radical chic about that. politics is not about radical chic, politics is about protecting citizens, protecting women and protecting the defenseless. that's why we're here, and i don't do the politics of radical chic. (the speaker rejects a 'blue card' question by alice kuhnke)
i would just request that you respect the 30—second rule on the blue—cards please – both the one who poses the blue-card and the one who gives the answer.
madam president, please. it is time for the european union to act as a strong, unified superpower to defend its core values. the istanbul convention is a clear statement against violence against women, which the union has not been able to ratify for the past six years, partly because of the hungarian government's blockade. despite the fact that one in five women in hungary has been physically abused in their relationship at some point in their lives. of course, what can we expect from a government that uses rubber batons and tear gas against students who are protesting for their own future? the union cannot align itself with governments that do not care about the security of their own citizens. first of all, with due respect for the judgment of the european court of justice, we must vote for the approval of the istanbul convention at eu level, because the protection of european fundamental values is not a matter of choice. they make the union what is for us one of the most important, one of the freest places, and so we can finally set an example for countries outside the union.
the rapporteur is the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. madam president, i have to ask you to leave. more and more consumers are looking to choose an environmentally friendly product or service, but the good intentions are not enough if some companies keep promising only marketing. unfortunately, the phenomenon of painting green has recently become more widespread, which is why it is particularly important to combat this practice. the european parliament's committee on the environment supported my resolution by a large majority and mrs borzan incorporated the main proposals of our committee into her report, for which i thank her. now, with our joint proposals, we can work together to ban misleading green paint. we no longer allow businesses that claim to be environmentally friendly when they don't actually do so, or that make unjustifiable claims about our products and services. it is essential to avoid the misuse of double quality and the use of unproven, overly generic claims and labels such as 'eco-friendly', 'bio-based', 'carbon neutral' or 'climate friendly'. in addition, consumers should be informed of the guaranteed durability of the products. all in all, more and more companies and brands are now really embracing sustainability, and the role of greening is being valued. to strengthen consumer confidence, effective regulation can strengthen the credibility of any genuine corporate greening. our amendments are designed to provide legal certainty for traders and to facilitate the settlement of green painting and premature obsolescence cases. the green product must be truly green. let's continue to walk the green path together and end the bad practice of painting green.
in writing. in december, one of the worst corruption scandals in the history of the european parliament came to light, shocking the european public. the belgian authorities have initiated criminal proceedings against several former and current members of the european parliament. the confidence of the electorate in the transparent and democratic functioning of the eu has been irreparably shaken. in order to strengthen transparency and accountability, it would be essential to carry out genuine, in-depth reforms both in the european parliament and in the union's institutional system. it is shocking that, despite this, this report proposes bureaucratic rules disguised as ethics, rather than tackling the corruption in the european parliament, and distracts from the real problem. by adopting solutions instead of solutions, it trivializes the seriousness of the european parliament's corruption case. the problem for the persons concerned was not that they had not filled in tables on the official website of the european parliament or that the definition of conflict of interest was not sufficiently long, but that they had been the subject of a well-founded suspicion of criminal offences in the course of their parliamentary activities. the fact that in exchange for money from third countries, they voted, tabled amendments and generally acted in an official capacity, contrary to the freedom of their mandate. this report ignores the facts. it is time for the european parliament to reflect honestly on what has happened. it is in the interest of the european union as a whole and its future that the eu institutions operate in a transparent, fair and accountable manner in the service of all its constituents.
- mr. president, please. the euro 7 emissions standards for vehicles are certainly an important step forward in the green transition. at the same time, we cannot ignore the challenges facing industry and citizens. first, it is important to emphasise that the introduction of pollution mitigation measures requires, in many cases, significant investment, which is the biggest burden on the automotive industry and such measures can also have a long-term impact on competitiveness and jobs. and of course, the increase in prices will affect consumers, as new technology will be needed, which will cost them a lot of money. the objective of the left is to push the automotive industry to develop alternative vehicles, and new standards would put even greater pressure on them. in the current war-torn inflationary environment, we must protect our citizens from further inflation due to the irresponsible proposals of the brussels left.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, dear colleagues, in the recent surge of illiberal and autocratic regimes, we are witnessing a very sharp deterioration of human rights worldwide. autocratic regimes summon their power by gradually curbing the rights of their citizens to participate in elections. and let’s face it, their toolkit is broad. putting opposition leaders behind bars, intimidating voters, setting up institutional burdens, and the list goes on and on and on. and this inevitably leads to a loss of civil control over power, unchecked corruption, further human rights violations, and a drop in overall development as a result. and as a standard-bearer for international laws and democratic norms, the european union must push for fairer elections and safeguards to protect affected societies. and we have to put an end to actively assisting illiberal regimes by recognising ridiculous attempts of mock compliance with international standards, or by participating in disgraceful fake observation missions. this report calls for stronger measures to address these challenges, which is an indispensable part of european ambitions to step up as a principal global power. so i invite you to deliver on this commitment and support this report.
in writing. i have long been personally convinced that the strengthening of the european union as we say at home in hungary for the sake of the united states of europe it is particularly important for the european union to increase its share of its own independent sources of income. we therefore support the european commission's proposal. we also attach great importance to achieving our fiscal and direct objectives by proposing that the european commission raise its own resources rate based on the ets from 25% to 30% and also propose a new own resources based on corporate profits. the short-term benefits of the proposal are seen in the fact that if it is implemented, the european union will receive an additional source of around eur 36 billion per year at 2018 prices and around eur 45 billion at today's prices. of course, this goal becomes noble when it is translated into the benefit of the people of the european union. this additional resource would be largely sufficient to refinance ngeu's costs and would be significantly allocated to the social climate fund. this is an objective which makes the proposal eligible for support. we should not see this package as the end point of a long-term global reform of the own resources system. i believe that full reforms are still necessary and indeed inevitable, because they are required by the european union and in the interests of the 450 million people who live here.
i'm going to ask you to come and see me. as a conservative, i believe that something that is already there is worth it, and as such, it should not be replaced the first time something new is given. i therefore welcome the debate today on the right to repair proposal, which will not only save consumers' wallets but also benefit the environment as waste is reduced. it is not possible for certain companies to force consumers to buy new devices in the slightest error rather than to improve existing ones in order to maximize their profits. it is therefore important that the new legislation provides an opportunity to repair damaged articles of use, whether for washing machines or bicycles. brussels should address more of these proposals, which make everyday life easier for consumers, rather than housing problems.
i'm going to have to ask you to come back. european farmers are facing major challenges. the european left's proposal to reduce pesticides would further exacerbate the already difficult situation. this is not the time for such reality-based proposals. we cannot endanger traditional farming and punish our owners any longer. war and extreme weather have already created a high level of uncertainty, and a potential food crisis would have unintended consequences. we must understand that if the quantities of food produced decrease, food prices and import demand rise, which could lead to food being unable to be paid for by the european population. it is now of utmost importance that an agreement is reached that balances climate and environmental protection, competitiveness and economic considerations.
i'm going to have to ask you to come back. sustainable transport is vital, but as always, there are still many challenges and obstacles to new technologies, green buses and trucks. it should be emphasised that in the field of inter-city transport we are not yet prepared to make these buses widely available within the timeframe proposed by the left of the european parliament. if these vehicles were subject to too strict union rules and targets, they would again place a significant burden on transport companies. this burden could be on the fare and rental prices for example, in my country, the prices of particularly favourable county rents and national rents which passengers should bear. the lack of charging infrastructure is also a huge challenge and therefore the union needs to play a greater role in building infrastructure. we must plan and implement our steps carefully and carefully so that they do not cause excessive burden on passengers.
- your honor, the president. i'm going to ask you, my fellow representatives. when we read the four proposals made by the german and verhofstadt deputies to amend the treaties, the spirit of 2005 appears in post-laeken. the constitutional treaty was voted down in france and the netherlands. today, the european parliament wants a constitution back in the drawing board. if there were a president, ministers, deputy ministers of the european union, there would be a european matter with a referendum, there would be new powers, new procedures. what is this, if not constitution? i repeat, laeken has failed once before. in addition, the new provisions would increase the powers of the european institutions, in particular the european parliament, and would undermine the interests and rights of small and medium-sized countries in particular. we believe in the success of european integration, which is under the authority and control of all the member states of the union and not the other way around. citizens of member states want strong states and a strong europe. if we reduce the member states' allowances, we will also weaken europe. war, migration, the competitiveness of europe. these are the questions that must be decided. the enlargement of the western balkans is important, but it cannot be used as an excuse to question the equality of the member states.
mr. chairman, madam commissioner, i want to see you. maybe we should start by establishing the facts. and yet my colleague verhofstadt was a little off, so i wanted to speak to him: you were talking about mistakes in eu policy, so you were talking about the need to change the treaties. these wrong decisions were not made by the activities of viktor orbán, who is often called here, but by the majority. who influenced european policy? who wanted to open the borders to illegal immigrants? who wanted to be friends with putin? who was the one who was pursuing the policy of handel? us or these countries? who, after all, when the war was still going on, called president putin? who has diminished the defense capabilities of our country's industry? let's be honest with you. you've now proposed a proposal, saying it's compromising. what's a compromise? what's a compromise? this is spinelle's group that proposed their vision of europe, colleagues of gerhard schroeder, colleagues of angela merkel, colleagues of eric honecker, and colleagues of wojciech jaruselski support it. (the speaker refused to listen to the question signalled by the raising of the blue card by lucas kohut)
mr president, the european union was founded to improve the welfare of people, not to serve the interests of member states or strong lobbyists. we therefore need greater powers in matters of health, welfare and social policy, and to ensure adequate resources in tax and taxation matters. this also means that we must move to a normal decision-making system in all the key policy areas of the union and then to a normal decision-making procedure in the council. this is also necessary because it is impossible to expand without a reform of our decision-making system. in view of the difficulty of this reform between member states, one option to consider could be that the necessary reforms be carried out within the euro area on the basis that all those who wish to join can join it later.
mr president, colleagues, the ecological crisis, the geopolitical tensions, the rapidly growing inequality – these are challenges that transcend our national borders. there are no portuguese, german or hungarian answers, only european answers or no answers at all. yet our institutions are not up for the task, not up for 27 members, and certainly not for more. so, we need treaty change. we need treaty change as soon as possible, and we have visionary proposals on the table. i can imagine a dynamic and proactive union, with autonomy in decision-making and finances, and free from vetoes, with own revenues. i can imagine a more vibrant democracy with a directly elected president. i can imagine a union with genuine powers in health and education, with a unified voice on climate justice and, yes, with a common army. this union would work for citizens. when the far right cries out, ‘national sovereignty!’, then think again. when they say sovereignty, they mean the opposite. they mean a weak europe, where citizens have absolutely no say in world affairs, and a weak europe that does not threaten their one-person rule. so, we are not falling for that. europe has the power to shape its own destiny. all we need is the courage to use it. so, let’s embrace this courage. let’s renew europe.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, human rights are fundamental principles, but they must not be instruments of blackmail. the european union, however, is not hesitant to use them as a weapon against hungary. the key is a refusal to give hungary european funds, although financed and guaranteed by all member states, including hungary itself. the reason is that hungary would not respect the values of europe. has the european union become so totalitarian? but values are political choices. everyone has the right to have their own values, even if they are not yours. but in the name of human rights, you deny your opponents the most basic human rights, those of opinion and expression. you are suing hungary for alleged violations of european values, but europe is not hesitant to trample on hungary's values. what wonder is there that makes your values sacred and others' values despicable? your hypocrisy is being exposed. i would like to express my support for hungary, which is the leading european nation in its response to the communists and the ottomans. i am sorry, but the identity, the sustainability and the security of the european peoples are not at stake.
- your honor, madam president, i would like to thank you. today, the left wants to hold another ritual political auto-death with regard to hungary. their ambition is to help their hungarian counterpart, the dollar, with political attacks against hungarians. they're playing dirty power games, they're attacking hungary's sovereignty. meanwhile, they're all about the rule of law. the rule of law, whose greater glory is that illegal campaign money from abroad could flow unimpeded to the hungarian dollar left. you have not had a word to say about this serious political corruption, but you are trying to illegally withhold eu money that is being given to hungarians in the name of political blackmail. but no matter how they plot, we're not gonna dance like they whistle in brussels. we will defend our national sovereignty, we will disrupt the pro-war brussels bureaucrats, we will protect the eu's external borders against illegal migrants, instead of anti-migration policies, and we will unchangedly reject the madness of brussels' gender ideology. so no war, no migration, no gender.
madam president, honourable commissioners, dear colleagues, i’m not that sick and tired of having this discussion, as sophia in ‘t veld is, simply because, unfortunately, it is our job. it is our role to make sure that the laws are abided by and the rule of law is being respected. it’s also our role to make sure that the commission does what it’s supposed to do. i have to say that i have to give it to the commission, after media report, after media report, we are still here, luckily, discussing this. but i also want to underline that shortcomings obviously still persist in various areas of judicial independence in hungary. they do have concrete consequences in hungary, for example, for foreign businesses operating in that member state. the message from this house must be very clear and united. as parliament, we must continue to recommend that the funding for hungary remains frozen, not because of the sake of freezing them, but until every single aspect of the super milestones on judicial independence is met. so, it’s extremely important that the commission assesses the real situation on the ground in hungary diligently. this is in the interest of european taxpayers. it’s in the interest of the rule of law in general. like said many times before, the strong rule of law culture is key for democracies, and it’s central in the fight against corruption, safeguarding academic and media freedom, and promoting human rights. this is why we expect the commission to assess the situation on the ground in hungary very, very carefully. we have to come back here and do it as many times as it takes.
madam president, commissioner, president-in-office of the council, the debate on the threat to the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights and the european idea in hungary goes back no less than 13 years to 2010. as of 2015, the discussion extends to poland. what's the thread? what is the causal core of this sequence? the commission has already adopted a number of amendments to the directive, which are in fact the subject of a directive on the protection of workers' rights. that is why we have set up the permanent framework for the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights. that is exactly why, four years ago, commissioner reynders, you presented to the committee i chair the annual report and the accompanying national report. that is why we have adopted in this european parliament a conditionality regulation to condition access to european funds on strict compliance with european legislation. because that's the rule of the game. we all follow it and all member states are obliged to follow it and, of course, hungary too. and, therefore, conditionality should not be lifted until the court's judgments are finally brought into line with the court of justice as the ultimate guarantor of the primacy and direct and binding effectiveness of european law over that of the member states. (the speaker agrees to answer a question asked in accordance with the blue card procedure)
blue-card question. – mr lópez aguilar, how can you talk about the independence of the judiciary, critiquing hungary, when in your country, your socialist prime minister has just done the most cynical, incredible move, trampling down on court rulings in serious matters just to form a government. how cynical and how great an attack against the rule of law. how can you talk about it and give us lessons on that aspect, for instance?
blue-card answer. – dear colleague, i thank you for your question. don’t you think i’m ready to answer? don’t you see that precisely because in spain, there has not been any legal change in the constitutional court, any legal change in the supreme court, any legal change in the judiciary, the only challenge, the only threat on the independence of the judiciary in spain is precisely the blocking of the judicial council imposed by the pp, which is denying the necessary votes in order to shape up the three fifths. besides, precisely because judges are independent in spain, they are free to raise their constitutional questions before the constitutional court, which suspend the legal procedure and the judicial procedure, which is underway, and to raise the preliminary rulings before the european court of justice accepted to do the same. why do they so in spain? precisely because... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, dear colleagues, this parliament created a rule of law mechanism to bring about genuine change, not to pave the way for extortion. the commission’s requirements to unfreeze eu funds to the orbán government are the bare minimum and must be implemented in full, no ifs or buts. importantly, there is an extra hurdle here. what observers often miss about the orbán regime is that institutions may seem democratic on paper if you have a little bit of fantasy, if you really try to imagine that, but the practice tells a radically different story. so the commission also needs to assess whether there is genuine commitment to these reforms. and, as we all know, autocrats are rarely good faith negotiators. we see evidence for that across the board or about actually announced plans to abuse his veto power over the budget process to extort money – he said, ‘brussels will have to hold the bag open’ to get his vote. now, as we all know, sincere cooperation is a treaty-based obligation. so my question to the commission is, in your assessment, does the orbán government comply with this obligation? we have said it before, but it is worth repeating: if you give in to the extortionists, they will always come back for more.
- your honor, madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to present three concrete examples from the last few weeks to show what the situation of the rule of law is like in hungary, where orderly governance has been taking place for years. for political reasons, the director of the national museum was fired, who was an old fiend, but gave the place to an exhibition that the ruling party did not like. a university lecturer in budapest was fired for protesting that a student could take the exam for political reasons. and a few days ago, the chief of staff at the office of statistics was fired because the government didn't like the inflation and gdp figures it was calculating. orbán and his colleagues were expecting better numbers. from now on, official statistics are not only likely to increase the population but also to mislead eurostat, thus undermining the eu's financial interests. all three cases testify to the fact that the hungarian government does not respect the laws it has created, even the constitution. the eu funds go to the hungarian people, but until the above cases are investigated, the orbán government should not be entrusted with their allocation.
i'm here to tell you, madam president, my fellow representatives. it is very easy to summarise the changes that have taken place in hungary since the commission's terms were published. compared to 2019, the players of the giant plaque have only changed. juncker was replaced by ursula von der leyen by orbán's propaganda machine. the posters today tell us not to dance like they whistle. this means only one thing: orbán does not want to comply with the commission's requests. orbán is just dancing like putin whispers to him. nothing has changed in hungary. it took four years, he exchanged two characters on the posters, and orbán's oligarchs were ripping the country apart. the juncker committee believed in orbán. it's hard to imagine that the von der leyen committee would also fall for viktor orbán's lies. the president of the integrity authority created by the orbán family, before he even took a look, declared that there is no institutional corruption in hungary. let me be clear. orbán cannot change and he does not want change because he knows that change would lead to his loss of power. that's why viktor orbán won't change. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the card)
two-card answer. viktor orbán and his government are excluding roma and poor children from public education by excluding them from church schools, for example. viktor orbán personally humiliated the gypsy pearl-spats, the roma pearl-spats, when he said that as long as he was a "pearl-spats", amongst us, as long as he was a thief, these gypsies, these people, they didn't work. viktor orbán is the one and his government who is making the poor, including our roma compatriots, unreachable. viktor orbán is the one who humiliates them practically every day.
two-card answer. you fired the heads of the ksh, among other things, because they measured it and since then they can't measure that almost half of hungary lives in poverty. you gave up the roma society, you gave up the hungarian poor. a social democratic government will change that. dobrev klára will change that, madam representative. and if you've mentioned the csok. csok, in hungary, is only for kissers. your minister, varga judit, who took over csok without any right to do so. although he is the one who has listened to the hungarian people and thus blackmails the hungarian people today, he should be ashamed before he asks such questions.
in writing. in recent years, many dangers have threatened the vital role of pollinators, such as bees. it is important to note that pollution, climate change, poses a serious risk to them. if we fail to take care of them, they can also have a negative impact on our food supply, as drastically reducing the number of pollinators can endanger food security. in addition, support for european honey producers is also vital. in many parts of europe, including hungary, high-quality honey is produced. by supporting local beekeepers, we can not only guarantee the quality of european honey, but also make the protection of pollinators more sustainable and reliable. action by the eu would be very important. with smaller steps, such as a more environmentally conscious lifestyle, supporting local products or emphasizing the importance of education, we can do much to build a more sustainable future for ourselves and future generations.
mr president, in march 2013, erika renner took her dog for a walk. her ex-partner ambushed her at her doorstep. he forcibly sedated her, stripped her and poured lye on her genitalia, causing third-degree burns. she survived this brutal attack, only to face a different form of brutality from the authorities, because, despite clear evidence, the prosecutor tried to halt the case, perhaps not independently of the perpetrators political connections. it took eight long years of litigation to finally put him in prison, but he will soon be released and erika does not feel safe or supported. recently, she said the following, ‘with years of therapy, i managed to process the crime, but not what the system did to me’. just stop and reflect on these words. her dual trauma from the vicious attack to the system’s betrayal, a system that discredits her testimonies, that forced her to discuss intimate details with hostile or simply unprepared men. and on this international day for the elimination of violence against women, remember the story of this courageous woman. erika is an eu citizen, and like all victims, she needs a much stronger european union – an eu willing to push for comprehensive reforms to protect them.
a uachtaráin, i think anything with a title of ‘cooperation’ is welcome, especially in europe, because europe is all about cooperation and we have to have much cooperation as possible, and it helps people to feel part of the european union. so judicial cooperation is absolutely essential as well. as colleagues pointed out, in this day and age, to be depending on paper and emails is not the way to go. e-signatures with the highest level of security makes sense. we are living in the digital age. this mandate was about green and digital – we haven’t made as much progress on the digital as we should. and, as colleagues pointed out also, we need training to go along with this. i mean, not just for the judiciary themselves, but also for citizens of the can access it. the facts are that something like 51% of people in the european union don’t have basic digital skills. so we have a lot of work to do in that regard. i would say to the commissioner and my good friend, ivo belet, former mep, if they are back in the next mandate, that should be a priority and set a target to move from 51% to 75% – that would be progress.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much for this fruitful debate. allow me to thank you again, and not only for the debate, but for the work that parliament put in on this new digitalisation of justice package. it is a key step to achieve the digital transformation of judicial cooperation in cross-border cases. it is also a crucial piece of legislation to ensure an uninterrupted access to justice to everyone. the commission – we will be back! the commission stands ready to deploy all efforts to facilitate the implementation of these new pieces of legislation to ensure their timely application. once again, i thank you for your attention.
the joint debate is now closed. the reports will be voted today, as you know. written statements (rule 171)
it's in writing. the aim of the digitalisation package is to improve the efficiency of judicial authorities in cross-border cooperation and to facilitate access to justice, as well as to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of judicial procedures and to facilitate access to justice through the digitalisation of existing communication channels. as a result, regulation should save costs and time and reduce the administrative burden. it will also increase the resilience of all bodies involved in cross-border judicial cooperation to force majeure. to this end, important changes are being made to all currently in place instruments for judicial cooperation in criminal and civil matters between eu member states. i fully support the project's objectives. i believe that the implementation of a modern and secure form of communication will contribute to a more effective fight against crime and to a more efficient functioning of the judiciary, which will increase the security of legal trade. it is also important that the digitalisation package will have a positive impact on citizens' access to justice, as it enables effective communication between the judicial authorities of the member states in cross-border cases. the longevity of proceedings is a problem in the courts of many member states. i believe that using digital communication channels will reduce delays in handling cases both in the short and long term. this should benefit natural and legal persons and increase confidence in national justice systems.
in writing. hungary places great emphasis on the digitisation of the judiciary. the national digitisation strategy adopted in 2022 considers the electronicisation of judicial procedures a key objective to ensure traceability and access to justice, in particular in cross-border cases. these efforts are recognised in the annual information report of the european commission, the justice scoreboard. according to this report, hungary continues to maintain its prominent position in the judicial rankings. in both commercial, administrative and civil cases, the hungarian judiciary is one of the most effective in the european union. in terms of digitalisation, hungary is the seventh of 27 member states in terms of the use of digital tools for law enforcement and prosecution, while our country offers the second largest number of digital opportunities for criminal proceedings to its citizens in the european union after estonia. after all, one question remains: what is the reason for the rule of law procedure and the withholding of resources if the commission itself recognises the performance of the hungarian judiciary?
madam president, dear colleagues, i would like to raise a point of order and a breach of the code of appropriate behaviour. earlier this week, in one of our member states, a taxpayer-funded official government campaign was launched, personally vilifying the commission president and openly spreading blatant lies about our union. it portrays the president as a puppet of the soros family, and the slogan reads, ‘let’s not dance to their tune’. this poster will be mailed to every single household in hungary. billboards have already been put up throughout the country. this is not politics. this is a shameful smear campaign and a disinformation attack against the european union. it was this chamber who elected the commission president based on the council’s proposal, not some soros family conspiracy. and it is the co-legislators who make union laws, not global shadowy forces. and if we do not denounce these toxic lies, it will corrode the foundation of our union. so i invite both the commission and parliament to strongly push back against this shameful campaign and counter lies with facts. it is our responsibility to protect the integrity of our institution.
in writing. the european parliament election in june is vital. in an uncertain, dangerous and changing world, we are deciding the future of europe. war, terrorism, illegal migration threaten the unity of europe, which is more important today than ever. it is unfortunate that the report seeks to impose ideologically defined proposals on member states, such as the single european electoral area and the summit markets system, rather than recognising the real role of elections. they would serve only the self-preservation of the existing european elite. the proposals are justified by higher voter turnout, but they are not partisan reform proposals but rather address the real problems of european citizens and avoid political disputes over the rule of law. the introduction of transnational lists would be in the interests of small and medium-sized member states, so it is no coincidence that the european parliament's proposal has been under the member states' support for more than a year. the summit-marking system is contrary to the founding treaties and the principle of independence of the european commission. it is shocking that the european commission has been acting as a political body for years, increasingly intervening in the internal political processes of the member states. this trend would only be exacerbated by the introduction of a peak-marking system, which would force candidates running for the presidency of the european commission to campaign politically. in addition, the applicants intend to introduce a new selection procedure by circumventing the founding contracts. the report is in fact another attempt to undermine the member states' rights. member states are the masters of the treaties, not the european parliament.
in writing. without the work of beekeepers, bees, not only would we lose a valuable traditional product, but our biodiversity would also suffer a serious strain as the dust settles. it is therefore essential that we use all means to help the work of beekeepers and their appetite for honey and that consumers be informed about the origin of the honey and honey products they can buy. in many forums, we have been urging the country of origin to be expressed as a percentage for years, so i am very pleased that my amendments to the labelling of honey have also contributed to the tightening of the rules on the labelling of honey mixtures. this will make it clear to customers from which country honey and honey mixtures originate. this will contribute greatly to supporting hungarian honey and beekeepers and help identify honey from outside the eu of uncertain origin and questionable quality.
mrs president, mrs jourová, commissioner šuica, well done for this defence of democracy package! because democracy can never be taken for granted, it must always be defended and reinforced. and that's what we have an obligation to do in the run-up to the 2024 election. first, by protecting it from foreign interference and manipulation and from bullies and fake news, but also by increasing participation in the 2024 elections, not only with a clear message of promoting the electoral participation of people who may have mobility problems or people with disabilities, but also, above all, by setting minimum standards of participation to combat, precisely, the decline in participation that the european elections suffered for 40 years and from which we managed to bounce back positively in 2019. the question now is how to bring together good practice, a european network of electoral cooperation. it is about putting in place a plan to defend democracy with concrete initiatives that have an influence on the electoral participation we expect in 2024. and above all, it is about protecting it from any interference from this increasingly corrupt neighbourhood, which threatens the european union and which we are clearly aware of in the member states. but above all, we must ensure that the european parliament that emerges from the 2024 elections is exactly the representation of the european citizenship that we are obliged to represent.
madam president, dear commissioners, colleagues, i have the tradition of reviewing voting results after this house votes on things the chinese communist party really dislikes, and the greek social democrats tend to consistently abstain or vote against china-critical texts. the underpinning problem is, of course, greece’s critical port of piraeus now being china-owned. this is foreign interference at work. in my country, the netherlands, we consistently supported nord stream 2, the pipeline, together with germany, where it was obviously meant to punch off ukraine, silence critical voices against russia’s own malign behaviour. so capturing european elites, like russia did with gerhard schröder, is here, of course, the underpinning problem. real defence of democracy is therefore to get rid of pressure points of autocratic governments in our society, reduce our own exposure to theirs. real defence of democracy is therefore outbound investment screening, blocking unwanted takeovers of critical industries, and to name and shame those captured elites. this defence of democracy package, dear commissioners, is much welcomed and i support it. but the real defence of democracy is yet to come.
- the president, madam. i have one eye and one eye, and the other is a good one, because the commission has finally recognized the need for further steps to tackle european democracy and attacks from outside the union. unfortunately, however, this proposal does not protect democracy from attacks from within the union. european democracy has long been under attack within the borders of the union. anti-democratic powers seek to gain influence through actors disguised as civilians and opaque corporate networks. hiding the real funders with this. i know, because as a hungarian politician, i face this reality every day, we live in this reality. we must be brave, comrades, and in defence of democracy, demand full transparency from all social and political actors, unitedly, in all member states. not only in relation to attacks and money from outside the union but also from within the union. this will enable us to truly track and ultimately uncover who are the real actors behind the threat to eu democracy.
mr president, the dire lack of affordable housing for our youth is a european crisis, and it requires a european solution. and why do i say this? because it impacts student mobility and the eu’s flagship erasmus programme, as well as many students with limited means, are deterred from going abroad, threatening our shared european identity. this is unacceptable. erasmus and student exchanges are our most powerful instruments for fostering a european identity. i have personally greatly benefited from being able to study abroad, and it is heartbreaking to see that many young people miss out due to the lack of affordable housing. so we need solutions and we need them now, and we need them to be european solutions. so let’s think about an eu funded investment programme for student housing, for instance. let’s create erasmus dormitories, hubs of cultural exchange, easing local housing challenges and strengthening bonds among europe’s youth. and if it works, maybe we can extend it to young professionals as well. the erasmus programme should commit to creating student accommodations equal to the yearly number of erasmus students in a city. so let’s take bold steps to ensure every student can access the life-changing experience of studying abroad.
- mr. president, please. money-filled suitcases, millions of gifts provided to brussels bureaucrats, mysteriously missing text messages. it is outrageous that a year after the worst corruption cases in brussels, there is still no progress on these cases. the left-wing mps involved will continue to sit in our constituencies and vote. my fellow members, instead of appearances, real measures are needed. the eu institutional system designed to fight corruption has failed and investigations are still being carried out by the authorities of the member states. it is clearer than the sun: the corrupt system of political influence buying is currently operating in brussels, where the soros empire is the beneficiary and third countries are the beneficiaries. this system needs to be changed. we need a fundamental political change. the brussels marsh must be swept away in next year's european parliament elections.
mr. president, my honor, madam sergeant. i want to talk about a topic that hasn't been discussed in today's debate, and that is the family. families have a prominent role to play in the fight to protect the climate, because every step we take affects the future of our children. a sustainable future requires a sustainable demographic, so the family is not the cause, but the solution to the climate crisis. who are we to protect the earth for if not the next generation? while hungary was doing its homework, frans timmermans, the former commissioner responsible for the green transition, was completely unsuccessful. hungary has one of the most ambitious climate programmes in the world. we have significantly reduced our carbon emissions while increasing our economic productivity. let such good examples be before our eyes. by following best practices, the whole world needs to come together, because only together can we make change for climate change.
