mr president, 30 years of the single market marks 40 years of what is the principal reason and the ultimate goal for the process of european integration: a market. despite initial promises of a social europe, the single market, driven by the commission and the court of justice, has helped to transform into, in wolfgang streeck’ words, ‘a machine for the liberalisation of european capitalism’. to allow this market to function, the eu has created mountains of legislation through various treaties, regulations and directives whose function has generally been to promote neo—liberalism, allowing the eu to erode policies from consumer rights, labour rights and social rights in the various member states. now we need an eu that rejects neo—liberalism and we should always put the interests of the ordinary citizen before those of the markets.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a company is a business with offices, computers, employees, a strategy and people talking to each other. a shell company is a small letterbox used to conceal the identity of its owner. since 2020, two-thirds of the wealth produced has been captured by the richest 1%. screen companies play a central role in making them even richer, ever less accountable and ever less visible. so i'm glad that in reflecting the inequalities of the rich becoming ultra-rich, we can agree on the end of this system. before i shout victory, i would like to remind you that these texts are voted on by the unanimity of the member states, some of which have made this type of society their livelihood. as it happens, luxembourg is well-off: despite its 55 000 front companies, 90% of which are controlled by foreign owners, it can continue to penalize the whole of europe with its unfair behaviour. paying taxes is not an option, it is a pillar in our societies. without a significant reduction in inequality, we cannot hope to eradicate extreme poverty. so let us hope for a decent standard of living and refuse to let the wealth of a few increase again.
mr. president, "god laughs at men who weep over the effects of causes they cherish". i often repeat this phrase here from mr bossuet, but the facts are there, they are stubborn: the european union does not know how to fight, the european union does not fight against tax evasion. the globalist model should be ended, but you refuse to do so. the failure of the blacklisting policy is a cruel and obvious example. this system has not prevented multinationals or other specialists in tax evasion from becoming considerably richer. on the other hand, it is very good to focus on the middle classes, on our smes, on our small businesses, on our artisans, who are always asked to pay more. we owe our fellow citizens more than to bequeath to them the generalized fiscal injustice, while they pay dearly for the mistakes of brussels: energy crisis, inflation, decline in purchasing power, relocations, unemployment. yes, it takes courage and determination to establish or enforce regulations to prevent shell companies from being used for tax evasion. yes, because we must strengthen transparency, justice and democracy within the european union; we owe it to our fellow citizens because everyone must contribute to the common effort. so do the shell companies and the speculators.
mr president, madam vice-president, the battle against tax evasion, against tax fraud, against tax havens, is a battle we have to win and it is true that in recent times we have been getting some good news. the oecd agreement to set that minimum rate of corporation tax at 15% is a great initiative that we have to put into effect now, after blockages and blockages from some countries or others and there is an important agenda in this area. but we also have to recognize that while the prosecution of tax fraud by multinationals is making reasonable progress, we are not making progress in the fraud of the great estates of family wealth that these shell companies use to evade taxes. this directive which the commission is presenting is a step in the right direction and this parliament supports it and we are calling on the council and, in particular, on some governments, which have been blocking these and other initiatives in the council, to finally follow the support of the european parliament and the commission.
mr president, commissioner, since the revelations such as the pandora papers and open lux, it is now common knowledge that shell entities are being used to shift and hide billions in wealth and profits every year for corporations and high-net-worth individuals within the eu. now, to get to the heart of an issue like this we do need ambition, and the text is a welcome step forward. but i think most of us agree that we have a lot more to do. a huge swathe of potential offenders are excluded from the text through exemptions to financial services. and what the scope limited to the eu it does nothing to tackle companies with shells registered in third-country tax havens like the cayman islands and the british virgin islands. it’s a start, but we have a long way to go.
mr president, dear colleagues, commissioner sinkevičius, today we discuss an updated legal framework which could be a game changer in terms of a global challenge. the waste shipment regulation intends to protect the environment and public health from the impacts of unsound transboundary shipments of waste, since the non—appropriately controlled shipments of waste across borders may generate risks for both the environment and human health. this regulation is also enhancing eu strategic autonomy in terms of raw materials. raw materials is a strategic priority for this house and the main key to delivering on the eu’s green and digital transition. we should keep in mind that these wastes, particularly as raw materials, could benefit the economy by reducing the dependence on primary materials leading to a more secure and sustainable economy. therefore, it is important to understand that a solid circular economy depends heavily on sufficient recycling capacity and appropriate technology to feed secondary raw materials into the production of new goods. the eu should not embrace measures that will cut off facilities, that are making sustainable progress, from the recycling markets. i would like to make a call to all of you to support the collective agreement that our rapporteur pernille weiss has already concluded with our co—rapporteurs in order to have a concrete text without any additional amendments. the eu can be a global leader in the green transition, using its influence and incentives to promote transformational change, not only in our continent, but also in third countries in terms of waste management. and now is the time.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. 32.7 million tons of waste, of which 1.1 million tons of plastic waste: this unimaginable amount of waste was exported by the european union to the rest of the world in 2021 alone, often to countries like turkey or malaysia. true to the motto, out of sight, out of mind. but unfortunately, this garbage doesn't just disappear because it's no longer with us. if it works out, at least the trash gets recycled. if it goes badly, as it often does, it creates huge landfills that devastate the countryside and also poison and damage the fauna and flora. and that has to stop. and that is the clear message that the report sends. it is particularly important that we want to ban the export of dangerous, toxic plastic waste. the fact that the export of plastic waste is to be completely banned within four years is a real success. and i hope we can convince the council, and i would have liked to have discussed this with the council today. but the truth is that, beyond plastic, the export of non-recyclable waste is still possible in many cases. unfortunately, the majority of this house lacks the courage to say: we europeans take full responsibility for the waste we produce and cause. and because of that, we're missing an opportunity. but despite this drop in the bucket, this report is a huge step in the right direction and therefore deserves our full support.
mr president, we pay multiple times for our addiction to plastic. we pay at the till in the shop for mountains of plastic packaging – we have no choice but to buy those products. we pay again to have it taken away and shipped off to other countries for disposal. and we all pay when that waste finds its way into our rivers, onto our beaches, and into our soils. what we do with our waste goes to the heart of environmental justice. this means taking responsibility for the waste we produce rather than simply putting it out of sight, out of mind. today, parliament moves to ban the export of plastic waste. it is a huge challenge that will require systemic change, but the cost of inaction is so much higher.
mr president, commissioner, in 2020 the eu exported over 27 million tonnes of waste outside the eu, an increase of 75% since ’04. between 2001 and 2019 we doubled our hazardous waste shipments from the eu. our waste production trend seems to be going in the wrong direction. this report supports the introduction of a phased-in ban on the export of plastic waste outside the eu, and that’s to be welcomed. but to stop us from drowning in our own waste we’re going to do a lot more, and we really need to scale up recycling capacity and also significantly reduce plastic waste in the first place. europeans used to be resourceful, now we are wasteful. we need to change the eu’s waste economy.
mr president, in 2020, the eu exported more than 33 million tonnes of waste to non—eu countries. among these wastes, as colleagues have pointed out, one of the biggest contributors is plastic pollution. the hundreds of millions of tonnes of waste produced every year, which degrade into microplastics end up in all the world’s oceans in the bodies of humans and animals. and if nothing is done, this will almost triple by about 2060. half will end up in landfill. less than a fifth will be recycled. and the truth is that the solution to plastic is not about recycling, it’s about reduction. so our job really is to combat this narrative. and while waiting on the so—called reform of european rules aimed at banning waste to africa or east asia, it is more than urgent that we intensify our efforts to fight against illegal exports, which are a violation of the sovereignty of states and populations outside the eu. partnership means equal treatment, not treating the others as a wasteland for our interests. a modern type of colonialism.
mr president, last week, ireland lost a true revolutionary and one of her best poets, kevin higgins. we lost our friend and his last poem was called i always thought i’d live, and i’d like to read a piece from that: ‘i always thought i’d live to tidy the books off the study floor and see fascists give up stabbing black boys at bus stops because peaceful protests have eloquently made them see the error of their ways. but the books that made me still decorate the study floor and i don’t have the oxygen to shift them. my consultants are unanimous. my days marching to places like welling and trafalgar square are over. the risk of getting tossed into the back of a police van by overenthusiastic members of the constabulary is a luxury my lungs can no longer afford. even holding a placard in my wheelchair would soon have me gasping for breath. and i thought i’d always live.’ kevin’s funeral was yesterday. he will always live in his words. slán abhaile, a chairde.
mr president, dear colleagues, last tuesday, former prime minister andrej babiš, who is notorious for his populist agenda, visited french president emmanuel macron in paris. the meeting took place just three days before the first round of czech presidential elections, in which mr babiš, currently leader of one of the opposition parties, is taking part. i must very strictly denounce this rendezvous under this circumstance. although the élysée palace was trying to persuade the world that the meeting in question wasn’t meant to support mr babiš in his electoral effort, it actually helped him a lot. in my opinion, the heads of eu member states and also high representatives of eu must show restraint when it comes to elections in the eu countries. intrusions like the one perpetrated by the french president is simply unacceptable. please mind your own business, president macron, and let the czech voters decide.
mr president, many years ago the great american singer-songwriter woody guthrie said, ‘if we fix it so you can’t make money on a war, we’ll all forget what we’re killing folks for’. war is a money racket. lobbyists for the military industrial complex are wearing out the carpets in brussels promoting war, promoting debt. the war in ukraine is not a war for democracy. it’s just one more imperialist war with the less privileged dying in their thousands and thousands. why are our politicians promoting war? war is ugly. war is stupid. whatever happened to our desire for peace? where do we think this is going? there was a time when we had a different approach. there was a time when we weren’t so subservient to the military industrial complex or to us imperialism. what’s gone damn wrong with us? you keep talking about being worried about the european union. well, listen, if you are so worried about start working for peace and stop promoting war.
madam president, mr president kristersson, ladies and gentlemen, to deal with the cost of living crisis caused by the rising cost of energy and to deal with the climate emergency, we have an easy solution that also isolates putin. seal off the houses. as rapporteur for the review of the energy performance and building directives, i want the european union and the member states to tackle these crises simultaneously. buildings are responsible for more than a third of greenhouse gas emissions in the eu. a european restructuring plan would create hundreds of thousands of jobs locally and help to cope with these two crises. with ambitious minimum energy performance standards, i intend to lift millions of europeans out of energy poverty and i aim above all to introduce social safeguards and to protect those most at risk. i hope that the negotiations with the swedish presidency will be fruitful.
mr president, i welcome the findings of this report and its aim to strengthen consumer protection and the single market, as both go hand in hand. i believe we are looking at and we could see opportunities to drive and support policies and regulations tailored to the industry of gaming and e—sports industries, and they want to be at the table of this conversation. i call for the swift transposition and implementation of this directive on contracts for the supply of digital content and digital services. it will give further confidence to consumers, especially, as many colleagues have shared, the pegi label for parents and their children. these measures will help both consumers and the gaming industry as it will give confidence to the consumers and the industry and will offer clear parameters in which to operate and build their businesses. finally may i add, because it was mentioned by a colleague of mine, as we celebrate the 30th anniversary of the creation of the single market, we must ensure its readiness for the digital age.
food inflation is 18%; input costs to farmers are running at 24%. inflation is having a significant impact on lower-income families across europe and is now having a significant impact on farmers being able to produce food itself. so i ask the commission: first and foremost, what is it going to do in terms of addressing the input costs, primarily fertiliser, and other commodity costs, like protein feeds for animals, for example, to convert to meat or milk production? that is going to be a significant challenge. i would like to know what efforts will be made to displace the importation of soya, maize, oilseed with crops grown in europe under the protein strategy. and finally, commissioner, we have never had an impact assessment on farm to fork, on the biodiversity strategy or on the green deal itself. so is it not time that we would have an impact assessment on the strategies to ensure that some of those strategies aren’t adding further to the difficulties regarding price inflation and food inflation?
would the commissioner not agree that we should base all our policies on concrete data and on scientific evidence? and we have to move beyond hope. we have to make decisions knowing the potential outcome and impact that those decisions will have. and our production capacity, our competitiveness, our import costs and, ultimately, the cost to consumers will increase. will increase – we know that definitively. and now we have the added additional problems with regard to the cost of fertiliser and other inputs into the food chain in the european union. so all i’m asking – i’m not opposing, i support it – but we have to do it on science.
in writing. the brussels corruption scandal clearly highlighted what the hungarian government has been saying for years: that outside forces have bought corrupt left-wing meps through ngos linked to george soros to gain political influence. this is just the tip of the iceberg. every week, new politicians are revealed to have represented the interests of third countries in the european parliament. don't you think this is a schoolyard example of hypocrisy? the european left wants to use every available tool to punish hungary - citing alleged corruption charges - when it should be sweeping its own house. the same meps who have been caught up in the corruption scandal have voted against hungary in every case and lobbied for the freezing of eu funds. this is a perfect illustration of the lying, hypocritical and hypocritical attitude of the european left. there is systemic corruption in brussels which affects the european institutions very deeply, especially the european parliament. the anti-corruption package proposed by parliament is only scratching the surface, as the creators and beneficiaries of the corruption machine will not simply dismantle this system on their own. the european parliament is now severely disconnected from its electorate and acts as a loose cannon without external control. so i urge you to look inside yourself, take the political consequences out of it, and stop the political witch-hunt against hungary once and for all!
the next item is the joint debate on:– the report by david mcallister, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy – annual report 2022 (2022/2048(ini)) (a9-0292/2022); and– the report by tom vandenkendelaere, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the implementation of the common security and defence policy – annual report 2022 (2022/2050(ini)) (a9-0296/2022).
rapporteur. – madam president, thank you for giving me the floor. high representative / vice-president josep borrell, dear colleagues, i remember how we adopted last year’s common foreign and security policy report, it was on the 16th of february and just a few days later, the world changed significantly. since the 24th of february, war is back in europe. we are living in a moment of geopolitical redefinition, as we have heard by previous speakers today already. the european union’s swift, united and sustained response to the russian war of aggression against ukraine, and our ability to learn and address previous geostrategic mistakes, is a testament of the effectiveness of our common foreign security and defence policy. indeed, the world has returned to the rules of power politics. as the european union, we need to adapt to these realities, making sure that our objectives are consistent with our means. my report this year emphasises that the european union should shape its common foreign and security policy in accordance with four general actions. first, the concept of strategic autonomy or strategic sovereignty, however you want to name it, needs to be put into practice. this can, inter alia, be done by swiftly and efficiently implementing the ambitious measures enshrined in the strategic campus. this can be done by reducing strategic dependencies. this can be done by enhancing the european union’s resilience. but its action that speaks not words. second, the european union should strengthen bilateral and multilateral partnerships for a better world. from our closest neighbours and allies to those who are far away but need us most, we should cooperate with partners to defend the rules based order and to maintain a principled position vis-à-vis those who exactly challenge our common values and principles. thirdly, to strengthen the european union’s institutional and decision-making arrangements in foreign and security policy, we once again propose to turn to qualified majority voting progressively in all areas of the cfsp without military or defence implications. for instance, when it comes to the eu global human rights sanctions regime, also called the eu magnitsky act, using the passerelle clauses in article 48 and article 31 of the treaty on european union would be key. and finally, fourthly, we should do our best to enhance parliamentary diplomacy as one of the european union’s foreign policy tools with a proven added value. to conclude, let me thank the shadow rapporteurs, all the involved staff from the groups and the secretariat, and also dear josep borrell, the team of the high representative for the once again constructive and fruitful cooperation. and i’m looking forward to carefully listening to the arguments in this debate.
the european union has a long history of supporting the peace process, and the european union is committed to the peace process. a year in which russian aggression against ukraine literally and figuratively knew no bounds. a year in which geopolitics had returned from never having really been away. a year of increasing strategic and even systemic rivalries. a year in which we learned what it can mean to literally have to fight for the values we stand for and hold so dear: the european union is committed to the promotion of democracy and the rule of law, fundamental rights and freedoms, international law and multilateralism. but it is also a year of progress to safeguard not only prosperity but also the safety of our citizens. a year of realizing that we need to do a lot more to keep ourselves safe. the year in which the meaning of european cooperation is very easy to understand, because the need for it is felt much more strongly. it was also a year of firm steps towards a stronger, more autonomous and therefore less dependent european defence, with greater cohesion and cooperation between member states. more solidarity also with partners in our neighbouring regions. more solidarity with our trusted allies too. so a year of aggression and war, but also of ambition that really has a place. i believe that this report reflects all these aspirations in a pragmatic and realistic way, and therefore in a credible and effective way. it focuses, for obvious reasons, on the pervasive and pervasive challenges and threats we face, with the war in ukraine and all its consequences as the most obvious. it also calls for attention to the multiplicity and intensity of hybrid threats and the need for multi-faceted resilience, not just in the military field. it is committed to continuous updating and, of course, to the full implementation of the adopted strategic compass. it emphasises the strengthening of our defence capabilities, eliminating overlaps and gaps between the various member states, but also, for example, between the union and nato, and meeting the immense need for interoperability. the report stresses the importance of adequate financial resources and the respect of budgetary commitments. it called for the strengthening of defence through even greater and better cooperation within nato, but also through far-reaching cooperation and investment in our multilateral and bilateral relations, such as the un and the uk. it nurtures our aspiration for a security and defence policy at the level of a credible regional and global actor that can make a real difference in addressing threats, problems and conflicts. it calls for the creation of a more efficient infrastructure and architecture for a more effective security and defence policy, with the operationalization of the rapid deployment capacity and the upgrading of our missions and operations as policy instruments on the ground as the main priority. finally, last but not least, it breaks a barrier for security and defence policy which is supported by the realization of potential and added value at european level, by less dependence on third parties, by more flexible and faster decision-making for greater efficiency, and by a stronger democratic legitimacy based on a more active role of this european parliament. i look forward to the debate this afternoon and i thank my fellow shadow rapporteurs for the very good cooperation and of course all the staff who have worked on this report.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. madam president, thank you to the two rapporteurs for their work. they are important contributions to the process of making the european union a geopolitical player. as you have said, a lot has changed since last february, we have passed a crucial page in history. the russian invasion of ukraine is an event of secular significance that is sending its shockwaves around the world. a few days ago there was a debate at the united nations on the rule of law in the world, and the secretary-general put it very well. we've had the russian invasion of ukraine, we've had the worst year in terms of deaths in palestine and israel, terrorism and food insecurity in the sahel, north korea's nuclear program, gender apartheid in afghanistan, the military coup in myanmar, the humanitarian situation in haiti and so many other problems. what we see in all of them is the return on a large scale of power politics and in the face of this, in the face of this world of radical uncertainty, the european union has to respond, as i think we have done in the case of ukraine, with sanctions and with military aid on a scale that has never been done before. more than 15 000 ukrainian soldiers are to be trained in our military missions, which i recently visited in poland. we are about to approve the seventh aid package through the european peace support fund and our combined civilian, military and financial aid puts us in first place in the world. in addition, as the report says, we have continued our commitment to our immediate neighbourhood in ukraine, of course, but also in moldova, in bosnia and herzegovina, throughout the balkans, in kosovo and serbia, in armenia and azerbaijan. we have seen the emergence of china, a china that in this meeting at the united nations said loud and clear that it does not believe in this rules-based international order, which is an ambiguous concept that ultimately only aims to establish the supremacy of the western world. let's be careful about our economic dependence on china. we are now more dependent on china for the green transition than we have been on russian energy. we need to continue to build resilience and diversify our supply chains. that is also important for our relations with our southern neighbours, with africa, central asia and latin america. the competition between the united states and china is the main structuring force of this global order, but other actors are emerging: turkey, india, brazil, south africa, nigeria, mexico and indonesia. i would like to give examples of what can be considered as swing states on a global scale, countries which do not want to take sides, which defend their interests and which in some way constitute the structure of what is now called the global south, countries which do not want to take an explicit side in this confrontation between russia and the western world and which we cannot force to do so, but we have to understand what the causes of their concerns are. we need to be more proactive, we need to be seen as what we aspire to be: a force for global progress in the fight against climate change and inequality, the development of a just multilateral order that can address the energy and food crises, but also build more cohesive societies. in the field of security, we have made progress in implementing the strategic compass, which aims to make the european union more resilient as a security provider with more modern and more interoperable armies. we have made progress in the rapid deployment capability, where the next step is to develop for the first time real-time exercises, real, at sea and on land, starting with the next spanish presidency. the war in ukraine is forcing us to significantly increase our level of ambition in defence investment. we must not only spend more, but above all, we must spend better. and that means spending together. and that is why we have pesco, which must be further developed, the european defence fund, with the obligation to replenish our military stocks which the war in ukraine has depleted. i'm counting on you to help develop the joint procurement agreement to also strengthen the industrial base of our defense. we also need to increase our capacity to respond to hybrid threats, cyber attacks, and protect our critical infrastructure. ladies and gentlemen, during my examination, my confirmation as high representative, back in 2019, i said that europe had to speak the language of power and become a geopolitical actor. we are making progress in this area, but we certainly have a long way to go. the russian invasion of ukraine has been an incentive and an argument to continue doing so. i'm counting on you to move faster and further.
rapporteur for the opinion, committee on constitutional affairs. madam president, commissioner, colleagues, europe is facing an unprecedented security crisis. the war in ukraine has shown us the limits of our defence system, the challenges of foreign policy and the fragility of european unity. citizens expect from us guarantees of their security, as well as the protection of our values, interests and borders. we need a dynamic and faster decision-making process, using all the mechanisms of the european treaties, including greater involvement of the european parliament. we need to be able to apply effective sanctions, but also to combat new hybrid threats. we need better cooperation with nato and the united states, but also joint defence capabilities, including through the development of the technology industry and strategic autonomy in this area. it's very complicated to talk about our defense or supporting ukraine. as long as we are divided, we have a tough decision-making process and many european countries are facing an arms shortage or have not invested enough in the field. we have to protect, obviously, europe and the eastern flank, and i can tell you that the frontline states, the states in the region of ukraine, including my state, romania, are waiting for a greater european authority. the enlargement of the schengen area may facilitate the support to ukraine and the republic of moldova. we have addressed all these issues in our opinion and we hope that these points of view will be taken into account.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have seen in the past year that in foreign affairs it seems to take strong external pressure to bring us together and act with determination. the war waged by the criminal putin regime against ukraine - but in reality also against us by other means - has practically forced this common position. i wish we had come to a more realistic common assessment of putin's intentions earlier. there were more realistic estimates like that. the majority, particularly in the western part of the eu, did not want to see it. let's draw some conclusions. i think this is an admission that even the largest member states are not able to develop a specific agenda against a determined dictator that will impress him. the table at the meetings between macron, scholz and others and putin was clearly not suitable for dialogue. the high commissioner, in a joint communication with the commission, set the priorities with regard to russia right before the war began: push back, constrain and engage. let us act together in the future with such a realistic european approach let us stay strong together! let's not turn back! the large part of latin america, africa and asia will be glad to be able to continue to engage with us in the future, with such a strong europe. i wish us a victorious new year.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, dear high representative, thanks also to the rapporteur of the cfsp report. this year was the year in which russia’s brutal invasion of ukraine forced our union to reach geopolitical maturity because the assault of autocrats against global democracy and freedom is stronger than ever. but so are we. we stand united in our resolve, and under your decisive leadership, in our actions. democracy is winning. our unity has momentum and we will not relent. so, colleagues, tomorrow vote for our amendments to add the revolutionary guard to the terrorist list. commission, finally, investigate the commissioner for enlargement for his alleged support to autocrats with secessionist tendencies in the western balkans. and member states, this friday at ramstein air base, give ukraine what it needs to win its freedom. dictators will not stop us. we will always defend our values. slava ukraini!
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, dear colleagues, since the russian aggression against ukraine is the most important foreign and security policy issue for the european union, all other foreign policy issues must also be viewed through the prism of the russian aggression in ukraine. in other words, how the eu’s relations with third countries can contribute to the end of russian aggression. regarding trade and development cooperation, it is necessary to look closely at how the partner countries of the eu behave in relation to russian aggression. how do they vote at the un general assembly? what kind of relations do they develop with russia? and even more, what kind of military equipment do they supply to russia? they say you can’t be everybody’s darling, so, more support must be given to those countries for whom russian crimes and violations of international law are unacceptable. and adjustments have to be made in relations with countries that continue to deal with the russian regime as if nothing had happened. this is necessary in order to help ukraine and continue to put pressure on the russian regime, as well as to strengthen the international credibility of the european union.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, vice-president, hr/vp, david, colleagues, we do live in a new era. for the eu the next seven years will decide whether we will sit at the table or be on the menu. we have to start with realism, though. overblown dreams of strategic autonomy can be and must be discarded because we learn in the present situation that without the united states’ support, we would not have been able to hold our own together to support ukraine. that means we must continue to invest in transatlantic relations, but at the same time, we have to up our own game. we have to increase our capabilities: being an ally is not enough; we must be strong allies. second, we must not allow ourselves to be captured by delusions about the nature of authoritarian and totalitarian regimes. and that in particular means de-risk our relationship with china. systemic rivalry is not just between washington and beijing. nostra res agitur. third, cooperation with countries of the global south to promote mutual benefit is not an option anymore, it’s a must – a geopolitical must, and that implies that we have to invest in the global gateway initiative. and finally, the climate crisis has long been a threat—multiplier. this multiplication is getting more dangerous by the year. fighting climate crisis is not everything, but without effectively fighting climate crisis, everything will come to nought.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, high representative / vice-president, colleagues, i deeply feel all areas you mentioned hr / vp and i engage there assisting them in their dire situation in particular people there. yet allow me to focus on ukraine, so brutally against all principles of international law, invaded the previous year by the russian federation – a full-scale invasion by the permanent un security council member. we have to focus all our efforts in helping ukraine to win this war. the previous year was a real test for us of our unity. we maintain it although very fragile, we have to strengthen it. and the previous year was a year of real test passed by the us in its leadership in defending europe. therefore putting in question the whole concept of strategic autonomy; without their weapons, ukraine would not be able to fight. and myself and my colleagues suffering decades because of early warning vis-à-vis the russian federation. we are against qualified majority voting in foreign affairs. there is much to change in the foreign affairs of the eu and current actions are not enough to prove the real leadership of a majority of the eu.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, this policy is selling militarism as something to keep us safe, when in reality it’s the opposite. it’s militarism that’s driving a dramatic rise in geopolitical tensions, drastically undermining our security. and you’d think that the ukraine war would have shocked us out of this approach. but no, this report wants more of the same – increases in heavy weapons to ukraine, massive hikes in defence expenditure to a minimum of 2% of gdp, budget increases for arms through the orwellian european peace facility and a european defence union with no vetoes on defence decisions, overruling small states, not to mention an active mutual defence obligation transforming the eu into a military alliance. and if that wasn’t bad enough, we have more sanctions, more eu-nato relations, more failed and destructive eu missions in africa – on and on it goes. it’s the policy of lunacy trumpeted by a parliament bedazzled by the military—industrial complex. and we reject this vision. militarism and war are not and will never be a solution. we demand a europe built on conflict resolution, on collective security, free from the old and the new divisions, where all states and countries are involved. a future of diplomacy, arms control, disarmament as the only real way to guarantee our security.
mr. president, in 2022 it became clear that appeasement policy doesn't work against leading revisionists who disrespect international law. the european union must take the necessary steps towards a defence union immediately so that it can protect its citizens adequately. while we are living the consequences of putin's illegal invasion of ukraine, the european leadership remains indifferent to turkey's continuing and escalating provocations towards greece and cyprus. after the threats that greece would soon be within range of the new turkish missile and the questioning of greek sovereignty over the islands, the turkish leadership not only reiterated but even extended the casus belli towards greece, in the event that we exercise our sovereign rights in the aegean and crete. greece will continue to defend its national sovereignty unwaveringly. but the policy of equal distance, especially from nato, gives erdogan an alibi. not a single bullet, let alone fighter jets and aircraft carriers, should be sold to a country that threatens peace in the south-eastern mediterranean.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have three brief comments. first, we should be concerned about the growing influence of iran in bosnia and herzegovina, which is clearly seen, not only from the visit of the iranian foreign minister to sarajevo, where the bih minister, minister bisera turković, relativized state repression in iran, but also from the fact that bih did not support the un resolutions condemning the violence in iran, which certainly distanced itself from the european notion of democracy. secondly, we should pay more attention to the serbian arms race in kosovo, and thirdly, migration, whereby some lobbies in the european union continue to empower so-called humanitarian ngos that are linked to people smugglers, and which thus certainly make it difficult for croatia to responsibly guard the schengen borders. so i invite you all to come together and send a message that we will stand firmly for the rule of law, that is, the laws that say that borders can only be crossed at border crossings.
mr president, mr high representative, the european union must consolidate and strengthen its common foreign, security and defence policy. the eu's decision-making process needs to be reformed. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the basis of a qualified majority. although eu countries have succeeded in imposing fairly effective sanctions on russia over the past year, too often a member state has been a brake on and a hindrance to decision-making. the war has also shown that the member states of the european union must invest much more in security and defence. the commission calculates that in the last 20 years before the war, eu countries had increased their defence investment by only 20%, while russia had increased its own by almost 300%. it is therefore time to strengthen the european defence industry and increase joint procurement. the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has also been involved in the fight against organised crime.
mr president, these reports elevate the eu to a pedestal where we stand for all that’s right and just in the world, defending human rights, democracy, the rule of law. in reality, the eu and its partners never stop violating international law, going above multilateral institutions like the un with their own parallel systems, including punishing millions of people around the world through our authoritarian, unilateral sanctions regime. we fund and arm openly fascist regimes and authoritarian monarchic dictatorships. we are involved in conflicts in many of our former colonies, and we support anti-democratic coups when it suits our business interests. yet in these reports, all the bad actors are out there in the jungle posing a danger to us. meanwhile, we want to spend more on arms and defence while advancing the eu as a war project instead of a peace project.
the president's honourable lady, the honourable members, the reference to the proven ineffectiveness of the istanbul convention, the desire to impose on children, without parental consent, programmes of sexual education that are full of error and the desire to declare abortion a universal human right, are all just consequences of the fundamentally flawed approach to human rights in this report. this approach makes every human desire a human right. i want to. it's my right. this is the behaviour of a spoiled child, and this is not the behaviour of the european parliament. there are school classes where half of those 14-year-olds have taken advantage of the so-called human right to change their gender. most of these kids won't be able to become parents. do you really think that this approach to human rights is sustainable and good for society? human rights are important, but we have to reconcile them with the rights of other people and the fact that man is not omnipotent. without it, human rights foster a selfish individualism that wrecks society.
madam president, from putin’s terror and aggression against the people of ukraine, lukashenko’s oppressive regime in belarus, credible evidence of a genocide against uyghurs by the ccp, to the dramatic increase of persecution based on religion and belief, the human rights situation around the world remains dire. at a time when non-democratic and totalitarian regimes continue to subvert our democracies, they also seek to destroy the human dignity of their own citizens. that’s why today, more than ever, we must take democracy on the offensive and support freedom—loving people around the world. at a time when we need to work with our democracies together and allies to strengthen the resilience of multinational institutions against the malign influence and non-democratic regimes. to do this, we must finally leave behind ideological battles in areas beyond our competences and increase work together to support those whose freedom is in peril.
madam president, this is the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the eu’s policy on the matter. in 2022, 150 palestinians were killed by the apartheid state of israel. this year alone, and it’s only the 17th of january, 14 have been killed, 4 of them children. how come this is not mentioned in the report? how come we allow these terrible crimes against the palestinian people to happen every day and we stay silent in here? it couldn’t happen without our complicity. there’s been a coup in peru and we supported it. 50 protesters have been killed and we’ve nothing to say about it. that’s not in the report either. yemen has the worst humanitarian disaster on the planet today. according to the un, over 400 000 are dead and 16 million are hungry. and we have nothing to say about it. and it’s not in the report. what’s the idea? why are we so selective?
madam president, once upon a time, human rights were about political and social rights: housing, healthcare, food, jobs. but, of course, that challenged the economic order, and so social rights were edited out and human rights became weaponised – a stick to beat our so-called geopolitical enemies. and every plenary we hunt for useful victims to demonise our rivals, while the victims that we create are never mentioned. and as my colleague said, perish the thought that the crimes of apartheid israel against palestinians would ever be mentioned; the syrians tortured and murdered by us sanctions. the truth is, all people have rights by virtue of being human. but in here, some are more human than others. the only country mentioned in the report is ukraine. why? there are unspeakable horrors taking place in ukraine. they do deserve to be referenced, but little distinguishes them from the horrors elsewhere except the colour of their skin and how much use we can make of them, and that’s the truth about eu human rights policy. it’s not authentic. it’s just another facade for european chauvinism, a cloak for modern colonialism.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, russia’s war crimes in ukraine have become an integral part of russia’s image, a way of life and at the same time a dead end. meanwhile, i had hoped that we in the european union had realised that russia’s aggression against ukraine is a war against us all. this aggressor must be defeated. therefore, when i hear the austrian foreign minister calling for a sense of proportion when dealing with russia, i invite him, austrian minister, to wake up from his lethargy and look at the world with a sense of reality. the people of ukraine will not pardon our indecisiveness and ignorance. let us act now. let us deliver weapons, as much as possible.
madam president, commissioner reynders, it is indeed one year since the brutal war of aggression that we call putin's war against ukraine, which has had seismic consequences for the european neighbourhood as a whole from the social and economic point of view, from the energy point of view, from the humanitarian point of view, but also from the geostrategic point of view, which has led to an exercise in unity for which russia has been punished politically. there is little mention of her being expelled from the council of europe. it is the first time that this has happened in an international organization which had 47 member states and now has 46; russia, out. but there have been strong economic sanctions, supported by the european parliament's emergency procedures, and legal sanctions as well, supported by this european parliament; emergency procedure: the reform of eurojust to work with the international criminal prosecutor's office and with the joint investigation teams to ensure that there will be no impunity for war criminals. but that requires two conditions. the first is that putin should not get away with it, that is, that he should be defeated in this war of aggression. secondly, that we maintain unity until we actually bring to justice, in some form, the war criminals who are committing crimes of aggression and crimes against humanity on ukrainian territory.
madam president, bucha, irpin, borodyanka, mariupol and now dnipro – russia is a state terrorist and the wagner group are terrorists as well. and it is time that we accept, not just in this parliament but across the entire european union, that we are dealing with an aggressor of appalling brutality and sanctions have to be brought forward swiftly and rapidly. we are in a situation where we are still taking kid gloves to putin and his cronies when it comes to sanctions. last year, when we called for gas to be sanctioned in this house, we were told we couldn’t live without russian gas. the reason we don’t have russian gas now is because putin turned the tap off, not because we said no. that’s the way we are, unfortunately, in the european union. so, we now have to accept that we have to bring forward sanctions that have a material impact on the regime that surrounds president putin. so i call for visas to be curtailed – all of the 6 700 on the navalny list. we have to seize every asset that we can across the entire globe, we have to target the bank reserves – the 300 billion bank reserves – because we owe it to the mangled bodies that are buried deep in the apartment basements of dnipro as we speak here.
member of the commission. madam president, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, we share the same reaction to the horror of the attacks perpetrated by russia in ukraine. of course, in this debate, and i thank you for it, we have noted your unwavering support for ukraine, the letter from more than 100 members of parliament and the concrete proposals for sanctions, including in the diamond sector. the commission is determined to continue its action in favour of ukraine, maintaining the unity of the member states, the unity of the union. that comes with penalties, of course. this also means military, economic, political and humanitarian support. the commission did not hesitate to quickly propose a series of strong sanctions, including in sectors such as energy, knowing the price these sanctions could have for our economies. we must continue to work towards this, but we must also implement the sanctions already decided on as effectively as possible. we have so far frozen over €21 billion from the persons and entities on the sanctions lists - unevenly across the european union - but we need to continue to step up action in each member state. we have also, with international partners, frozen the reserves of the central bank of russia. we must continue to implement these sanctions throughout the union, as i said, but we must also fight against their circumvention. it is one thing to extend the list, but it is another to make the sanctions effectively applied. that is why we have already obtained the agreement of the parliament and the council to extend the list of eurocrimes to include any circumvention or attempt to circumvent all european sanctions, which would allow us to obtain convictions in court and confiscations, and no longer simply to have freezes as they have been decided so far. we will also continue, as i said earlier, our action to fight impunity. we have worked with the ukrainian authorities, with the international criminal court, with 14 member states that have already launched investigations under their universal jurisdiction. we're going to continue. we shall discuss this later, madam president, in the context of the debate on the fight against impunity and the proposals to set up courts for the crime of aggression. i can assure you that all the proposals made in this debate will be taken into account with the member states to see how far we can go in the context of the unity of the union, i remind you, and also in consultation with our international partners. whether it is confiscation of assets, sanctions or military support, this is an approach that is always taken jointly with the member states, and also, i repeat, with international partners. i would like to thank you in any case for your unwavering support for ukraine in the face of this aggression by russia and in the face of the horrors that we have just experienced in the last few hours.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, commissioner, i will be short but very clear. the swedish presidency stands ready to facilitate further measures: economic, humanitarian, military. nothing is off the table. and once again, i would like to praise the european parliament for its support for ukraine and the excellent cooperation with the council and the commission. and i would also like to thank mr verhofstadt for your letter and for your engagement, and all of you members here in parliament who have committed to this debate. and as president metsola said this morning, we will stand with ukraine for as long as it takes.
this conversation is over.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the establishment of a court for the crime of aggression against ukraine (2022/3017 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i want to start with a word about the fact that since the beginning, of course, we tried to fight against impunity and there are many discussions about the different kind of processes to fight impunity. mais le 24 février 2022, il y a près d’un an, a débuté le plus grand conflit armé international qu’a connu le continent européen depuis la seconde guerre mondiale. la russie, membre permanent du conseil de sécurité, a violé d’une manière flagrante l’une des pierres angulaires du droit international, à savoir l’interdiction du recours à la force dans les relations internationales. dans le contexte de cette agression armée, les crimes les plus graves sont régulièrement commis en ukraine. de nombreuses personnes sont victimes d’atrocités qui défient l’imagination, nous venons encore d’en débattre. le parlement européen, dans sa résolution de mai de l’année dernière, a clairement exprimé sa plus vive indignation face à ces atrocités. vous venez encore de le répéter. votre assemblée avait aussi appelé les institutions de l’union à soutenir la coordination des différents mécanismes mis en place pour lutter contre l’impunité des crimes internationaux commis en ukraine. je souhaite rappeler l’engagement sans faille de la commission afin de garantir que des crimes d’une telle gravité ne puissent rester impunis et que leurs poursuites pénales soient effectivement assurées. depuis le début du conflit, la commission s’est investie pour que la justice internationale puisse faire son travail, et cela dans le cadre de plusieurs initiatives concernant les enquêtes sur les crimes internationaux. d’abord, nous continuons à offrir un soutien sans faille aux autorités ukrainiennes, et notamment au procureur général ukrainien, qui ont reçu pour l’heure plus de 60 000 signalements de la part de victimes et de témoins en lien avec des crimes internationaux. ensuite, quatorze états membres ont lancé des enquêtes pour de tels faits. eurojust et europol jouent un rôle crucial de coordination dans ce contexte. i welcome that, with the support of eurojust, lithuania, poland and ukraine had swiftly set up a joint investigation team at the end of march last year. estonia, latvia, slovakia and romania have joined the team as well, and so has the office of the prosecutor of the international criminal court. this is the first time that the icc has joined an eu joint investigation team. the commission continues to encourage all the member states to join the investigation team as well. it is important to collect, preserve and analyse evidence for future trials, and to ensure coordination. good cooperation is crucial between the ukrainian authorities, the icc – or the states conducting investigations – and the european bodies. this is why in spring last year, the commission proposed an urgent amendment to the eurojust regulation to allow the agency to store, analyse and exchange evidence related to international crimes. the european parliament and the council approved this amendment in record time. i want to thank you once more for backing this proposal so rapidly. the commission also continues to support the international criminal court as the leading international actor in the field of international criminal justice. as you know, the icc has already launched investigations related to the war in ukraine. as regards accountability for the crime of aggression in particular, russian leaders currently cannot be held accountable for this crime before any international jurisdiction. while the international criminal court is competent to prosecute possible war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide, this court cannot, in the case of the conflict in ukraine, exercise jurisdiction for the crime of aggression. in any case, we continue to consider that ukraine should ratify the rome statute. this would be an important signal for ukraine and from ukraine. ukraine has been advocating, in various fora, for the setting up of a special tribunal for the crime of aggression to close the gap in criminal prosecution at international level. the european union should respond in a credible and united way to the ukrainian courts, and the commission, working jointly with the high representative and vice-president of the commission, josep borrell, is ready to lead that discussion. we took note that in its resolution of may last year on the fight against impunity, your parliament has already called on the eu institutions to support the creation of a special international tribunal for the punishment of the crime of aggression. in its conclusion of october 2022, the european council invited the high representative and the commission to explore options so that full accountability for the atrocities committed in ukraine can be ensured, including for the crime of aggression. the commission, in close consultation with the high representative, prepared an options paper that was circulated to member states at the end of november. this paper identifies possible avenues for establishing an accountability mechanism that may allow for the prosecution of the crime of aggression in ukraine. the paper aims to deepen reflections on a matter that raises complex legal and political questions. these require further discussions with the member states and our international partners. the fact that the crime of aggression can, by definition, only be committed by the highest political and military leadership brings us to the issue of personnel and functional immunities. a possible tribunal set up to prosecute the crime of aggression would need, under customary international law, to have a sufficiently international character to relinquish immunities in a legitimate way, and to act on behalf of the international community. before discussions on a special tribunal could possibly get a sufficient consensus and support at the international level, an investigation mechanism would first be considered. the commission is reflecting about the possible setting up of an international prosecution office to start investigations into the crime of aggression, with a view to preserving and storing evidence for possible future trials. discussions are ongoing on the matter, in particular on legal and security issues, with several actors, such as the ukrainian authorities, eurojust and the icc. of course, we will try in the next weeks to continue to discuss the best way to organise such an international prosecution office. it will be a first level on the road to fighting against impunity in the case of the crime of aggression. of course, i am very open to listening to your remarks and proposals to see how it’s possible to make some progress in such a discussion, to have broad international support in the fight against the crime of aggression in the case of the russian aggression in ukraine.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, mr commissioner, dear colleagues, 76 years ago, the international military tribunal against the criminals who plotted and carried out aggression as evil ended at nuremberg. the world then did justice to the brown plague of nazism, but we read plague of sovietism survived. and already in 2022, russian chauvinism and military, militaristic sovietism have committed the most serious crime – the crime of aggression against ukraine, challenging the entire democratic world. a special tribunal must gather evidence, assess, name and judge the perpetrators – the russian political, military and economic leaders and their accomplices in belarus. dear colleagues, we must take urgent action to build a solid platform for international justice that will give the people of ukraine hope of justice and protect their future generations from hate and the repetition of similar crimes. justice today means stability tomorrow.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, colleagues, we are firm and quite sure: first, arms and ammunition to deliver to ukraine in order to enable this country’s full victory over the appalling aggressor, the russian federation. simultaneously, we have to ensure bringing all perpetrators of crimes to justice, all crimes – war crimes, genocide, crimes against humanity, but also the crime of aggression. since the outset, we call this invasion a ‘war of aggression’. and today we present a joint comprehensive draft resolution proposing the creation of a special tribunal to prosecute the crime of aggression and thus bringing decision-makers, both political and military, to justice.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, commissioner, when zelenskyy pushed for this special tribunal last december, he said that without justice there can be no peace. the reality is that war is the greatest injustice suffered on this earth, and too many are working hard to prolong this one. zelenskyy should be at the negotiating table, but instead tours the world selling his forever war, as ukraine is destroyed and conscripted ukrainians are killed by the tens of thousands. in the past 25 years, the imperialist powers have perpetrated wars of aggression against yugoslavia, afghanistan, iraq, syria and yemen. they’ve killed millions of people and displaced millions more, dropped toxic munitions and committed countless war crimes. nato members have never faced justice for these crimes. of course russia should also be held to account for any crimes it commits, but the list is long. if we actually care about justice, we will stop the antagonism and hypocrisy and get down to the real work of peace-making.
madam president, crimes against humanity, war crimes, crimes of aggression – unfortunately, there’s no shortage of those crimes in ukraine as i speak here tonight. having witnessed bucha and the shallow graves for young men were bound and shot in the back of the head, meeting women who had been violently raped in their homes by russian soldiers as they retreated from kyiv last april, and seeing first-hand the destruction of towns and villages north of kyiv in february and march of last year, we have no shortage of evidence, commissioner. what we need now is will – the will to act. not just the european union. the european union must show the lead; it must be the lead in this but it must build a coalition internationally of like-minded countries that are supportive of the concept of justice and the rule of law. putin is responsible for all the crimes in ukraine. he is the man that sent the russian troops to kill ukrainians, to plunder ukrainian towns, to rape ukrainian women, and to destroy the lives of multiple communities across the entirety of the country. we must show leadership and we must ask the world to follow us to ensure the rule of law is upheld and people are held accountable for the dastardly deeds and crimes in ukraine.
madam president, shocking news again today from ukraine. of course, our deepest sympathies. last saturday in europe, a pregnant woman and her husband were slaughtered, along with so many others, as the bombs rained over dnipro. madam president, as she said: a yellow kitchen, a sad reminder of lives lost and lives destroyed. as we approach the one-year anniversary of this dreadful war, it should strengthen our resolve and support for ukraine and its people. as we see from the commission, and indeed from the council, that is the direction we have to go. this is a defence of the global order. it is a defence of democracy. we must also make sure that the sanctions are monitored and implemented in an ongoing way. in relation to energy policy, we are making good progress, but we must protect the most vulnerable. this year will also mark 25 years of the good friday agreement, which ended another serious conflict. that agreement laid the foundations for a new start and a peaceful future in northern ireland. we do not want this to be put in jeopardy. commissioner, i want to thank you for your very serious, committed and patient work and for the ongoing discussions between the european commission and the uk government on the operation of the northern ireland protocol. as we approach the anniversary, let us work towards an agreement and embed a hard-won peace for all our future generations.
madam president, so europe is all aflutter now with a new industrial strategy. the swedish presidency has put competitiveness at the top of its agenda, and we hear charles michel telling politico it’s all about new ways of thinking and a can-do attitude. well, god knows, somebody needs to do something, because right now europeans wake up every single day a little poorer than they were the day before. and will this strategy fix it? i have to say, i have my doubts because the problems facing us are much bigger than some tinkering around the edges of the state aid rules. the eu is currently doing everything it can to alienate our largest trading partner, china. it is hell-bent on fanning the flames of war in what used to be our largest gas supplier, caught flat-footed by the new american protectionism and its energy-gouging. we’re flailing around now, pretending we have a plan to stop europe going underwater. well, you can be absolutely guaranteed that unless you abandon neoliberalism and start examining renationalisation in the key areas of energy and infrastructure, then you’re on a hiding to nothing.
madam president, having spoken previously in this house on the european investment bank annual reports, i was often critical when we were speaking about fraud issues and non-protection of whistleblowers. but reading this report and looking at what has been achieved in recent times, particularly guiding ourselves through the covid pandemic and the impact that that was having on real economies, real lives, small and medium-sized businesses and employment, i do welcome very much the capabilities and the competence of the eib in terms of navigating small and medium-sized businesses and broader economies through that particular crisis. i also welcome the fact that the eib has taken its previous statements, to the effect that it wanted to become the climate bank, seriously. it is now well committed to funding the transition, both in the digital economy, as well as in climate change directly itself. i do welcome very much its commitment to repowereu. we have to continue with that, both because of the geopolitical reasons with regard to the invasion of ukraine and russia’s aggression, and due to the fact that there is huge opportunity in terms of protecting the environment and the climate, as well as in terms of innovating and creating jobs in those particular areas to do with the transition and the digital economy. so i do commend the report and i welcome the continued commitment to the climate agenda.
madam president, i welcome the report. the eu and member states share responsibility in many aspects of this particular report. the eu member states’ authorities manage the largest share of eu expenditure and collection of own resources. the recovery and resilience fund over the next number of years will inject eur 1.8 trillion into the european economy in supports and grants. there are certainly the issues of money laundering, tax evasion, procurement and public contracts being awarded, and a very significant issue that we have to deal with as well is the vat gap that is consistently being highlighted. of course, if we don’t have rule of law, if we don’t have independence of police forces, tax authorities, revenue authorities, audit authorities and prosecution authorities, and ultimately the independence of the judiciary, we will always have significant challenges in holding individuals or authorities to account when they fail to do their duty at member state level in ensuring that eu funds are spent appropriately.
madam president, the playbook from the extreme right is the same time and time again: take a group of people, isolate them, dehumanise them and debase them to the point where other people start thinking that they are not human. we’ve seen this time and time again. i’d like to quote from a former mep and nobel peace laureate, john hume, who brought peace to the island of ireland, and i quote, ‘difference is the essence of humanity. difference is an accident of birth and it should therefore never be a source of hatred or conflict. the answer to difference is to respect it’. in my own country, where we don’t have an extreme far right of substance, they are outside reception centres where we are housing refugees fleeing war, protesting and harassing and haranguing them. so we would not want to dismiss the fact that the far right is alive and it has now capacity to organise through social media. it’s in this house. i have heard chants and cheers from that side of the house when we were speaking about migrants drowning in the mediterranean and in the english channel. so we don’t have to go too far to see racists in europe.
mr president, political integrity means exercising political power consistently in the public interest. lobbying has shown us that it can be a force of good when it is being ethically practised, but it can also lead to undue influence to the detriment of public interest and affect public policies when action is taken to benefit one lobbyist group. transparency is key to ensuring that policymakers, like you and i, do not give preferential treatment to interest groups. transparency promotes openness, accountability and public trust, and there is an inherent obligation on politicians to share this information with citizens, thus making those in political power accountable to citizens. today we debate uber, who themselves have stated that they massaged the facts to earn the trust of drivers, consumers and politicians. this is not acceptable. it is not acceptable to the drivers who work for them and the consumers who use their platform business. in relation to politicians, this only heightens the importance of the transparency register, and rules for lobbying are crucial to safeguard the integrity of the public decision—making process. transparent lobbying is a fundamental component of our democracy. it therefore falls to the parliament and our member states to ensure that our european citizens get the truth and all the truth.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner johansson, i have to ask you to leave. if we really want to reduce or prevent people from drowning in the mediterranean, we have to re-engineer our policy. we cannot continue to promise gold and green forests to migrants coming to europe. last year, 330,000 people entered europe illegally. that's 64 percent more than the year before. instead of rewarding illegal migration, we must be clear that if you come to europe illegally, you lose the right to seek asylum. australia is a clear and good example of this, where they have stopped people from drowning in the sea by introducing zero tolerance. all incoming boats will be turned back immediately. it is clearly communicated in the transit countries, and it is clearly communicated in the migrants' home countries. everybody knows they have zero chance. we need to do the same in europe. i think everyone in this house agrees that people should not drown in the mediterranean. we don't want this tragedy. is it not time we had a policy that actually prevents this from happening? (the speaker agreed to reply to a question ('blue card')
blue-card answer. – mr president, the problem is that people are dying, and it is because of the politics we have now. so the people we can blame is the people who are supporting the politics now – because you have blood on your hands, you’re making people die instead of saving them.
mr president, the fact that some of the charges against irish activist seán binder were dropped last week is incredibly welcome. but my god, how did we ever get to this place where 24 volunteers and activists were on trial in lesbos in a case spanning more than four years? not to mention the fact that a far, far larger number of innocent migrants are currently squandering their time in prisons in greece, charged with the crime of helping other people, an obligation in international law. of course, it’s not just greece. italy, too, criminalises this humanitarian work. latvia has just levelled criminal charges against two activists for helping syrian refugees on the belarussian border. it’s disgusting. there’s no other word for it. and it all has the tacit approval of eu governments and the european commission, who know that eu money is being used to fund repressive apparatus on europe’s borders, violating the human rights of vulnerable people fleeing wars and climate change that we caused in the first place. the same companies that benefit from this destruction benefit from the borders to keep them out. this is your europe, and it’s a very dark place indeed.
mr president, for several years now we have been observing a trend towards criminalising ngos in the member states. but this trend has reached a new level with the adoption of the italian decree on the subject at the beginning of 2023. this criminalization will further weaken humanitarian actors who are already substituting for failing governments. as we have said many times, letting people die at sea does not discourage people from coming to europe. the smoky theory of airbending is a myth that has been debunked a thousand times by experts in the field. on the other hand, this criminalization will put humanitarian actors and migrants at greater risk. and it will empower the smugglers who will once again be the big winners of these populist policies. the only solution is neither new nor revolutionary, but to re-establish genuine european search and rescue operations. then ngos will no longer have to do the work of the states or the union. international law will be respected, as will european values.
mr president, ‘close and control’ – this is what the manager of lesbos refugee camp last week told me was their policy for dealing with thousands of refugees. in a camp of barbed wire and shipping containers, it is a policy of a prison. off the coast, illegal pushbacks of people in distress continue unabated. locals and humanitarians in lesbos recounted how masked men have been seen violently kidnapping refugees. meanwhile, around 40 organisations work in constant fear of criminalisation after the example was made of seán binder, sarah mardini and over 20 search and rescue workers. any new policy on migration and asylum must include protection for humanitarians, and immediately end the vast prison camp system we have established on eu borders. as long as desperate people flee desperate situations, ‘close and control’ does not work.
madam president, i welcome this report and in particular the call for additional support and policy changes for small—scale fishers. this is incredibly, incredibly important to maintain their viability and they play a huge role in coastal communities across the european union. speaking of additional support and viability, i want to implore the eu commission and member states not to ignore the needs of commercial irish fishers. negotiations are currently ongoing over granting access to norwegian boats to irish waters to catch considerable amounts of blue whiting. norway are looking for 450 000 tonnes, 60% of which will be caught in irish waters. ireland currently has a quota of 48 000 tonnes and no prospect of an additional blue whiting quota under the current deal. this deal does nothing for irish fishers and the industry in general. in the interests of fairness and parity, irish fishers should get two things as part of the deal: an additional blue whiting quota – at the minimum it must be doubled to at least 100 000 tonnes – and, secondly, additional quota in other species as ireland lost out heavily as part of the brexit fishing deal. our fishers need additional quota to maintain viability, their families and the future of coastal fishing in ireland.
mr president, commissioner, the global gateway initiative is a major step forward in the european union's standing in the face of our competitors china and russia. €300 billion of announced investment in the environment, education, health, access to water, digital; this is the solution we hope for and need to strengthen our links with our partners. however, commissioner, the implementation is delayed. since 2021, the announcements of billions of euros have raised fantastic hopes, the promise of harmonious development, of poverty reduction. but advertising is no longer enough. we must act. the accumulation of weather hazards, droughts, crop failures and cyclones have become too frequent to delay action. the release of funds for the financing of education and mobility, both for pupils and teachers, is as essential as it is urgent. the deployment of these funds was launched at the last eu-africa summit in february, but after the intentions, there is room for immediate action, with specific programmes, regular calls for tenders, measurable deadlines and therefore actual achievements. i ask you, madam commissioner, with great hope and solemnity, to commit these funds so that the voice of the european union is heard and respected.
mr president, this geostrategic investment initiative in development ironically misses the mark of the development mandate in many ways, in terms of sustainability goals, human rights and more. it is neoliberal, in the sense that it is based on the assumption that it will mobilise or leverage resources from private investors who are effectively the dominant stakeholders. effectively tackling poverty and having a positive impact on development of recipient countries is not a likely outcome with this one—sided, risk—managed approach. international development is not a product of commercial competition. eu foreign policy shouldn’t be rooted in a geopolitical competition and bid for influence over africa with china. your obsession with china borders on lunacy. so ultimately, we see neocolonialism and neoliberal interests served by the global gateway initiative.
mr president, from africa to the western balkans we see the costs and corrosive impact of chinese investments. they undermine securities, countries, finances, human rights and the rule of law. i welcome the recent efsd+ opinion to release over eur 6 billion to support 40 investment programmes. yet this is nowhere near sufficient. between 2014 and 2018, the prc gave out more than usd 400 billion in foreign loans alone. colleagues, the democratic world is facing serious security threats from this totalitarian regime, and we need to act accordingly. first, we must move faster to deliver the necessary investments and ensure that our deeds are matched with efficient strategic communication. second, we must intensify our coordination with democratic allies, including the us – which is a response to the debate before. to conclude, generating sufficient investment for infrastructure programmes is as much a question of defending our values as well as strengthening our interests and security globally.
mr president, i just want to make one point. many of the speakers this morning have characterised this initiative as a foreign policy instrument, but it is based on the use of funds that are intended for development policy. and i think that’s the big misunderstanding here. this is based on efsd+ and the use of ndici global europe funding, over which there are very clear regulatory controls, supervisory controls and oversight by the european parliament. it has characteristics of a foreign policy instrument, but it is funded from development policy and we have to be very careful to make sure that it continues to pursue the objectives of development policy.
mr president, the global gateway is, we’re told, europe’s new flagship strategy to support infrastructures around the world and improve connectivity. but, of course, as colleagues have so eloquently revealed, it is actually to woo away african and global south countries from so—called chinese and russian influence, not because we’re the good guys and they need us, but because the chinese are getting more value and economic benefit out of it than we are. so we want our slice of the action – and, frankly, it’s pathetic! as a rival to the chinese belt and road initiative, it’s a joke! 300 billion in investments, basically rounded up by some private sector crowd—funding. the european court of auditors has slated it, a eurodad report has said it’s totally reliant on the private sector, with a total lack of transparency and not open to any scrutiny here because it’s not rooted in legislation. we should be guided on international cooperation to deal with poverty reduction, fighting inequality and climate change rather than this geopolitical nonsense.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we need a european regulatory framework to ensure the sustainable development of the european union and its member states. for example, with regard to european funds, there are clear targets, but it is not enough. we need to ensure that projects implemented with european resources are truly sustainable, including with regard to the raw materials used or the social conditions of workers, to combat, for example, unfair competition from other non-european countries. but for sustainability we also need more responsibility from the private sector, especially big business, and a sustainable tax regime. companies that have made huge profits in the context of the crises we have been through, for example energy companies, need to show solidarity, including through appropriate taxation, as proposed recently at the davos forum, by providing additional resources to states for sustainable investment. we need a standardisation of practices so that all countries can benefit from the opportunities offered, the sustainable approach and the framework provided by european regulations.
madam president, yet again, we’re seeing more rampant greenwashing. the sustainable financial disclosure regulation is clearly flawed as more than half of the dark green under article 9 are levels of investment in the fossil fuel industry and in aviation. this money with green credentials flows to investment in big oil and the likes of shell, total, bp and saudi aramco; the airline companies lufthansa, air france, klm; and to coal giants. in what world are these practices considered as not doing significant harm, as article 9 states? the greenwashing of financial markets has proven to be very lucrative, with over 619 billion invested in these funds with a promise of sustainability. the european securities and markets authority has outlined the innumerous labelling violations of dark green funds, but the enforcement of regulation has been lacking. how does the commission plan on legally defining greenwashing to enforce the sustainable finance disclosure regulation and article 9?
madam president, i think there is an irony here that we’re talking about sustainable investment funds against the backdrop of yet another scandal in terms of the eu institutions. fresh on the heels of the qatargate buying of influence, we’ve had the revelations of monthly allowances given to meps to pay for office supplies being used to purchase shares in arms, tobacco, mining and fossil fuel industries in order to finance a heavily indebted european parliament voluntary pension scheme. this included tens of thousands of shares in us arms industries which manufactured cluster munitions which were banned in 2008. and if that wasn’t bad enough, some of the monies were being paid in offshore tax havens like bermuda and the cayman islands. what’s more, the euobserver revealed that the business strategy of our pension scheme was heavily reliant on fossil fuels. the investments came at a time when parliament was passing resolutions to cut co2 emissions. at the same time, our pension scheme held 5.2 million of shares in european petrochemical companies. so, it’s a case of ‘do as i say, not as i do’. is it any wonder we have no credibility whatsoever?
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, that was interesting. i’m supposed to say a few words as a conclusion. i would like to recall that the sustainable finance disclosure regulation is still a relatively new framework. the flexibility in it was considered necessary when the file was negotiated back in 2018-2019. we’re still early days in the development of our ambitious sustainable finance agenda. now, a few years later, we look at the agreement with different eyes and with much more experience of esg. the launch of a comprehensive assessment, including workshops with industry and other stakeholders’ groups and a public consultation, will be an opportunity to take stock and see how the framework can be improved and to address, if deemed necessary, some of the shortcomings reported in the press. a word on aviation, since i am a transport commissioner and it happened that i’m attending your debate today. aviation remains a key sector for our industrial competitiveness and for the connectivity and single market. its decarbonisation is set on a clear course towards carbon neutrality, both with our refueleu aviation blending mandate, with sustainable fuels, the ets reform and kerosene taxation. all offer a strong regulatory framework for this decarbonisation path. however, without funding for new clean technologies and best-in-class aircraft, this decarbonisation will slow down. companies will be less competitive and will be stuck with old polluting planes. that is why we are currently reflecting on the scope of activities to be covered in the next delegated act on taxonomy, and we are assessing the report by the platform on sustainable finance. so, this being said, i really appreciate your contribution to the debate and, in the future, your support for this very important topic.
that concludes the debate.
the next item is the explanations of vote.
madam president, i voted against this resolution. of course russia’s invasion of ukraine was a crime of aggression, and in a just world that crime would never go unpunished. but we find ourselves in a world of our own making. this march marks the 20th anniversary of the horrific crime of aggression against iraq perpetuated by the coalition of the willing, including our very own poland, estonia, latvia, lithuania, hungary, bulgaria, romania, slovakia, the czech republic, netherlands, denmark and spain. i want to see war criminals punished. but after 20 years of impunity for the brigands who wrecked iraq, the proposal before us is just pure fantasy. international law is upheld by consensus. it either applies to all states equally or it doesn’t work. and those before us who move this motion, really the goal is not justice. it’s to scupper peace, which is the only way to stop the slaughter now. if you want to put putin behind bars, fine, but you have absolutely no credibility whatsoever unless you bring bush, blair and all his european counterparts with him.
madam president, i have condemned the nature of the crackdown on the protests in iran. the numbers of protesters killed in the streets is a travesty, and i abhor the death penalty no matter where it’s used. yet there are too many lies and omissions in this resolution, and i had to vote against it. these are peaceful protests. many young people in iran have had enough of the overbearing influence of religion on how their society is organised. if i was in iran, i’d be protesting too. but it doesn’t help matters that the us and some of its allies are looking for regime change and have boasted about getting arms to groups in iran who have also got involved in the protests. and there is no mention of the biggest killer in iran: western sanctions. our sanctions hurt the ordinary people the most; sanctions which are illegal unless authorised by the un, but the eu doesn’t seem to have a problem with ignoring the un charter these days. and this resolution is calling for more of them? absolute madness!
madam president, i oppose the death penalty categorically in any country it is used, and i abhor its use in iran as part of a crackdown against people exercising their rights to shape their own country and its laws. iran has a valid desire to keep its sovereignty, but the approach it is now taking risks losing it. meeting public anger and legitimate demands for reform with vicious state repression is not only horrific, it leaves dissenters with no peaceful options, pushing them underground, encouraging the resort to violence and opening the door for foreign interference, leading to the destabilisation of the country. imperialist meddling is a fact, but it is not an excuse. the choice is stark: bend or break. if there is no justice for its victims, and demands are not urgently addressed, then i am fearful for iran’s future. i would have supported the motion, but it goes far beyond what is acceptable in a human rights resolution. un action is of course right. i support that. but colleagues here are throwing in geopolitical demands, trying to sabotage nuclear talks, dragging in the war in ukraine, blocking constructive engagement and pushing for more failed sanctions that have only made things worse, so i voted against.
madam president, the report is silent on the european investment bank’s strategic european security initiative and the relentless attempts by the council, the commission, the european defence agency, as well as the arms industry to undermine the restrictions that prevent the eib from investing in arms and core defence projects. the eib strategic european security initiative commits financing of up to eur 6 billion to dual—use projects seeking to develop security and defence systems in europe. the eib also signed a programme agreement establishing a cooperative financial mechanism with the european defence agency in 2019. in its 2022 roadmap on critical technologies for security and defence, on page 7, the commission laments the fact that the eib’s lending policy still has restrictions that prevent it from lending to the defence sector. how bad! the eib should have nothing to do with the arms industry, nor should it finance anything that can double up as weapons, arms or military software or hardware.
madam president, blue whiting are in our irish waters at a time of year when they are in prime condition for food production and so close to our ports that ireland needs to ensure that a fair and equitable access agreement is negotiated by the eu commission with norway. irish fish that swim, spawn and breed in irish waters need to be a benefit for the people of ireland who are closest to the resource, as prescribed under the united nations convention on the law of the sea. sadly, irish fishing boats are allowed to catch no more than 3.9% of the stock in our own waters. it’s to be welcomed that norway’s recent attempt to secure unfettered access to our blue whiting grounds has been challenged by the eu commission. it’s long past time for irish coastal communities to be given a fair share of the fish that’s born and bred in irish waters. it’s only fair.
madam president, 50 years ago, ireland joined the european union. norway did not. fifty years on, norway’s fish exports are worth 14 billion, where ireland’s are worth half a billion. there is a direct link between the two. ireland has had to suffer its third decommissioning scheme, slashing the size of its fleet while norway’s keeps growing and growing. and the shafting of our fisheries as price for european union membership has long been an open secret. but it’s gone on long enough. it’s long past time irish fishers were given a fair share of our own waters. how is it right that belgium has access to 67% of our sole, where we have only 3%? and despite the claims, of the 72 stocks in irish waters, only 3 are overfished, and they’re not overfished by irish fishers. we need a review. we need the input of those who do the fishing and we need a deal for the amounts not used. i voted for this motion.
mr president, europe’s population is aging. over the next 30 years, our active workforce will decrease by 50 million. without migration, we face enormous problems to keep our societies going. yet we have the senseless spectacle of governments all over europe freaking out about the pensions time bomb, while at the same time standing over migration and asylum policies designed to violently keep out the very young people who could defuse that bomb. our already—overwhelmed health services will sink altogether without the migration needed to redress the balance between young and old. our political attitudes to migration, frankly, are a form of collective lunacy. at the end of 2021, the share of refugees in the eu was 0.6% compared to its total population – 0.6%! it’s embarrassing that we spend so much time on this tiny number of people. this is not a hard problem to deal with. it’s actually not a problem at all. it’s an opportunity. we need safe and legal pathways for people who want to come here. stop pushing them back. stop sending them back. stop beating them at the borders. stop allowing the opportunists on the right to set the terms of this debate. let people in. let them access good jobs and let them guarantee, in that, a future for europe.
mr president, if the eu wants a sustainable solution in the area of asylum and migration, it should end all its support to nato and the military industrial complex. we need to stop bombing people’s homes. we should stop sending arms into conflict zones. we should pursue a policy of peace and diplomacy in ukraine. we should stop impoverishing the people of the global south with financial imperialism. the eu must immediately end the systematic criminalisation of asylum seekers, end pushbacks and end the externalisation of the eu’s borders now. abolish frontex. the eu rightly acted quickly to provide protection and reception conditions to millions of ukrainians in a matter of months under the temporary protection directive. this proves that humane treatment of non-ukrainian asylum seekers and refugees from syria, afghanistan and libya is absolutely possible. we should welcome people fleeing persecution or repression from all places and not be selective about it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. transparency and the fight against foreign interference in european democracy are our top priorities. unfortunately, however, the text under vote risks severely restricting freedom of expression on the web. by imposing strict obligations and heavy penalties on service providers, which are in part contrary to the newly enacted digital services legislation, there is a risk of widespread censorship by the service providers themselves. similarly, the line between political advertising and political communication has become too thin and providing the same rules for what is a paid service and what is not will also end up fuelling preventive censorship. we believe that on such an important issue we need a pause to reflect on the need to arrive at more coherent and orderly legislation, which will defend our democracy against foreign interference and will tackle the real illegal practices, while guaranteeing freedom of expression to the full.
madam president, of course we need transparency in political advertising, but this regulation is in danger of creating more problems than it solves. it mischaracterises the mere expression of political ideas and civic engagement as political advertising. this would impose severe obligations on individuals and civil society and therefore hinder democratic discourse and public participation. the eu’s so—called ‘war on disinformation’ has little to do with protecting the public from false or dangerous content, and more to do with censoring and suppressing dissenting voices. so much of the moral panic in relation to political advertising comes from the cambridge analytica scandal. yes, the company clearly broke facebook’s terms of service, but the reality is that, after a three-year investigation, the uk information commissioner’s office found no evidence that cambridge analytica misused data to influence the brexit referendum. the people of the uk voted for brexit because too many felt let down by the eu’s neoliberal policies, and the people of america voted for trump because they were tired of the democrats’ neoliberal policies and obama’s endless wars.
madam president, i was the shadow for the libe opinion on this file and i’d really like to be getting behind it for the things that it’s trying to achieve – but it doesn’t achieve them, so i can’t. in fact, it’s a major intervention by the eu into the political culture of its member states, which will have far—reaching implications for freedom of political expression, for civil society, for the media and for citizens. now, the regulation places a range of complex obligations not just on politicians, but on every single civil society actor, on every grassroots network, every group of neighbours, every activist, on anyone who seeks to intervene in public debates on laws or regulations, and who spends any sum of money at all on advertising, including posters and leaflets. if they fail to fulfil their obligations, they will face sanctions and penalties, and you can be damn sure that political opponents will be making sure and jumping on the chance of the slightest hint of an error or an omission. if this was about politicians only i’d support it. if it was a directive i’d support it, if it was about targeting i’d support it, and if it succeeded in truly dealing with the pernicious effect of big money advertising and protecting political advertising, i would agree with it. but it does none of these things. it’s an overreach, it’s worrying. it’s not the eu’s job to regulate political expression.
madam chair, we have asked for clarity on the council's reasons for the delay in taking a decision on the delegated act, so i thank minister jessica roswell for the explanations provided. it is important for all of us that the fight against money laundering is conducted effectively, not only at the internal level, i mean throughout the european union, but also at the international level, because dirty money knows no borders. in this context, our approach to jurisdictions with strategic weaknesses in financial crime protection is of paramount importance. i therefore understand the impatience of the other political groups on this matter, but we must not forget that we are still within the normal procedure and there is no room for serious concern. we must approach this responsibly, based on facts, not bias. this is the way to build an adequate common european position towards high-risk third countries. a position that is as free as possible from any political interest or lobbying behind the scenes. i would, however, urge the council to take a decision on the delegated act as soon as possible.
madam president, madam president-in-office of the council, anything that strengthens the european union's unity in the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism is going in the right direction and has the strong support of this european parliament. of course, the delegated act has it, the list of third countries with a high risk of money laundering. but it is also important that the swedish presidency is working hard to push forward the new anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing package, which consists of no less than five new regulations, including the european anti-money laundering authority. but the work will not be complete until we are able to fulfil the persistent mandate of this european parliament to also put an end to all that makes it possible to launder money from illicit business on the territory of the european union, through the leeway of its member states. we are talking about golden visas and golden passports, which have been absolutely banned by this european parliament. and the work will not be complete until we have removed them completely from the legislation of the member states of the european union.
madam president, if you read down the eu’s anti-money laundering blacklist, one of the things that immediately strikes you is that not one of the countries on the list is majority white and not one of them is what we would call the west. because this blacklist is biased and inconsistent and has a lot more to do about lobbying power than a genuine assessment of risk. vanuatu, one of the world’s poorest countries, is on the list. yet the eu says that the criteria for inclusion is about the economic relevance of the third country jurisdiction for the eu and the systemic impact on the integrity of our financial systems. seriously? vanuatu, with a gdp of 9% of greece’s, is a threat to our financial integrity? is it not really the fact that we’re picking countries that can’t kick us back? nothing being said about the netherlands, nothing about ireland, nothing about the us, nothing about the uae, which is currently leaning on the eu to keep it off the blacklist. and they’ll probably succeed, because we want their oil, just as the qataris would have succeeded, if they’d only just stopped to bribe us with oil.
madam president, the countries on this list are all non-white global south countries. it’s uncannily similar to the eu’s tax haven blacklist. the rules are applied unilaterally and are often imposed on acutely vulnerable former european colonies. for centuries, european economies were built and sustained on the backs of the very colonies which are now desperate to survive and compete in whatever limited way they can. yet the eu is destroying the ability of these weaker states to compete by weaponising its unilaterally, disproportionately and unfairly applied rules on tax and anti—money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism list. how can we accept the methodology for this list when the us is not on the list? the us financed al-qaeda in syria. the us financed the mujahedin in afghanistan. the us gives almost 4 billion every year to the settler—colonial apartheid state of israel which carries out state terrorism against the people of palestine. why aren’t they on the list?
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, the taliban regime in afghanistan is reversing the progress of the last 20 years, which we helped to build. life in the country is becoming a misery. half of its population – afghan women and girls – have become victims of gender apartheid. we, as the european union, and the rest of the world cannot accept this situation and remain silent. the united nations framework with active participation of islamic countries need to be used to find a solution and to promote the transition from the taliban’s political—social totalitarian regime towards a balanced situation. aid to afghanistan must continue in the context of restoring and ensuring the rights of women and girls. for the sake of afghan’s present and future generations, we must not allow the taliban to further isolate the country, erase afghanistan from the world map and allow the gender apartheid.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, i find it a bit hard to take some of the hand—wringing in here about the terrible plight of women and girls in afghanistan when, outside of these doors, hundreds of young afghans are on the streets of brussels without a bed, without enough food, and we say nothing, when the claims of hazara genocide are met with silence and our borders locked to them, when six times as many afghan households are fleeing the impact of drought than they were two years ago with 3.2 million children acutely malnourished, two thirds of the population dependent on humanitarian aid – 4 million more than last year – and hardly ten people out of 700 could bother to come in here and even talk about it. well, i’m glad to see the leaked documents from november, when the commission had finally woken up to the fact that humanitarian aid is not enough, no matter who distributes it. but even the conservative human rights watch has acknowledged that the shortfalls in food, education and health will not be met without a plan that involves the taliban. we might hate it, but it’s the reality. otherwise, we’re condemning millions of afghans to poverty, misery, death and destruction. the afghan people don’t deserve to be punished as retribution for the west losing its unjust war. we have to lift the sanctions. we have to unfreeze the financial flows. we have to let the afghans survive and live. shutting our minds and closing our eyes is not good enough any longer!
madam president, dear commissioner, according to the international committee of the red cross, 55% of the afghan population is in dire need of humanitarian assistance. and numbers are set to rise due to the winterisation of the crisis. the decision to ban women from working in the public sector is not only unacceptable in itself, but it also constitutes a crime against humanity as it directly hampers the delivery of the humanitarian aids. therefore, apart from expanding our individual sanctions to the taliban leadership, we should also submit a formal request to the international criminal court to investigate and prosecute those responsible. nevertheless, we ask you, madam commissioner, to encourage and support the united nations and engage ngos to find workarounds that can prevent the halt of the humanitarian assistance. dear colleagues, we cannot look the other way while children, women and men, to which we promised a better future, are starving and do not have access to medicines. while we strongly and unwaveringly condemn the abhorrent policies put in place by the taliban regime, we must do all we can for avoiding that afghanistan becomes the hell on earth.
madam president, madam commissioner, we should not close our eyes after our retreat from afghanistan and forget about the peacebuilding efforts of the last decades. we should not let apartheid against women flourish. with the takeover by the taliban, the humanitarian situation in afghanistan has severely deteriorated, and i deeply deplore the recent ban by the taliban of all the activities of female aid workers. in a humanitarian crisis, women and children are the most vulnerable, and it is often female aid workers that can deliver the highly—needed assistance to these groups and reach the most remote communities. i call on the eu diplomatic service therefore to work on the removal of these restrictions and to make further humanitarian aid conditional on lifting this ban. furthermore, more needs to be done against the threat posed by terrorist groups that reside, train and operate in afghanistan. while the international engagement in afghanistan was exactly to fight against terrorism, these groups are getting stronger again. they form a danger for afghani people, their neighbouring countries and the wider world. mistakes from the past should not be repeated. security should be safeguarded.
i have to say, madam president, the taliban have issued 35 decrees against girls and women. they're pushing the process of making themselves invisible even further. now afghan women are no longer allowed to work for international organizations and ngos. thousands of women are unable to feed their families. health care is on the verge of collapse. women and girls are excluded from health care. lives are at stake. the eu's asylum agency concluded last week that afghan women and girls are generally at risk of persecution and therefore eligible for refugee status in the eu. as a result, the danish refugee complaints board has now decided to follow an existing approach of sweden and the asylum agency to consider women and girls from afghanistan as a group of convention refugees. all eu member states must follow this. the commission must finally launch an eu programme to welcome afghan refugees. we owe it to the women and girls and the people of afghanistan.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, more than a million girls in afghanistan are unable to go to school. banning girls from education not only denies a fundamental right, but also deprives afghanistan of the professional, cultural, economic and social contribution of women, because without women's work the country will not be able to recover from the current situation, which sees 97% of the population living in poverty and 20 million people suffering from acute hunger. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. they are the ones who are now victims of violence, torture and sexual abuse, without access to legal and health care. i call on the european institutions to support the granting of temporary visas to afghan girls and women so that they can find a safe environment in europe and escape from hell. we do not turn off the spotlight on afghanistan, we continue to denounce the abuse and violence suffered by women at the hands of the taliban. let's not leave them alone.
madam president, at the beginning of the 20th century, afghanistan was a pretty promising country. by the end of the 20th century, the country was in shambles. as much as we made a series of mistakes in afghanistan, it's clear that this country had at least some hope. i think we can't abandon the afghan people who trusted us. and it's important that we unequivocally condemn the violence that is being perpetrated against women, because it is indeed violence, it is apartheid, i completely agree with that, violence against minorities, the draconian punishments that have been imposed, these are all completely unacceptable ways of the afghan regime and the sources that it is being funded by must be stopped. and we also need to stop terrorist and religious jihadist groups. i think it is also important to say that it is good that we are talking about afghanistan here in parliament, but we also have to realize that there are also a number of really hungry and abandoned afghans in the european union.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, i spoke in the january plenary imploring ngos to stay the course and to fight the ban on female staff working in ngos in afghanistan. ngos were right to suspend programmes, and in many cases, of course, they had no choice. now there is some progress, and i commend martin griffiths and amina mohammed of the un for taking the time to visit afghanistan. clearly they have extracted some concessions. it’s also clear that the taliban is not homogenous and that there are agreements being made at local levels and that they have extracted guidelines from the taliban to allow exemptions for female workers. humanitarian principles, however, should be applied, and principled aid means female workers and practical aid means female workers. i would also commend the idea of humanitarian visas for afghanistan, but would also suggest there is no reason why we should not apply the temporary protection directive to those who are now almost inevitably fleeing afghanistan.
mr president, the aftermath of nato’s criminal intervention in afghanistan worsens every day. at the centre of the humanitarian disaster is washington’s assets freeze and the fear it creates among foreign banks about breaching restrictions. twenty—eight million people will be in need of humanitarian assistance this year, and the taliban are a total nightmare. what is europe’s response? we want to weaponise our tariff system in order to threaten afghanistan and force them to take back people fleeing this disaster that we helped to create. we have to stop punishing afghanistan. we must pressure the us to unfreeze the assets, and we must provide assistance to other countries in the region bearing the brunt of the crisis, like iran and pakistan, both suffering already from sanctions and natural disasters, and they’re struggling to cope with the refugees. and we have to stop fuelling the war in ukraine and work for peace instead. the war is compounding multiple problems all over the world, affecting billions of lives.
mr president, later this month the european parliament plans to send a delegation of meps to palestine. it comes at a time when 35 palestinians and seven israelis have been killed in january alone. just last week, the president of israel addressed this parliament and said that his country is, i quote, “open to criticism, like all members in the family of nations”. yet, this time last year, our delegation of meps was barred from travelling to the west bank and gaza, where israel controls almost every facet of palestinian life. this is not the behaviour of a country that is ‘open to criticism’. meps must be allowed to travel through israel this month to assess the situation in palestine. if they are not, this house must back its meps with swift action.
mr president, in august 2020, we were shocked to see footage from a cell at charleroi airport showing belgian police officers brutally attacking a slovak man, jozef chovanc, who subsequently died. in a letter, parliament called for a swift investigation of the case and for fair accountability. the same shock was caused by the recent decision of the belgian prosecutor's office that no criminal responsibility was incurred by the police officers who intervened against jozef chovanc. and i ask myself how is it possible that in the heart of the european union, where we are anxiously watching for any signs of a breakdown of the rule of law, a decision is being made that seems to be in direct conflict with fair treatment and the right to a fair trial? i therefore call for immediate attention to this case and coordinated action to ensure a proper and fair investigation.
mr. president, on january 1, 2023, we celebrated the 30th anniversary of the peaceful partition of czechoslovakia, and thus of the creation of the independent slovak republic. i consider this a significant milestone that deserves not only to be celebrated but also to be looked back on and appreciated for all that we have achieved in the era of independence. slovakia gradually became a member of all important international organisations and in 2004, almost 20 years ago, of the european union. thanks to the work and commitment of the left-wing government, we joined schengen in 2009 and have been using the euro since then. we have thus protected our citizens significantly from economic fluctuations, and even today we benefit more from this common currency than countries that have retained their currencies. i am delighted that this year croatia has joined us in schengen and the euro area, and our citizens can travel freely to all the seas of europe without borders. the slovak presidency of the european union in 2016 is still perceived as very successful, which is also positive. we may not always have the same views and attitudes on the issues we face, but we have always been a constructive partner in the discussion as a country.
mr president, in galicia, where i come from, more than 7 600 girls and boys are without a paediatrician. 194 municipalities have no pediatric service. there is a tendency towards centralisation which leaves part of the territory without services. in addition, the situation continues to worsen, as more than 25% of active paediatricians are over 63 years old. paediatric care is an essential service to ensure the quality of medical care for children and adolescents who require specialised care. the deterioration of public health in the spanish state is a fact. health expenditure in relation to gross domestic product is below the eu average and in galicia the situation is worse. there are protests for the basic right of our girls and boys to be treated equally as elsewhere in europe and to have a paediatrician in every municipality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am elected from france, and more specifically from the somme in picardy, the first beet-growing region in france. i want to speak for tens of thousands of french farmers here, and in fact for an entire sector which is in danger of dying as a result of a decision which is disproportionate and, i believe, totally unsuitable for the ecological objective pursued. the decision of the european court of justice to require beet growers to immediately and outright discontinue neonicotinoids in the member states is unprecedentedly brutal. insecticides are essential to protect beet crops from attack by aphids. you cannot ignore that the decision by the macron government to impose the decision of the european union will lead to the proliferation of aphids, the fall in beet yields and, consequently, the bankruptcy of farms. instead of giving researchers and farmers time to find alternative treatments, the french minister of agriculture announced that he was giving in to brussels' directives, which were disastrous for the french beet industry. the french government prefers to abandon farmers in the countryside rather than displease its friends in the european union. you are allowing them to sell even more sugar today, especially cane sugar from south america. (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, i would like to thank you. toothpaste, perfume and sunscreen are three products that are at risk of disappearing if the commission's proposal is adopted. its draft new cosmetics regulation would fragment the market for these products. the eu's worldview is once again colliding with reality. bureaucrats find substances that are "dangerous". fluoride is dangerous in toothpaste. in sunscreen, the uv protection is the bad, and in perfume, the ethanol is the scary. but these substances are not dangerous if used properly and in small amounts. take fluoride, for example. it's dangerous to get too much fluoride, but in toothpaste, it's been shown to be very good for dental health. why limit such things? why make life more complicated and boring for ordinary people? it's not dangerous to have fresh teeth. it's not dangerous to smell good. so stop this nonsense now and leave the people alone!
mr president, two points on the growth of gdp in portugal last year, the highest since 1987. first, this growth is accompanied by the largest decline in the weight of wages in gdp over the same period. real wages have fallen, workers have lost purchasing power, many are impoverished at work. economic groups increase their profits, increase inequalities and injustices. this is a reality that is inseparable from the guidelines, pressures and impositions of the european union, to which successive governments have been subjected, from the attacks on collective bargaining, from the wage restrictions in the public sector, from the disinvestment in public services and the social functions of the state. secondly, despite the economic bias of this growth and the exceptional circumstances which explain it, it exposes the absurdity of insisting on debt reduction through budgetary surpluses of the dictatorship of the deficit. as it turns out, economic growth is the path to faster and more sustained debt reduction.
president, on the night of 20 to 21 july 2020, the plane carrying french president macron was in hot gear at brussels airport. the negotiations on the european corona fund are over. prime minister mark rutte has said no. the netherlands refuses to accept an eu recovery plan. but then it happens! the telephone of the president of the european council, charles michel, is ringing. it's prime minister rutte. on orders from his d66 deputy prime minister sigrid kaag, he's willing to negotiate. the result: over eur 800 billion of eu common debt on account of the dutch aaa guarantee. today, macron comes begging again, this time for a green industrial fund. mark rutte says no again. but who believes him anymore? mr president, we must change this. member states and governments must take their own responsibility. the dutch taxpayer cannot continue to do that for them. for ja21, it's no, and it's still no.
mr president, on 6 march last year the security services of ukraine, the sbu, arrested the first secretary of the ukrainian komsomol, mikhail kononovich, and his brother, aleksander. they were accused of treason and spreading pro-russian views. these two young communists are subjected to physical and psychological torture, beatings, lashings, sleep deprivation and threats of execution. political repression of communists, peace activists and progressive forces is common in both ukraine and russia. if russians do it, it’s a travesty. yet, when ukrainians do it, it is to spread democracy and representing european values. member states are divided on speeding up accession for ukraine, and rightly so. the level of corruption is comical. the zelenskyy government empowers far-right extremists and neo-nazis while destroying workers’ rights and banning 12 opposition parties – and, as we can see from the case of the kononovich brothers, are busy persecuting them. we cannot just ignore this oppression! we can start by calling for the release of these two men.
mr president, many mountain regions, but also structurally handicapped regions, poor regions, are still declining, depopulated as if they had no future. they are not attractive to young people, development is rather stagnant, and at the same time it must be said that these regions are actually abandoned, abandoned in our european union. it seems that cohesion policy is failing in some areas, that our just transition fund is not working as we envision it. unfortunately, many regions are instead acting as funnels, as poles of growth, where everyone wants to live. i think we need to tackle these issues of the failure of our cohesive regional policy much better than we have done so far. it is important to make agriculture attractive, it is important to find attractive lucrative jobs and opportunities for many businesses in these regions. otherwise, our countryside will become depopulated and stagnant.
mr president and fellow members of the european parliament, last week we paid tribute to the memory of the victims of the holocaust, including the memory of the roma families who were victims of this unimaginable violence and whose descendants, many of whom are still experiencing some form of discrimination and exclusion. that is why this house forced the hungarian presidency to adopt a european roma strategy in 2010, 2011, and then this house will review this european roma strategy in 2020, which also affected the poorest non-roma. but now, after covid and the war, we need the swedish presidency, which is being strengthened by us, by the parties, by all the parties, to be able to bring this issue to the council table. there was a famine in these communities. we are basically starting from scratch, so i ask that the all-party roma resolution for april 8th, international roma day, be supported by everyone, including the swedish presidency.
mr president, i had my name on the list. i was told that there wasn’t enough time and there were too many speakers, but we’ve only had 27. we still have time and some people didn’t turn up. so i’m just wondering what the story is. i can go on? thank you so much, i really appreciate it, you are a gentleman. italian anarchist alfredo cospito is on his 105th day of hunger strike against the ‘41—bis’ prison regime under which he is incarcerated. it’s a prison regime which authorises the violation of human rights: no phone calls, no parcels, no mixing with other prisoners, 22—hour lockup, one visit a month; a prison regime condemned by the european court of human rights for breaching two of its articles. yet this regime continues to exist in an eu member state, unchallenged in our so-called democracies. alfredo has lost over 40 kilos. his potassium levels have dropped. he will die unless action is taken. the minister for justice, who must rule on the revocation by 12 february 12, has said he’s going to leave the decision to the judiciary until 7 march. this is a death sentence. alfredo doesn’t have that time left. so the question is, will the eu remain silent? this is a human rights issue. over 200 jurists and lawyers have condemned his treatment. 41—bis must be revoked. save alfredo cospito.
thank you, colleague. this is not a question of gentlemen likeness. and don’t mix up with the standby-queue at ryanair.
mr president, the definition of a gentleman, my colleague says, is someone who treats others the way they would like to be treated themselves. and i very much appreciate your intervention and understanding.
mr president, believe it or not, the definition was first spoken by francis bacon in the 17th century in britain. and when someone challenged him and asked him what was a gentleman or a lady, he said it’s one who treats others as he would like to be treated by them.
yes, but i’m sure that francis bacon also would have judged that the 30—minute-speech topic is not a question for the ryanair standby queue.
the next meeting will be held on thursday, 2 february 2023, at 8.30 a.m. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, i would like to thank the european parliament for its strong and continued engagement on ukraine. your interest in the preparations of tomorrow’s 24th eu—ukraine summit is much welcome. this will be the first summit since russia launched its full—scale invasion and also the first one since ukraine was granted eu candidate status. the eu will use this occasion to reiterate our message loud and clear: the eu is strongly condemning russia’s unprovoked and unjustified war of aggression against ukraine and it will continue supporting ukraine as long as it takes – politically, financially, militarily and with humanitarian aid. in response to russia’s aggression and with the support of this parliament, the eu has so far mobilised over eur 37 billion, including eur 18 billion on macro—financial support packages for 2023. the estimated total amount of eu and member state military support is above eur 12 billion. this brings the overall support of the eu and its member states to ukraine close to eur 50 billion. in addition, the eu has offered assistance to the millions of ukrainians who have fled the war. our combined pressure on russia and other responsible actors through nine packages of sanctions is also unprecedented, cutting off russia from the technology and revenues it needs to continue its war of aggression. we will continue working on the restrictive measures and their full implementation. honourable members, eu—ukraine bilateral relations are stronger than ever. ukraine has obtained the status of eu candidate country. tomorrow the eu leaders will reiterate our support and encouragement to ukraine’s reform efforts, which are particularly impressive considering these difficult times, and we will commit to further deepening our relationship, including through the new priority action plan for the dcfta 2023-2024, easing ukraine’s access to our internal market. at tomorrow’s summit, the eu will reconfirm its support to ukraine’s swift relief and reconstruction, from everything from demining to health and rehabilitation. the eu will reiterate our support for president zelenskyy’s initiative for just peace and underline the eu’s commitment to working with ukraine to mobilise broad international support. it is important to underline ukraine’s genuine stance for peace – russia has not displayed such a willingness. on the contrary, russia continues intensifying its brutal war of aggression with global consequences, including when it comes to food security. honourable members, allow me to praise once again the active and swift support of this parliament for the eu’s macro—financial assistance to ukraine. ukraine now has a predictable financing schedule for this year. ukraine receives the first tranche of eur 3 billion when no other international funds for 2023 had yet reached the country. we also welcome this parliament’s strong political stance expressed in various resolutions in support of ukraine and condemning russia’s blatant violation of the international order. let me be clear: those responsible for war crimes and the other most serious crimes will be held accountable. we will continue supporting the investigations by the international criminal court. there can be no impunity of the crimes committed under russian occupation. we will also need to work to ensure accountability for the crime of aggression. tomorrow’s summit will once again demonstrate that the eu will continue supporting ukraine for as long as it takes. thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear minister, honourable members, today and tomorrow the first ever college—to—government meeting with ukraine and the 24th eu—ukrainian summit will take place in kiev. they will send a very clear message to ukraine and beyond about our continued unwavering support to ukraine for as long as it takes and our collective strength and resolve in countering russia’s brutal aggression. the college—to—government meeting and the summit will provide an opportunity to take stock of the union’s ongoing support to ukraine across all areas, including financial, humanitarian, energy, budget support, military support and diplomatic outreach. we will discuss the reform efforts by ukraine, the further alignment of its legislation with the eu acquis, and we will outline further steps to enhance sectoral cooperation. ukraine’s destiny is in europe. our common european path was decided last june by granting the status of candidate country to ukraine. the commission will support ukraine throughout the whole accession process, despite the continuing ruthless attacks of the aggressor we are seeing a major momentum of reforms in ukraine. of course, as we well know, the eu accession path is a marathon, not a sprint. the european council will decide on the next steps unanimously. the discussions in kiev today and tomorrow will focus on reform priorities and the steps necessary to help ukraine further align its legislation to the union acquis, following the commission’s analytical report which was just published complementing the commission’s opinion on ukraine’s eu membership application. to support the reform process and increase ukraine’s resilience, we are announcing a new support package worth eur 400 million, including eur 145 million in humanitarian assistance and eur 305 million in bilateral cooperation. the commission also confirmed to the ukrainian government that the setting up of the secretariat of the multi—agency donor coordination platform in brussels is progressing well, including preparation for secondments from g7 countries and other partners. this announcement followed the first meeting, on the 26 january, of the steering committee of the donor coordination platform. the coordination platform will be key to help match needs and resources for ukraine’s repair, recovery and reconstruction efforts. ukraine’s accession process works together with its integration of the internal market. the basis of our relationship was already strong, with the association agreement and its deep and comprehensive free trade area. the suspension of all tariffs and trade defence measures on ukraine imports through autonomous trade measures has benefited both sides despite the very difficult circumstances. we will propose to extend these measures soon. we will also discuss with ukraine our support across all relevant areas, such as ukraine’s association to additional eu programmes which will strengthen its economy. moreover, president von der leyen will propose a suspension of ukraine’s financial contributions for participation in union programmes for as long as ukraine’s financial challenges remain. as we urgently continue to cut off russia’s fossil fuel imports, a memorandum of understanding on renewables and gases will also be endorsed. the strategic partnership in this area reflects the significant potential in ukraine and the high degree of integration of renewables in the energy market and in infrastructure. ukraine’s reconstruction cannot be dissociated from russia’s responsibility for its war of aggression. the atrocities committed by russia in ukraine will not go unpunished and all options are on the table to ensure full investigation and prosecution. we support the development of an international centre for the prosecution of the crime of aggressions in ukraine, in the hague. the objective would be to coordinate investigations of the crime of aggressions against ukraine and preserve and store evidence for future trials. this coordination centre would be linked to the existing joint investigation team supported by eurojust. russia’s military aggression has shown that ukraine belongs to europe. we share the same values, the same aspiration for democracy and freedom, and we will stay united for as long as it takes.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. what can you say in one minute? first, ukraine must win this war, or it will go on forever. this is in the interests of ukraine, of europe and of the whole of the free world. secondly, we must continue to provide our full support for as long as it is needed. there is broad agreement on this. this applies to political support, military support, financial support, humanitarian support. i also very much agree with what the commissioner said: russian crimes must also be systematically recorded so that we can draw the appropriate legal consequences. what we call it then remains to be seen. the crime of aggression must be charged. reconstruction must be closely combined with the requirements of the accession process. this means that there must be no return to the old structures, but that they must be reformed at the same time as the reconstruction. we must also ensure that the wrong structures are not built up during the war or that laws are not passed that are not compatible with eu law at the end of the day. here too, during the war, care must be taken that no wrong tendencies are used.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. in the last year we have witnessed the suffering of the ukrainian people. the european union, consistent and firm in defending the sovereignty and territorial integrity of states, has provided ukraine with assistance in all areas: political, humanitarian, military and economic, as well as in the fight against impunity. the eu and its member states are the main supporters of ukraine. the summit in kiev today and tomorrow must serve to strengthen not only the unity between ukraine and the european union but also the unity of our member states. only when we are united can we move forward, make progress and build trust. our response to putin has shown the potential of the european union when it comes to making difficult decisions. at the summit in kiev, putin must know our true power. for every refugee who is forced to flee his or her home, we will respond with the extraordinary humanity and solidarity of our societies. for every hospital, house and school destroyed, we will use all our sanctioning power until we have invested in the reconstruction of ukraine the more than 300 billion euros of the frozen russian reserves. for every home that putin leaves without electricity, heating and hot water, we will build the necessary water pipelines until europe's energy sovereignty is a reality. for every man, woman and child viciously murdered by putin, we will make him pay in the face of international justice. and for every cry for help from president zelenski, we will respond with the full force of our military capabilities. the sending of heavy weapons is a difficult decision, but one that is necessary if we are to avoid a stalemate that will freeze the war to the point of turning ukraine into ashes. putin cannot win the war, and only hopes for a victory from the exhaustion of ukraine and the exhaustion of allies on both sides of the atlantic. the military support is essential to halt the half million troops that russia will deploy in the spring, to return to the positions before 24 february last and to guarantee the ukrainian government a possible peace negotiation on favourable terms. the victory of ukraine will not only allow the european dream of its own people to live on, but it must be the reward our societies deserve for their enormous sacrifice since the beginning of the war. turning on the heating or lighting, shopping or filling up the car's tank involve personal sacrifices that need the constant support of public authorities. the eu-ukraine summit should also serve to send a clear message to the ukrainian authorities on their way to the european union: ukraine needs a rule of law with strong institutions that protect citizens and guarantee their rights. the end of the road will be a ukraine that receives and contributes to the european union what the european union provides and receives from each member state: democracy, economic growth and social cohesion. the european union is one of the world's great powers. we are a brave, supportive and open power to the world. a responsible power pursuing peace. with confidence in our union, there is reason to continue to look to the future with hope. and it is the responsibility of the ukrainian people and of the rest of european societies that aspire to live in a free world to continue to decide our fate together.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. i have listened very carefully to all the speakers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i must confess that i am absolutely appalled at how little in all the speeches so far has been made about the need to return to peace in ukraine as soon as possible. of course russia has started this terrible war of aggression against ukraine. of course, our solidarity is with ukraine and above all with the civilian population, which is suffering so terribly in this war, and the attacks on civilian infrastructure by russia in ukraine are criminal. but all this does not allow us to fall into a purely military tunnel vision and talk only about arms deliveries, military support and the training of soldiers. quite the opposite! it is precisely this terrible war that imposes on us as european parliamentarians the responsibility of seeking ways of achieving peace. the brazilian president lula has made an offer to the international community to launch a peace initiative together with the power - that is, china - which is probably the most politically able to exert pressure on russia and putin. i think that the european summit, the heads of state and government, must send a signal to support him in this. and since no one from european politics seems to have thought of it yet: it is time to get on the plane, mrs von der leyen, mr president macron, mr chancellor scholz, to go to beijing, to brasilia, to new york, to the united nations, and to work seriously on such a peace initiative. calling for diplomacy and negotiations to bring about a lasting end to this war is not a show of partiality for putin. our solidarity with ukraine is manifold: we demand a debt reduction, targeted sanctions against the oligarchs, humanitarian aid, financial support for reconstruction and yes, the eu accession perspective for ukraine is also correct. but the best help is and remains to do everything possible to bring this miserable war to an end as soon as possible, and to make real use of all the possibilities for this - including and especially the civil mechanisms for resolving conflicts, that is, diplomacy and talks. i hope that this house will soon be more reflective and that the logic of war will be replaced by a logic of peace.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. hungary condemns the russian aggression. we stand with the aggressed side and stand for the independence and territorial integrity of ukraine. we also support ukraine's membership of the european union. we've been helping the ukrainians beyond our means since the war began. under the hungarian humanitarian aid programme, we have already taken in over a million war refugees. when the first decision on sanctions was made, the bureaucrats in brussels said that the sanctions would put russia in such a difficult position that it would be forced to end the war. a year later, we see that the war is not only not over, but it is more brutal than ever. the objective of the sanctions has therefore not been achieved. since the sanctions were imposed, however, inflation, economic crisis and energy shortages have threatened to erupt across europe. sanctions are destroying europe. we need peace. to do that, first, we need a ceasefire, so that no more people die in the war. the best thing for europe as a whole would be to stop the fighting and try to negotiate a peace. we must do everything we can to bring about peace.
madam president, council representative, commissioner, dear colleagues, as a project for peace and cooperation, the european union has withstood many historical challenges, and remains highly appreciated and enjoyed by its citizens. ukraine’s aspiration to join our union is an understandable logical and right choice. for ukraine, european union membership means choosing between democracy and russian authoritarianism, between freedom and occupation. the granting of candidate status to ukraine has justified the eu’s nature as an open and forward-looking geopolitical actor. our trusted partner – which continues democratic reforms while resisting russia’s war of aggression – needs to be invited to start accession negotiations now. such a decision will not only testify to our commitment to our neighbourhood policy, but will also strengthen ukraine as a state, raise the spirits of ukrainians and give them hope. for those who hesitate, allow me to encourage you with the words of robert schumann, spoken on the day of signing the schuman declaration: ‘world peace cannot be safeguarded without the making of creative efforts proportionate to the dangers which threaten it’.
madam president, colleagues, i’m deeply grateful for all europeans do for ukraine. in particular, i’m proud of my people. now let me tell you quickly and shortly, it’s ‘sanctions, sanctions, sanctions’, without circumventing of them; weapons that are necessary to defeat russia delivered to ukraine immediately; and real fighting impunity, including crime of aggression, not just as a slogan used, but by ngos. and commissioner, running marathon in times of earthquake and people shedding their blood for our values is not advisable. we have to have clear timeline agreed with ukraine for accession to the eu and nato.
madam president, zelenskyy has now banned 12 opposition parties and used the war to carry through deeply anti-democratic labour reforms. the international trade union confederation, which unites more than 200 million workers worldwide, are protesting against the laws. general secretary sharan burrow said in a statement, ‘it is grotesque that ukrainian workers who defend the country and care for the injured, sick and displaced, are now being attacked by their own parliament’. zelenskyy is attacking the people and structures necessary for the country to win a war. he is forcing through the most dramatic privatisation programme in the country’s history: a fire sale of public assets to western vulture funds. what will that do for ukrainian society? since when did handing over public assets to big business ever help the people of any country? this is a programme for even deeper corruption and inequality. the eu is promising the sun, moon and stars to ukraine, including fast—tracking eu accession. be careful what you wish for!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after some hesitation, i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the transparency and targeting of political advertising. political campaigns are increasingly taking place online, and it is becoming increasingly difficult for citizens to identify whether they are political messages. political advertising can be used to spread disinformation, in particular when it is not clear that the advertising is of a political nature. the resolution aims to make it clearly identifiable both online and offline, especially when it comes from a third country, i.e. outside the eu. the new regulation should, above all, bring transparency. political advertising should include a clear indication of the identity of the sponsor, a transparency notice. this is the position which the european parliament will take in negotiations with the council. i expect that further clarification will be made so that the proposal can be applied for the european elections.
a uachtaráin, i was happy to vote in favour of this report on the transparency and targeting of political advertising. the report aims to make it easier for citizens to recognise a political advertisement, to know what they are seeing and who paid for it. one of our greatest challenges today is the fight against disinformation and external interferences to our democratic processes while maintaining the openness of the public debate. this legislation will help make manipulative online political advertising a thing of the past. it will also make political actors more accountable for the adverts they disseminate, and when rules are broken better sanctions may be imposed across the eu. the political sphere is constantly evolving and political advertising is becoming an ever more important dimension of it. once this legislation is in force, we hope that elections in the eu will be more transparent and resistant to manipulation.
mr president, i voted against the report because it does not address the really important questions about political advertising and the impact of social networks, namely the question of the organisation of the moderation of social networks that use political advertising. it's good to talk about transparency, it's good to talk about the organization of this process, but as long as there are no clear rules for moderation, as long as social networks continue to be a field, and the largest field for propaganda, and hostile propaganda, especially in eastern europe, especially in the balkans, where the largest troll factories are located for creating and spreading fake news and creating whole suggestions, whole moods through these social networks, as long as no reports are voted here, they will not answer the really important question. the really important issue is a moderation that allows for the prevention, exposure and isolation of fake news in social networks and political life.
mr president, i supported this report because it is clear that european democracies are under pressure from disinformation. these campaigns are ongoing, and we've seen them in the past, and something needs to be done in this area. i agree that political competition should be as free and equal as possible, but we also need to guard against attacks on our democracy by foreign third states in particular. disinformation is the greatest tool to influence people's thinking, and in modern times, in the advancement of technology, the distinction between information and political advertising is really blurred. i think that the instruments we have chosen in this regulation are a good way forward. it is important to clarify them further and that is why i supported this regulation. i am a little disappointed that the question of campaign finance, even from third countries, has been left out of the debate. we should think this over.
mr president, european works councils are one of the few genuine european workers representative bodies, and it’s essential that they have proper access to justice. as a consequence of brexit, many companies are using ireland as their legal base for their european works councils. ireland is an attractive option for these companies because irish legislation offers no collective bargaining rights and very limited – if any – legal remedies pertaining to european works councils. the largest trade union in ireland, siptu, wrote to the commission almost two years ago, warning that unless changes are made to irish legislation, european works councils would find themselves in an increasingly precarious position. ireland has the second highest incidence of low pay in the eu, yet workers in ireland are still waiting for changes to both irish legislation and the european works council directive. fianna fáil’s renew group voted with the far right at committee stage to remove references to trade unions in this report. trade unions are democratic organisations with a legitimate role to play in european works councils
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i abstained on the report recommending that the commission review the directive on the european works council. i believe that much more emphasis should be placed, in particular, on the effective enforcement and implementation of the existing european works councils directive in the member states. emphasis should be placed on educating employees and companies to exercise their rights and obligations. it is a major mistake that in some member states the penalties for non-compliance are not effective, dissuasive or proportionate as required by the existing directives. on the contrary, i supported the amendments calling on the european commission to monitor more closely the transposition of this directive into national law and, if necessary, to initiate infringement proceedings.
mr president, i really welcome the fact that parliament is taking this initiative, and i voted it for it. european works councils are a good idea in principle, but they have fallen down in practice, particularly in ireland, where the implementation of the old directive was so bad that the commission had to initiate infringement proceedings. so a revision is really badly needed, and i hope that the revision will make it harder for ireland to take its usual ‘softly softly’ approach to multinationals. but i also hope that the revision will take into account the situation of retired workers, who are often overlooked, and whose pension rights can become eroded and affected by discussions that don’t involve them. we say that the role of works councils is to make sure that workers have a say when it comes to decisions made by far—away management. this principle has to apply to retired workers. i’m struck by the situation of airport workers in ireland whose pensions were decimated on the basis of discussions that they had no input into. they worked all their lives, made their contributions, and their income was taken away. this is wrong. we have an opportunity to correct it here. let’s hope we take it!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the commission and ukraine are meeting in kiev at the moment for the eu-ukraine summit, and it is therefore very important that the european parliament has adopted its resolution and has adopted it by such a massive number of votes. it was supported by 489 of the 574 members present. of course, i supported him too. the european parliament calls on the eu institutions, as well as the member states and all partners, to continue to provide maximum political, military, economic and humanitarian assistance to ukraine. in this context, we also stress the need to address the return of children and adults forcibly deported from ukraine to russia, to return these children to ukrainian families. the european parliament calls on the summit participants to work together to launch the accession negotiations successfully, and the european parliament also supported president zelensky's 10-point peace plan.
mr president, i voted against the resolution because for all the shrill jingoism and belligerent moral outrage about ukraine winning and russia being defeated, the truth is that nobody wins in war except the military industrial complex feasting off the billions of taxpayers’ money or vultures like blackstone, swooping in to feed off the carcass of the devastation and destruction of ukraine and benefit from the rebuilding against the backdrop of privatisation, deregulation and decimation of workers’ rights. thousands of civilians dead, tens of thousands of soldiers, 15 million people displaced. this is horror. and our response is to send in just enough weapons to make sure it doesn’t end. it’s barbarous. the motion talks about peace, which is good – when we refused to support ukraine when they reached an agreement with russia last april, forcing them to fight on – but it has to be a just and sustainable peace. no serious person thinks ukraine can win an absolute victory. so a plan that talks about nato membership, with ukraine being the european equivalent of israel on steroids, retaking crimea, has to stop if we want ukraine to survive.
mr president, commissioner, the moving image of mesut, the turkish man who refuses to let go of the hand of his dead daughter, is burned into my retina. the photos of baby aya, who was born under the rubble in syria and lost her parents, don't let me go. the devastation is immense and the need is great. the first european emergency aid was quickly on the scene. i would therefore like to thank all the aid workers who are doing very hard work under difficult conditions. i'd like to ask the commissioner to do more for mesut, aya and all the affected families. we need a marshall plan with shelter in the region. we must not turn a blind eye to erdoğan's misguided policies and condemn the censorship of this autocrat. finally, we must not forget syria and we must ensure that everyone is helped. in many areas where there is no help, one must fight to survive. humanitarian aid must never be part of a political game.
madam chairman, commissioner, nature is facing a huge tragedy that shows us once again how fragile human life is. we can't bring back the 35,000 or so people who have died in turkey, we don't know how many in syria, but we can at least reduce the suffering of those who survived this horror. the european union has shown in practice that it is based on the idea of solidarity, compassion and empathy. this support of ours cannot be just fleeting, it must be permanent. turkey is our neighbor and our thoughts are with our friends. the european union must redouble its efforts to help the affected population in syria. support needs to be increased because the number of casualties is increasing daily and the situation in syria is becoming a terrible humanitarian disaster, adding to the 12 years of war in the region. i want to express my gratitude to all those who came to my aid immediately. i thank the european commission, the national emergency services, including the bulgarian emergency services, and the millions of european citizens who donate every day. every life saved is a ray of hope. every help gives hope that our human civilization, with united effort, will be able to survive any challenge.
madam president, i would like to thank you. let me begin by expressing my sympathy to all those affected in turkey and syria. the devastation is unimaginable, the testimonies painful. a few days ago, i received word that a friend's son had been killed in this disaster. fikri töre is one of tens of thousands of victims and rescue efforts continue day and night. the international presence is absolutely crucial. but we must not forget the situation in syria. the country is torn apart after years of war. this has hit civilians particularly hard. aid to syria is having difficulty getting through the destroyed roads. in many cases, the houses have already been bombed. the pictures from the region speak their own language. aid to syria must be stepped up, and here the needs are enormous and here humanitarian aid is needed to save lives. the swedish government holds the presidency of the european union. i expect it to take the lead and deal with this with the solidarity and humanity that is needed at this time.
madam president, the extent of destruction is still hard to grasp: tens of thousands of lives lost or missing, destruction and mourning. among the lost, 24 schoolchildren, our children from the turkish occupied part of cyprus with their companions. from the very moment, the republic of cyprus expressed readiness to contribute a team of rescuers with medical assistance. but the erdoğan regime rejected it for politically motivated reasons. there are many reasons indeed for not trusting erdoğan regime, but indeed, erdoğan is not the people of türkiye. the humanitarian relief for the affected areas in türkiye and syria must involve civil society actors, trade unions, medical associations and other ngos, away from the dirty hands of inhumane and corrupted autocrats. mr commissioner, after all, solidarity and empathy for the people must prevail because humanity must prevail.
madam president, i also want to express my condolences to the people of syria and türkiye. i have to take issue with the meps who have characterised the slow response as being attributed to the sanctions. repeating the assad narrative, effectively. yes, there has been a slow response, yes, we need to have a debate about sanctions, but the two issues are not connected. if there is a slow response, it's because there are too few border crossings and they've been blocked by russia and china at the bidding of assad. if the response has been slow it’s because the assad government has deliberately targeted civilian infrastructure without stopping for a decade, deliberately, this is not an indiscriminate bombing. this is directed at bakeries, at health facilities, at hospitals and at schools. and it's hardly surprising, therefore, that the earthquake has had such a devastating effect. and ngos are really struggling. bab al-hawa has been blocked by virtue of the earthquake. all of the roads are blocked as a result of the earthquake, and i have to say a particular word of condolences to an agency i used to work for, gold, who lost 28 staff over the last week. but they i know they will redouble their efforts to try and provide the greatest relief possible.
madam president, we mourn the lives lost. our sympathies go out to the families of the dead and the injured. all help is short in the face of so much misery and shattered and missing lives. shelter, clean water, food, and blankets. yes, commissioner, the eu's response was swift. the priority now is to organize shelters in the affected areas and more humanitarian aid. because what is unacceptable is that erdogan is making it difficult for humanitarian aid to get through, by maintaining the state of emergency against the kurds and the repression that blocks roads, the press and social media. let us support the turkish, kurdish and syrian peoples. humanity first!
madam president, no picture, no number can describe the pain. he can't describe the tragedy in syria. we are neighbors, and we were among the first to arrive, our own rescue teams, our own medical teams, 1,500 people at the start, 90 tons of humanitarian aid. is that enough ? it may not be enough. the donors' conference, on the initiative of the european union, must reach binding conclusions and quickly draw up a road map for direct support from syria and turkey for the civilians, without compromise with the assad regime, without compromise with the erdogan regime. we owe it to the children who were lost, to the men and women who were buried in the rubble and the wreckage. turkey is a candidate country, and its repeated violations of international law, its circumvention of the rule of law, its violation of greek airspace, its invasion and occupation of part of cyprus are in no way leading it to the european road. but turkey is not erdogan. the european union is the entity that is lending a hand to turkey to get up, to get back to life. and we must watch step by step, moment by moment, the next steps and the next moves of the turkish leadership.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the violent earthquake that struck turkey and syria, killing tens of thousands of people, marks the beginning of an unprecedented humanitarian catastrophe. it will be the most vulnerable earthquake survivors who pay the highest price. i am thinking in particular of women and children. the commission must support the implementation of the process of identification, census and search of children separated from their families and must intensify special surveillance at the borders to combat the trafficking and illegal adoption of children. i believe that europe must call on the member states to change the adoption procedures so that we can help those children who have lost their families as a result of the earthquake in the shortest possible time. we can also imagine building humanitarian corridors to help the family-run institutions that were so successful for children, for example, in chernobyl. let's do something practical.
madam president, the earthquake in turkey and syria created great devastation, also in regions inhabited by the very important kurdish minority. we have to make sure that the assistance reaches the kurds and is not used by the governments of turkey and syria to exert additional political pressure on them. we know, for example, that erdogan would like the percentage of the very important pro-kurdish party to fall to fall below the 10% threshold which secures representation in parliament. our assistance to turkey and syria is to be as massive and effective as possible. at the same time, our assistance has to be well targeted and non-discriminatory.
respected. the earthquake in turkey and syria has become the catastrophe of the century. the affected area is so large that it could stretch from amsterdam to paris. it's really a human affliction. quick help that also reaches the affected quickly is therefore crucial. for [...] many, this is the border between life and death. in this respect, the rapid response of all member states and, of course, the european civil protection mechanism should be commended. my country, slovenia, has also responded. thank you so much to all the paramedics. i also thank commissioner lenarčić for his efforts and coordination. the european civil protection system is crucial for responding quickly to crises, of which there have been too many recently. from the covid-19 pandemic to historic fires, floods, the ukrainian war and the latest earthquake. but the need for help far exceeds the capacity. so here is my strong call for increased funding for civil protection. this is why we must use the mff review process. solidarity is the key value on which europe was built and on which it can fall. let's help because it's possible, because we can, and because it's the right thing to do. thank you so much.
(starts off-microphone) ... and the horror of tens of thousands dead, the freezing conditions, the cries unanswered because the equipment wasn’t there to get them out of the rubble. and as bad as all of this is, we know that the deaths that have already occurred are going to be met by many, many more. so, rather than clapping ourselves on the back about how great we’ve been to respond, we should acknowledge that our response is far from adequate. and it pales into insignificance with the amounts that we are sending in to keep the conflict in ukraine going. and bad enough as our response is to turkey, our response to syria has been utterly disastrous. a country abandoned even before the earthquake hit. the un syria humanitarian programme last year was only 47% funded. we’ve let the people of that country die without medical provisions, without food because of illegal sanctions which are killing people. and the earthquake has finally made people take notice. aid agencies are screaming for the sanctions to be lifted. the un special rapporteurs have said humanitarian efforts are hampered by sanctions. we’ve got to lift the sanctions now or thousands more will die.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to begin by expressing my condolences to the families who have lost one, two or more members of their family and to congratulate the rescue teams - and my country has been there - which have done their duty, and after 100 hours have brought out people who are still alive, but that is not enough. i've seen politics being done here. i think we're talking about humanity here, about humanity, about humanism. we have to stop doing politics, that it's syria, that it's turkey, we have to help people, we have to help families, children, women. and, commissioner, these figures are not numbers, they are people, and if we do not act further and in syria, with the corridor, except for sanctions, there will be more figures, with people who have died because they do not have what they need, they are in the cold, they do not have medicines, there are those who have been taken out after 100 hours, who must have assistance. so i don't think we should congratulate ourselves. i think we have to put politics aside and people's lives should not be left-right or centre-left. we must act to save people.
madam president, as the tragedy in turkey and syria unfolds, it has brought into stark relief the terrible impact of longstanding eu and us unilateral sanctions and interventions in syria. the us, israel and türkiye each illegally occupied different parts of the country, stealing resources, food and fossil fuels that were essential before this crisis and are desperately needed now. the sanctions have systematically deprived syrians of the possibility to rebuild their war-torn country, and today the sanctions are blocking aid, equipment and essential materials from reaching syria. the eu should end all sanctions now. we have punished the people of syria more than enough. un special rapporteur alena douhan has called on all sanctioning states to lift sanctions, to open all ways to deliver humanitarian aid and to ensure that no donor or bank or other actor is punished for humanitarian help to syrians. it's time to park our geopolitical games and start giving a damn about people.
madam president, repowereu was a much-needed programme to ensure energy independence. however, it is well known that we in the green group could not agree that this need should be used to override the principle of not significantly harming the environment or to undermine our climate objectives. that is why i am pleased that in the negotiations we have managed to limit this derogation to a small part of the fund and, above all, also to projects which are exclusively emergency. i must also say that it has been a very big mistake to try to make nuclear energy eligible for this fund. i have to express my satisfaction that this is finally not going to be possible under repowereu. i say this, above all, because it would have been a huge mistake to have tried to use the energy emergency and the needs that we have to completely override our climate emergency goals. this is not the end of the road, we still have a lot to do. but of course, continuing to move towards energy independence, respecting our commitments under the paris agreement, remains essential.
madam president, we need to speed up the recovery programs. the rrf was introduced to counter the effects of the coronavirus. the crown is long gone, yet only 28% of the assets have been paid off so far, with the bond's stock market prospects not looking too bright. the repowereu linked to the rrf is aimed at alleviating russia's energy dependence. the 10th sanctions package is already under negotiation, but repowereu is still in the planning phase. the commission should be engaged as quickly as possible in approving and paying for the member states' plans. repowereu can help member states to mitigate the impact of sanctions, but this is only true if the commission pays the funds quickly and does not make it a tool for political pressure on certain member states, such as hungary or poland. the importance of european economies has been diminishing in recent years, and the eu's global competitiveness is now at stake.
madam president, i would like to thank you. 250 million tons of carbon dioxide. ladies and gentlemen, as we vote on the energy crisis package and the funding to phase out russian gas, we can be very proud. we opposed the commission's climate-friendly proposal, a proposal which would have increased emissions in europe by 250 million tonnes. to increase emissions to finance solutions to the energy crisis, at this point, when we are in the midst of both a climate and an energy crisis, would have been nothing short of pissing in our pants. warm and comfortable in the short term, but in the long term, a huge mistake. it was an absurd proposal which we in the centre party refused to accept in the negotiations and now we have succeeded in doing so again. and in the end product that we're going to vote on, we've now funded the energy crisis package without massively increasing emissions, and we should be proud of that. we in the centre party and the liberal group will vote in favour of this proposal which finally gives us the opportunity to phase out russian gas without sacrificing the important climate work.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. unfortunately, it was only with russia's aggression against ukraine that the harmful policy of making eu countries dependent on russian energy resources was demonstrated by germany and, unfortunately, by the european commission. it was therefore a good thing that after the russian aggression against ukraine, the repowereu programme was presented and entered in the national ppps. but i would like to inform the commissioner that my country, poland, has been pursuing a policy of independence from russian energy resources for more than ten years: we have built the gazoport in świnoujście, the baltic pipe, which brings gas from norway, interconnectors with slovakia and lithuania. we're already energy independent when it comes to gas supply. so is oil. seven years ago, we were 100% dependent on russian oil. more than 90% of the oil now comes from third countries. it is high time, commissioner, that this effort, this gigantic effort of poland, was finally recognised by the commission. and finally, two comments on repowereu. first, it is the poor member states that are the ones who are paying for climate policy with a large share of the ets funding. secondly, there is no derogation from the principle of non-aggressive damage, which undermines the possibility of financing technical infrastructure from this programme, which is the basis for diversifying the supply of energy resources.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the recovery and resilience mechanism is the only way the european union can meet the challenges we face, particularly in the energy sector, but also in global competition. we must therefore ensure that the national plans correspond to the real needs of each member state and that all available financial resources are fully used. i am glad that, thanks to the efforts of the socialist group in the european parliament and the support of the three rapporteurs, my amendment and that of my colleagues from the socialist party, which makes it easier to amend the plans, has been incorporated into the final form of the regulation agreed with the other european institutions. thus, if a member state can demonstrate the impact of the war in ukraine, inflation or global trade flows, it will be able to modify both the projects and the reforms in the plan by 30 april this year. therefore, i believe that romania should aim at a wider optimisation of the rdp, so that all targets and objectives are achieved mainly on the energy component. we must seize this opportunity to tackle energy poverty, to combat inflation, to help smes, but above all to prepare for the future. i want to thank all the members for what we have achieved here today.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, of course, any crisis, any transition, costs the poorest, the poorest citizens, small and mediumsized enterprises the most. the fact that we have an extra 20 billion through this repowereu programme is very good. the problem is how we spend it to get it where it needs to go. and i am glad that through the efforts of several meps this amendment has been introduced, which allows recovery plans to be changed if they are well reasoned. because, commissioner, the conditions have changed and we certainly have an interest in spending every euro of this programme efficiently and i think that is very good and because yes, it has finally been put into this regulation and we need to know the first 100 biggest beneficiaries of this european money. we in the committee on budgetary control have asked to know the final beneficiary of all european funds, but it is a step and i hope we can continue so that the money goes where it needs to go.
madam president, the idea that we should exempt new oil and gas infrastructure from the ‘do no significant harm’ principle seems madness. as much as eur 60 billion of the funds earmarked for covid recovery could now be used to fund new fossil fuel infrastructure. over 40 lng terminal or gas pipeline developments have been identified, which could now be partly funded with the diverted covid recovery money. this will do nothing to help security of supply this winter or next winter. we are throwing money and contracts at fracking in the us and making export attractive in nigeria and qatar. what will happen then? in ten years it’ll be 2033, by which time we should have considerably reduced our gas demand. yet we’ll still have these contracts with our energy companies. instead of genuinely empowering the eu, repowereu is further fuelling the eu’s dependence on imported fossil fuels. are we learning anything from this?
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the free movement of persons is one of the most important practical advantages of european citizenship, and citizens know and recognise it well. but mobility must not affect the exercise of the voting rights and political participation of european citizens who exercise their freedom to reside in countries other than their country of origin. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission and the council to take measures to remove barriers and facilitate the right to vote for immigrants in european elections. automated census mechanisms, early voting mechanisms, postal voting mechanisms can make all the difference for many immigrants and other citizens on the move. information measures on the rights of political participation at the time of registration, whenever possible in accessible language, and awareness campaigns are also very necessary and urgent. we still have time to get more immigrant citizens to vote in the next european elections, but to do that we must do, and do now, what has not been done yet.
madam president, madam vice-president of the commission, dear věra, dear colleagues, in 2019 a very worrying democratic event took place during the european elections, which no one spoke about. what happened? abstentionists among expatriates were 9 million, equivalent to 70% of the population of a medium-sized european state (13 million). these are europeans residing in a member state other than their country of origin. their fundamental right to democratic participation has been severely limited by bureaucratic inconsistencies and lack of information. as an italian citizen, resident and elected in france, i am convinced that we are missing the greatest opportunity offered by our union: to be a full citizen, everywhere in our union. our report is exactly that: we must remove, and very quickly, the unacceptable obstacles to democratic participation in the run-up to the 2024 european elections.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, there are still too many millions of european citizens living and residing, even for work or study, in a state other than their own, who unfortunately are unable to exercise their voting rights. their voter turnout is lower than that of national citizens, and even lower is the percentage of those who decide to stand in a country other than their own. in fact, these citizens represent the social mobility so much sought after to strengthen the project of european integration, and that is why parliament is today making clear why they can and should be favoured and facilitated in standing as candidates and voting, especially with regard to people with disabilities. let us not forget that participation in political life is the basic prerequisite of any democracy and the new rules we are proposing are also intended to have a europeanising effect in order to change the way in which the citizens of the european union see european democracy, reinforcing their sense of belonging and combating what i believe is the real enemy we have to face: i'm not sure.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i apologize for the delay in the foreign policy debates i just came from. but it is important for me to make a further comment on this democratic political debate, because the right to vote is a civil right - one of the most important civil rights in our democratic systems, which are under such pressure from within and without. and it is also a right of eu citizens, because eu citizens can not only vote for their european representatives - the european parliament - but also vote at the municipal level if they live in a european municipality in the european union. it's worth a lot. and it is particularly worthwhile to be able to vote for your representation in the european parliament from your own country, no matter where you live in the world, or to vote in the european union where you live, if you are not from that country and are a union citizen. the important thing is that not only the active right to vote is affected, but also the passive right. we should motivate young people, we should motivate all generations to participate in voting, but also in running for office, to strengthen democracy.
madam president, last year, 2022, we celebrated the 70th anniversary of the constitution of the first parliamentary assembly of the european communities. this european parliament is a leap forward in that it is the only democratically elected, legislative and supranational institution in the world. but it's imperative to know that voter turnout in the forty years that this parliament has been directly elected by universal suffrage has declined, rebounding upward, and we should celebrate that, in the 2019 elections. we have a lot to do to continue to encourage the voting and the right to vote of mobile citizens, that is to say, of the 13 million european citizens who reside in another country of which they are not nationals. it is a step in the right direction and it must be done with all the guarantees: information, campaigning, language that is understandable to them, removal of all bureaucratic obstacles and facilitation of early voting and postal voting, particularly for people with disabilities. it is therefore a right step. i would like to conclude by saying that i have heard it said in this debate that there is no such thing as european citizenship. that is a denial of european law. european citizenship exists because it is enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and in union law. and this parliament represents it.
madam president, these two files are obviously part of the commission's priority for a new push for european democracy, and i mean ensuring a right to vote and stand for election throughout the eu is grand, but it's hardly the biggest problem with european democracy. in fact, it's the technical fix for what is deep-seated problems of a disconnect between the citizens and the institutions, where in seven member states, less than 30 % of people bothered to vote in the last european elections. the reason for that wasn't because they were mobile. it's just that they couldn't be bothered because they felt that the european parliament and the eu didn't represent them. and the reason for that at its very heart is the neo-liberalism which is enshrined in the policies and the treaties of the eu, which have led to a massive increase in inequality and undermining of public services, privatisation, a cynicism in terms of national governments, national health and so on. and unless we go back to basics and bottom up democracy, we're kidding ourselves that these type of fixes are going to make any difference whatsoever.
madam president, the voting process does need to be simplified and barriers reduced for mobile eu citizens to vote in european and local elections. however, these provisions are not enough to address democratic deficits when it comes to electoral rights. this report excludes millions of eu mobile citizens from voting in national and regional elections, as well as referendums. eu citizens residing and paying taxes in other member states have no say in the country they live in over the politics that affect their daily lives in that particular country. i mean, why should it be okay to vote for a mayor or a european representative, and yet not in national elections. now, this legislation is supposed to be a new push for european democracy. well, what about addressing the increasing concentration of mainstream media in the hands of fewer and fewer elite bodies? we were witnessing a race to the bottom in how news is being presented to us. and this has nothing good to do for democracy.
the commission has already done so. the s&d colleague has just made a mistake: the supply chain law, that was a glaring misinformation. it was the greens who did this with the biomethane issue; i'm literally being copied by an ngo. the work of ngos is otherwise valuable. volunteering, social, environmental, human rights: i don't think we need to talk about that at all. but a small number of ngos are putting their reputations at risk if there is no democracy within the organisation. when you don't know who the donors are, when government funding is not transparent, when ngos can go in and out of parliaments without being registered. many of these abuses are obvious. we have to do something now. four short points: firstly, the appointment of transparency officers in parliament, transparency officers in each committee secretariat, in the scientific service. for every department, for every major department, there must be a person in charge. secondly, the contracts of the agencies and the directorates-general with the ngos must be published. these contracts must be published. it is not possible for commission officials to use taxpayers' money here at will, perhaps even to use it in accordance with their own political channels to achieve certain objectives. we want this to be published. thirdly, we need to know who is funding the ngos. what interests are behind the organisations? this must be as clear to ngos as it is to corporate lobbyists. and fourthly, what happens to the ngos with european money? we simply do not know because the project beneficiaries do not have to be published, as is the case with the structural funds. why not? - why not? because you, ladies and gentlemen on the left of parliament, have been preventing this for five years, because you have repeatedly blocked the necessary transparency. that's the scandal. 'no peace without justice' has received almost eur 4 million from the eu budget. we don't even know if that money is in kaili's suitcases. is that the end-beneficiary transparency? that's the real scandal. and please help us: support the proposal for an own-initiative report on the transparency of ngos!
i have to say, madam president, we are still not on target when it comes to fighting corruption in the eu and not even in this house. qatargate is a clear testimony to that. every stone must be turned and no solution must be rejected in advance. this also applies to ngos. we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that it was an ngo that was behind and organized the corruption scandal that is still teasing and shaking our parliament, and therefore we have to look at whether the rules should be tightened. but just as we cannot turn a blind eye to the role of ngos in the corruption scandal, neither can they blind us. the lack of transparency is not only the case for ngos but also for business organisations. we saw this for example in the negotiations on the dsa and the dma, where organisations that supposedly represented smes were in fact funded by big tech. so qatargate is not just about individual meps or ngos, it's about structure, and here more transparency and more control is the key to solving that problem.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! last october, the office of parliamentary analysis released a summary of a report promoted by panzeri's organization on the state of impunity in the world in 2021, authored by antonio panzeri, maria arena and mark tarabella, among others. in this report, poland is described as an undemocratic country. and this study, ladies and gentlemen, as it is written here, is to serve as a reference for members and parliament's staff. it was on the basis of this kind of misinformation that debates were held, reports were created about the alleged violation of the rule of law in poland. which ultimately, commissioner, led to the blocking of the kpo funds for poland. the parliament disregarded the words of the former us ambassador to poland, who said that the lies about poland were rooted in russian disinformation. it is obvious that putin's criminal regime will do everything to harm poland, which is a frontline country where refugees from the war in ukraine have found shelter. poland, which is the ambassador of support for ukraine in the world. and as you can see, unfortunately, russia has many supporters in the european parliament and other eu institutions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think it is fairly obvious that in the corruption scandal which unfortunately is shaking this house, the criminal actions of a non-governmental organisation play a very important role. and yet, for weeks now, the left wing of this house has refused to talk about transparency with these very ngos. and i don't understand why. the ngos that do their work properly have nothing to fear. quite the opposite. they are an important element of our civil society, and they should have an interest in seeing that the rotten apples are sorted out of the fruit basket. and it is just as true for us politicians: those who do their job properly need not fear transparency. if ngos are registered in a register of transparency, if they are publicly supported, and especially if they are supported by ourselves, by the commission, if the representatives of ngos enter this house, work in this house, then in my view two criteria of transparency must apply. first, the ngo must effectively represent someone. it must have members. and secondly, we have a right to know where they're getting the money and what they're doing with it. i think that this minimum requirement of transparency should not be denied by ngos if they wish to remain credible.
madam president, i too must of course condemn the scandal in the strongest possible terms. we've all done it in our speeches. unfortunately, this scandal is affecting one of the key institutions of the european union. it is obvious that changes should have come earlier, that changes are really necessary, but of course you can't throw everything in the same bag. just as it cannot be with ngos, it cannot be with mps. this scandal concerns parliament, especially the left. and it should be said that the left also prevented the non-profit organizations from being under transparent control. we need to make clear changes, especially in the area of transparency. it is obvious that whoever wants to receive european union support, whoever wants to receive money from the european union, must be absolutely transparent, all contracts must be public and all donors to these ngos must be traceable and there can be no funding from third countries. i think these are the minimum requirements that we should have.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if it were not for this case of corruption, which i think people of good will regret, and we regret because it is a stain on the institution we represent, i do not know if we would have had a debate. and i think we should periodically set ourselves, and the commission, and ourselves, the task of examining the work of ngos. on the other hand, it would be a mistake to say that all ngos are corrupt. the problem is that we need to be transparent, commissioner, and you were talking about those rotten apples. how do you find them? you just said you have to, you have to, you have to... but you haven't even left us a clue: how do you identify those bad apples that are spoiling the others? then we have to go... - in romania, we have a saying: fish from the head is spoiled. the commission itself has no transparency on certain contracts. how do you close contracts, as was the case during the pandemic? how do you contract for certain studies? how do those auctions work? we know nothing, we members of parliament do not know anything. that is why i believe and propose at the same time that there should be a periodic analysis of the work of ngos working with european money, transparency, traceability of those who finance ngos.
first of all, we're talking about ngos, and a good portion of these ngos are the ones that are paying most of their budgets to governments, so they should really be called governmental organizations, not ngos. second, they are called civil civil societies, and very often they have only a few members, so it's hard to say that they are very close to the citizens. they're much closer to the politics that fund them. and third, and above all, this affair of katargate has shown that these associations have a huge influence on politics, completely out of proportion to the number of members that these associations have, so it's also undemocratic. so the way our civil society system works is completely upside down. he's fake, he's manipulative, and corruption is, in fact, just a consequence of that. and if you don't solve these fundamental problems, if you continue to fund these elitist governmental associations and if you centralize all the power and all the money in brussels, corruption will surely only increase!
madam president, many ngos are weaponised, but what’s going on here is that groups who for years have wanted to choke off funding are seizing the opportunity of qatargate to revive their campaign. yes, we do need to learn the lessons, and transparency around ngo funding is one thing. but what about broader transparency around all the lobbying in eu institutions? surely that should be a bigger priority. we’ve heard a call for crackdown on ngos, but what about crackdown on the lobbying from the arms industry, from big tech, big pharma, big agri? this place is full of lobbyists, 48 000 of them registered, with a budget of 1.8 billion. only the very clumsy resort to bags of cash. everyone else knows you don’t need to do that to get your way. you just need to know the right people, whisper in the right ear and dress it all up in a kind of vaguely plausible argument that’s easy for politicians and policymakers to copy and paste into their policy documents. ngos aren’t perfect. they’re definitely not neutral. but we should be going after the big fish, not harassing the little ones.
madam president, the qatar scandal should not be instrumentalised in order to discredit the work of all ngos. it’s hard not to come to the conclusion that there’s a lot of meps that would like to do that. sure, not all ngos are perfect. certain so-called human rights ngos are in fact often guilty of instrumentalising human rights in the service of western interests and imperialism, as we’ve seen in syria. what we should be looking at are institutional and structural failings within the parliament, not tarring all ngos with the same brush. many in this parliament will be more than happy with the eradication of ngos and civil society groups in order to clear an unimpeded path for business interests. we need transparency and accountability for all lobbyists, not just for ngos. the corporate sector has a far greater lobby footprint in the eu than civil society. so why are we singling out ngos and giving free access to lobbyists? one could be forgiven for thinking that people in this area are looking to promote the interests of big business rather than the interests of their own citizens.
madam president, it’s a matter of humanism that we provide strong support to türkiye and syria in these difficult times. and i would like to particularly thank commissioner lenarčič for his decisive work and great support coming from his people, his team, through a civil protection mechanism. i would like also to applaud and thank the thousands of eu rescuers and the volunteers that are fighting for miracles on the ground. and i would like to call for full mobilisation of europe’s civil society, for each european citizen to help people in türkiye and syria, who are grieving while trying to survive without homes and sanitary conditions. they need power generators, blankets, warm clothes, fresh water, food. they need our support. it's a matter of solidarity. it's a matter of uniting our forces in helping those people in türkiye and syria, in order to come back to the real life. we need that support from this house, politically, on a humanitarian level, but also morally.
madam president, i wanted to speak on the strategy for industrial competitiveness, on which we are voting this week. let us not be fooled: this strategy is strategy in name only. the last few months have shown us more than ever that the world is changing and changing very fast. while china is massively subsidizing its domestic industries and blocking some global markets, such as solar technology, the united states is implementing a massive protectionist policy, of which our companies are the first victims. no more happy pseudo-globalisation, no more unfettered free trade, no more hopes for reciprocity: it is high time to agree that the process of globalisation is going backwards, and that it is now necessary to change our ways of thinking. let us not, once again, lag behind the great challenges we face. let us put in place real policies for the repatriation of our industrial capacity. we are investing heavily in the production capacity of future technologies. let us develop ambitious industrial projects at european level, where every state that is willing to do so can contribute its share to the building. my dear colleagues, the stakes are enormous. it is obviously a question of our ability to be economically sovereign, but more broadly, it is a question of the stability of our societies. so let's rise to the occasion and protect our industries.
madam president, since september, the lack of interest in finding answers to who was behind the nord stream gas explosion has been, frankly, astounding. this was an act of sabotage, an act of unrivalled vandalism, economically and environmentally. and not a word. no discussion, no questions. then along comes seymour hersh, the world’s most acclaimed, distinguished living investigative journalist. he produces a detailed claim that the united states executed this explosion with the help of norway. planned months before the invasion, a norwegian navy p-8 surveillance plane dropped a sonobuoy on 26 september, which triggered explosions planted by us navy panama city divers three months earlier under a nato exercise, and still nothing. i don’t know what happened, but i want to know. this is a man who doesn’t make claims lightly. a man with contacts. and i find it, frankly, jaw dropping that the eu is not asking questions as to who is responsible for sabotaging the livelihoods of our citizens. i am ashamed to be a european.
madam president, only last september, commission president von der leyen stated that it was ‘paramount to now investigate’ the nord stream pipeline attack and that ‘any deliberate disruption of active european energy [...] is unacceptable and will lead to the strongest possible response’ – the strongest possible response! well, pulitzer prize winning reporter seymour hersh, probably the most legendary investigative journalist alive, has just published a report that presents detailed claims that, on president biden’s orders, the u.s., with norway’s help, blew up the nord stream pipelines. hersh has a long track record of journalistic integrity. this was a premeditated terrorist attack on european critical infrastructure. it was also environmental terrorism. does the eu care? do yous need to know who did it? or do yous want to know? hersh says the u.s. did it. did yous ask them? did yous ask them did they do it? or do yous not ask them questions anymore? have we become so subservient, has the eu become so subservient to the us empire that don’t even ask them if they did it? it’s really a fucking joke!
for the group the left. madam speaker, today we are voting on new co2 emission limits for passenger and commercial vehicles through 2035. the general public knows this regulation by the media acronym of the ban on the sale of newly produced cars with combustion engines after 2035. i would like to say a few words about the whole negotiation process, which i consider unfortunate, and the more unfortunate the outcome. the czech presidency in particular made the point that this was not the end of the combustion engine cars, because the council had already made it possible to use synthetic fuels. it's not like that. the only prominent reference to synthetic fuels is contained in the mere recital, i.e. the non-binding part of the text. furthermore, in the discussions with the commission, it was stated, and i think the commissioner also promised that if the production of new cars with combustion engines ends in 2035, they will be allowed to live up to the current euro 6 emission standard so that they do not have to invest further in dying technology. this has not happened either, and the commission has incited those member states which believed it, and has come up with the euro 7 proposal, which will further raise the price of new cars with combustion engines significantly by setting additional requirements not only for the engine but also for the brakes, etc. the role of useful idiots was then played by the czech government, which enforced the ban in principle without any resistance, contrary to the pre-election promises made during its presidency. and now she realized that in combination with the euro 7 proposal, she had voluntarily killed an industry that accounts for 10 percent of the gross domestic product in the czech republic. the czech transport minister kupka then recalled that the czech republic could not approve euro 7 a month and a half after the end of the presidency, but that it was of course too late. not to mention the fact that we are voluntarily and recklessly giving up the competitive and technological advantages that we have had. we'll be dependent on raw materials for battery production from china and africa. for months, colleagues here have been hearing about the mistake of betting on fossil fuels from russia. today, we're doing the same thing again, just with different powers. there is no battery industry in this country. plus, it's years behind the chinese one. we're betting on electric cars, but how we're going to generate electricity in them and at what cost is just not an issue here either. and yet, electricity prices are currently crushing households across the eu. and i could go on for an hour. so, colleagues, in light of this situation, i would like to ask you to consider your vote on the new co2 emission limits for passenger cars and commercial vehicles. people and the economy are already in a bad way, and this could be fatal. is this really the way european industry should go? are we shooting ourselves in the foot? i'm not convinced, and i don't think i'm alone here.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. mr. vice president, i don't agree with you. i think that this decision to ban the incinerator from 2035 is a huge strategic mistake. there is no doubt that the electric car will play an important and central role in reducing our co2 emissions in europe in the future. but to put everything on one horse is not strategic, as you have just said. the basic objective is right: we need to achieve climate-neutral mobility in europe in the long term in order to achieve important climate policy objectives. however, this must be technologically neutral and not allow for a single technical solution to be implemented by all. we don't usually take that approach. for example, emissions trading is about meeting a specific co2 reduction target and incentivising compliance. the way and the technology to get there are not dictated to the companies. why do we do it the other way around with cars? this decision kills innovation, and it is also not good for climate protection in general, because the decision to go for the electric car completely ignores the fact that the carbon balance is not beneficial, from electricity to manufacturing, it is hidden, and this is a sign of a huge double standard in my opinion. nor does it help to simply ignore the fact that we are becoming dependent on china for the raw materials and rare earths we need. the burner would also have continued to deserve a future with climate-neutral e-fuels, for example. it may not be profitable now, but it may be in 2030, and it may be important for airplanes, trucks and ships. the european commission, in any case, simply stifles any european innovation in this area. other countries will be able to take advantage of this gap. i do not think that is farsighted or wise, even in view of the many jobs. today in cologne, it is being reported that ford is rationalising jobs there. and i haven't mentioned the range, the charging infrastructure, the roads, the track problems or the high acquisition costs. i'm not fundamentally against electric cars. but i am fundamentally against being banned from using a carbon-neutral burner in 2035 (the speaker is speaking with the microphone off). i'm not the only one who thinks so.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are deciding today whether to abolish the internal combustion engine in the european union for new registrations from 2035. and it is right that we are making this decision - on the one hand for climate policy reasons, because road transport still emits far too many greenhouse gases, but on the other hand also for industrial policy reasons. other parts of the world, the united states for example, are investing heavily in green technologies right now. if we europeans do not want to lose touch, we need planning certainty for manufacturers now. the manufacturers want to go this way. you need the right-hand frame. we can do that. when the epp is mentioned here, and it is about workers, i ask myself: why are you denying the colleagues the security of planning? why did you vote for less money in the transformation fund negotiations? and why do you pretend to care about the workers? you're only interested in the synthetic fuel lobby. but synthetic fuels are not the solution: we don't have them, they are much too expensive, and we need them in other sectors and not in road transport, where we can electrify directly. and honestly, first they say we don't have a charging infrastructure, then we make a regulation for the construction of the charging infrastructure. then they say we don't have any raw materials, then we recycle them for the batteries. you're always inventing new arguments, you're closing your eyes to reality. if we had pursued such a policy in recent years, there would be no industry in the european union. and one last point: the way to the future is not by looking back. the way to the future is actually to look at what's possible. for the european automotive industry, this is electric mobility and also the use of hydrogen. and you forget that. we're not ruling that out. and synthetic fuels are also hydrogen-based, they're just much less efficient. they are simply not the answer. and with that, i conclude, and i hope that reason will prevail and we will agree to the trilog result today.
madam president, commissioner, in spanish there is a saying: 'the best is the enemy of the good'. turning a utopia into a legal obligation doesn't usually work. an industry fully committed to climate transition. energy and automotive engineers, driven by innovation, are taking on the challenge of getting us to 10 percent zero emissions by 2035, which is really ambitious and objectively good. so i encourage you to make this transition with industry and its workers; with their ability to generate jobs and pay taxes; from technological neutrality to ensuring more open competition; recognising and supporting the strengths we have in europe to continue to lead the transition towards the goal of climate neutrality that we all share. i hope that some of the contents of this report will help to reconcile utopia with reality. i look forward to the annual report on the progress of this transition and its social, technological and economic development. it will serve to adjust, by means of the review clause, the objectives proposed here with those which reality advises. they will certainly remain very ambitious, they will greatly improve on what we have today, but they will also be more pragmatic, especially if we have a proposal this year on the funds that can help us in this transition. the politics of things allow us to move forward, help to make good things achievable for all, which makes us progress. pompous headlines are part of the politics of things.
thank you for making the debate lively! you can do it again.
i have to say, madam president, of course, we on the left want the sale of cars with internal combustion engines to end in 2035. that is a right, important, good decision. but, frankly, the mid-term goals could be more ambitious. and what i do not like at all and what we find unbelievable is that luxury koenigsegg cars with a sales value of up to eur 1 million are excluded - in fact all cars under 1000 in total and up to 10 000 by 2035. it's like their exhaust is farting gold ducts instead of exhaust fumes. no, we do not like that, we do not like that, we reject that and think it is a policy of the upper classes. and yes, with trucks, we need a solution now. we must not let time pass, we need clear signals. and another thing: we're not just reducing emissions in the transport sector by changing the engine. no, it also requires a mobility revolution. investments in battery-powered cars, in public transport, in rail transport, polycentric urban planning, a different understanding of transport policy and land planning: this is what we need. and moreover, fewer cars would also mean less demand for critical raw materials, less dependence on the eu and a significantly higher quality of life.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this agreement on co2 emissions from cars and vans is a real and important step forward in protecting the health of citizens. i was elected in lombardy and piedmont, one of the most polluted areas in europe. a rich area, but where the air is unbreathable. it is estimated that 15,000 people died prematurely in 2020 due to pollution and 80,000 people die annually due to smog. but to make this development sustainable, we need to encourage public transport. our roads are full of trucks carrying goods all over europe. we must support our small and mediumsized enterprises and all the rest. our policies must be coordinated, taking into account the fiscal capacity of our country.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president, i am sure that we will win this challenge too. we've won even more complex ones in europe. however, the analysis of the agreement reached with the trilogue shows that the main problem is precisely environmental. why would you do that? if we look at what is happening outside europe, it is striking how countries, especially china, where the electric mobility solution is depopulated, are exactly the countries where electricity is not produced from renewable sources. in europe, where the development model has been increasingly geared to prudence, to the mix, to the attempt to harmonize solutions, energy production is strongly oriented towards renewable sources. the european mix is good, don't destroy it, don't uncritically challenge it, and above all, be more careful with your language. don't call them "clean cars", "zero emissions", or we'll ask you to call nuclear plants "clean plants", "zero emissions plants" as well. beware, the industrial problem comes a moment later. the environmental problem is the first problem on which you have been too casual and that is why many, including those on the left of this house, will not vote for this agreement in the vote we will have today, because there is a problem of the specific, typically european, harmonization between environmental considerations and the development considerations.
madam president, executive vice-president timmermans, i think it was the german playwright schiller who said that the future comes slowly, the present flies and the past stands still forever. it seems, in this chamber, the past continues to stand still. but this week we vote on an historic deal that will make the eu the first regional bloc to ban by 2035 the production of the internal combustion engine. this is climate action, but it’s also about cleaner air in our cities and towns. electricity is the cleanest and the most efficient energy source for road transport: for cars and vans, but also for trucks and buses. i hope we will see the same level of ambition in similar upcoming legislation for these vehicles. e-fuels are a pipe dream in road transport and must be reserved for ships and planes. by promoting electrification in road, the benefits for people in terms of reduced emissions and air pollution are truly enormous. we must accompany this shift with massive investments in public transport and active travel not aimed to simply replace all cars with e-vehicles. so i look forward to approving this law, which is a profound shift for our road transport sector.
mr president, commissioner timmermans, colleagues, we are in a triple planetary crisis of climate change, pollution and unprecedented biodiversity loss. resolving this will be one of the most difficult challenges we have ever taken on. one of the tasks we must face head-on is the transformation of our transport sector. today, we make a significant step forward, with a landmark vote to end the sale of all new petrol and diesel cars by 2035. but this is not enough. we must follow up with massive investment in public transport, in accessible public services, in affordable electricity and rural infrastructure. today, we set an entirely new vision for our towns and our rural areas. for a europe made for people and not for traffic.
mr. chairman, please! the question is, who cares about making europe dependent on china, on chinese manufacturing, on europe's dependence on rare metals, mostly mined in countries with very unstable political situations? and then there's another question: do politicians in the united states, for example, or switzerland, have less knowledge and a different view of environmental protection because they don't want to impose such great solutions as electric cars on their companies and their society? ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the importance of reducing co2 emissions, of the importance of the path to climate neutrality. we are all in favour of putting in place measures to enable us to go down this road and achieve our goal, but i also believe that this should be done in a realistic, technologically neutral and socially responsible way. today, the question is: can european society afford electric cars? no, please, ladies and gentlemen! do we have a sufficient network of green energy charging stations? no, please, ladies and gentlemen! and finally, i'm not going anywhere, and i asked this also in the transportation committee, do we have data, honest data, that tells us what the co2 emissions are in the entire process of producing, of disposing of electric cars? we don't have that information, so please, ladies and gentlemen, i will not support this report.
mr president, cars and vans will have to reduce their emissions in the next two years in line with european climate law. we are asked to vote on a proposal to ban new cars with combustion engines by 2035. this proposal asks us to decide today based on current knowledge, which technology will be used in the future. this is not the right line of action. the epp certainly wants to find the best solution to reduce carbon emissions. however, we do not think that imposing a single pass is the best way to reach the goal. innovation and technology are the essential tools for our sustainable future. it is dangerous to choose certain technology over others for political reasons. this must be an evidence-based process, involving researchers and experts. technological neutrality is the way to reach climate neutrality.
mr president, mr vice-president timmermans, today the european union is taking an important step towards meeting its climate objectives. a crucial step. a new regulation for co2 emissions from cars and vans, which allows us to have the horizon of the year 2035 for our arrival on the moon in this field: end to combustion cars. and we have to remember that this is a critical step towards meeting our climate neutrality target by 2050. 20% of emissions come from this sector. it is an ambitious step, but at the same time, technologically flexible. but it's not just a climate ambition. today we passed a regulatory certainty for a strategic sector for us. in the race that exists in the world, with the big blocks competing for green technology, what does europe do? is that the direction you're going? that is why the decision we are going to take today is so important, and at the same time it protects public health, because pollution causes 300 000 deaths a year in europe. it is a great cynicism to vote against this dossier and then defend the public health of europeans.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i'm already a little irritated when it's pathetically presented here that today is a day to celebrate. i wonder whether the 3,800 people who will lose their jobs at ford in cologne are in the mood to celebrate today, given what we are about to decide here today. this is only the beginning for european industry, because we must also see what is still in the pipeline for euro 7. i think that the course is being taken in the wrong direction. i think that the debate and the decision are sometimes rather arrogant, because we have heard from the socialist group that those who are concerned about the affordability of mobility, those who are concerned about the preservation of jobs and want to deal with this issue are being branded as neoliberals or stupid. so if it's neoliberal and stupid to advocate for jobs and affordability of individuality, of individual transport, then yes, i'm neoliberal and then i'm stupid too. and it has been shown here today, in this debate, as in many other places, that the social democrats have been a total failure, not only in this house but in many other places, as lawyers, as representatives of interests, both of industrial workers and of people with low and medium incomes. we are not the benchmark, ladies and gentlemen, with our income in terms of mobility and affordability, and that is why the last resort today for the social democrats is to show that they still understand something of the reality of people's lives in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr timmermans, with the co2 emissions regulation for cars and vans, the union is giving itself an essential instrument to achieve the decarbonisation objectives of the european climate law, a strategic legal text that will lay the foundations for a future-oriented industrial policy. those who oppose it, thinking that it will slow down change, are only hurting the economy and the workers. the italian right wing, for example, will vote against it in the european parliament, but then the representatives of our government in the council voted in favour. the reason is obvious: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the agreement maintains a technology neutral approach and a strong social footprint to ensure investment for a fair transition, two key points to allow the industry to remain competitive with american and asian manufacturers, already well ahead in the market for zero-emission vehicles. voting against today means making the citizens pay a very high price. instead, let's really commit to a transition that is equitable and socially and ecologically sustainable.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is certainly a leader in environmental protection and we must maintain it. any step towards human health is welcome. but listening to the debate today, i thought about what two important people in romania said a long time ago: what can a historian learn from an engineer? and the politician's answer at the time was: measure. we have to think that we are not regulating for ourselves here, but we are regulating for the citizens, and we have to understand how we can strike that balance, because today's regulation is not finished with the vote we are giving this week, but we are going to have, commissioner, policies to transform european industry, to implement industrial policy, reindustrialisation of the european union, and obviously we have to think about how we protect citizens, not only from an environmental point of view, but also from an economic point of view, because clearly, the financial capacity of citizens and of member states is different.
mr president, sometimes i think that this is the place where ambition comes to die. so in the trilogue agreement we have 55% reduction for cars, 50 for vans. now, in fairness to jan, the rapporteur, he fought for 70% at the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, but some of his own renew members even voted against him. we need an eu-wide phase-out date for sales of new internal combustion-engine cars and vans as close to 2030 as possible, but surely no later than 2035, to meet the eu’s 2050 climate neutrality target. at least that 2035 phase-out date has been retained in the trilogue agreement. but it’s also crucial to remember that unless consumption and mobility habits change radically, replacing the world’s estimated fleet of two billion cars is going to require an explosive and entirely unsustainable increase in resource extraction. so cars are not the future of transport. better public transport and active travel are the future, with targeted support where necessary for evs in rural areas. sometimes, commissioner, i feel sorry for you. it’s not easy.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, gender-based violence damages our societies, our very social fabric. it ends women’s lives, but it also damages our economies to the tune of 366 billion per year. and yet we have so much to do to eradicate it. if it was any other issue, colleagues, we would be here jumping up and down with outrage at this wasteful cost to our economies and to the very lives of women. we have to be the first continent to eradicate this horrendous phenomenon. and the time is now. and i thank the rapporteurs for the work and the swedish presidency, because i hope they ensure that we now ratify this global gold standard in combating violence against women: the istanbul convention. but let me also call on the council here to actually support the directive on violence against women and domestic violence. no more excuses, no more legal arguments that say ‘we cannot pass this directive’. there is a golden opportunity now for the parliament, the commission and the council to actually make sure we make a quantum leap forward by adopting a strong directive before the end of the year to deal with this exceptionally traumatic, disturbing issue, irrespective of the fact, for example, that rape is not a eurocrime. it should be, but it’s not. surely public policy, public safety demands that at this very point we get unanimous support across the three institutions to have the strongest directive possible by the end of this year.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, commissioner, minister. really, it is very depressing, commissioner, to hear the statistics that you’ve just quoted. i’m sure all of us are getting tired of coming in here and hearing such depressing statistics. i know there is much on the implementation table that potentially gives us hope, but it really does reinforce the enormous job that we have to do in this particular area of technological change and digitalisation, as well as other areas. yet another statistic to add to what we’ve heard already: only 7% of women work in science, technology, engineering and mathematics. and if we are to ensure that the green and digital revolution are going to apply equally to women and men, we have to make sure that women are at the table – because we know that if women are not at the table, their voices, their perspectives are missing from research. i do hope horizon will make a difference. we know, for example, in medical research that the particular needs of women have been ignored for generations, and it was not seen that you needed to have that different perspective. as we go to the un next month in new york, the theme is, of course, ‘innovation and technological change, and education in the digital age for achieving gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls’. it’s really important that we discuss this at a global level because, as we’ve heard, there is so much work to be done in this area, and this is the future, and we are at risk of inequalities continuing, despite this technological change, if we don’t make sure that women get these opportunities. so i know our delegation, led by robert, will do everything we can to ensure that it is ambitious, so that we can build that future for women and girls that you spoke about, commissioner. and i want to thank both the commissioner and the minister for your ambition in relation to this at the un.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, this year i welcome the un’s focus on utilising digital education to achieve gender equality and empower women and girls. eighty-five per cent of our jobs today won’t exist in seven years due to digital growth. over half of our member states include digital skills in their primary education curriculum, and it’s welcomed. but while we push to excel our digital footprints, we must ensure the safety of women and girls online. research shows 1 in 10 women over the age of 15 in our european union have experienced online violence. therefore, online safety is urgently required and needs to play a central part in the teaching of digital skills. in order to truly and fully empower our young people, we must create a safe space to work, study and connect through online platforms. if we are ever to achieve gender equality for our young women, which they so richly deserve, we must eradicate gender—based violence online also.
mr president, the european parliament is rightly under the spotlight. members of this house have brought shame to this institution. their actions have diminished our standing in front of those we seek to represent. while those who engage in disgraceful behaviour are few in number, they have left a trail of destruction and suspicion in their wake. we collectively as a body must act. it is essential that an independent eu ethics body is established as quickly as possible to help restore confidence. however, it is only the actions of an eu ethics body, and not simply its establishment, that can help to restore trust that has been lost. there must be a common, uniform definition of what constitutes a conflict of interest in the european union and how we hold to account if there is going to be ambiguity across member states. the eu ethics body must be completely independent. it must not require approval to start investigation. it needs to have teeth and not be worried about seeking approval from the powers that be. the time of self-regulation must come to an end in the european parliament and we have seen that there are those who are willing to use this office and have been elected to advance themselves. it is time that we stand firm against such activities.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have been discussing for almost four years in the european parliament the need for a body to analyse ethical behaviour and its implications. but, commissioner, do you think it is a coincidence that the president of the commission, after having promised, when she took office, that she would come forward with a proposal, has stopped because she herself or because she is suspected of a conflict of interest? well, today i learned that an american publication is suing the commissioner for refusing to give up the pfizer contracts. perhaps that is why the commission has not come forward with the proposal and perhaps that is why we must act urgently, change the regulation so that parliament can have the right of legislative initiative. it is not possible for unelected people to be superior to parliament, with people elected by us. and i'll say one more thing: if we don't have a uniform definition of conflict of interest - in my country i was a minister and a parliamentarian, there is that agency for integrity and we make declarations and wealth, not just for interests - if we have 27 models of conflict of interest, there will be nothing here in the european parliament.
mr president, the idea of an independent eu ethics body is, of course, something to be welcomed. but i have to say we run the very real risk of fiddling while rome burns if the ethics body focuses only on individual behaviour and doesn’t address systemic issues such as the wholesale institutionalisation of lobbying in eu bodies. we have to address in a really serious way the stranglehold of economic and corporate power, which has taken its grip on decision making in here. and that does of course mean closing revolving doors for sure. but the problems go much deeper than that, and any ethics body worthy of its name can’t shirk from that. corporate power calls the shots in here. i think we have to be careful as well that any ethics body is scrupulously independent, because if it isn’t, we run the risk of creating more problems than we solve. it would be disturbing indeed, if the push to do better is weaponised, to cast suspicion on people for political reasons. so we have an opportunity to do something worthwhile. let’s not waste it.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! tunisia is a country that needs to be given special attention in the european parliament, in the union, because for years the countries of the maghreb, the countries of north africa have been the target of substantial subsidies. it is a question of a certain partnership with these countries on the part of our european union. and of course we can criticize, as we heard, the european commission for what we heard here. but i think that the whole policy of the union towards this region and towards other countries in the neighbouring african region needs to be revised, because i have the impression that we were the advocates of the arab spring, that we were the ones who tried to support certain political forces there, and in fact, this led to a certain chaos. if we are talking today critically about the fact that one in nine tunisians went to the polls, which is really an unprecedented situation when it comes to democracy, then maybe we should ask ourselves how much we can support this country unconditionally, that the money that comes from us without conditions to be met by tunisia is acceptable?
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, it is true that tunisia is a strategic partner for the european union, but i think that the commission and the council have not taken stock of what was happening in that country. because the process initiated by kaïs saïed is still leading to a very worrying result. the new constitution has some worrying setbacks. however, there has been an abuse of decree-laws, which has led to serious violations of pluralism and freedom of expression. trade unionists were jailed, and parliamentary elections were boycotted by most parties. the tunisians themselves have also abstained from voting, with a turnout of 10%, and all this shows that tunisian democracy has not been revitalized but, on the contrary, weakened. so what do we do? of course, we have to report this situation. we must also try to understand, because there is still a contradiction - and i am addressing my colleagues - that kaïs saïed remains popular. he's leading the polls, and there's no alternative being built. so we have to try to understand what is happening in the country, and the main factor, of course, is the economic and social crisis. as this crisis continues, citizens are losing confidence in the political efficiency, and the situation is very serious: doctors, technicians, engineers are fleeing en masse from this country, which needs them so much. it is therefore necessary to support all civil society initiatives that are in the right direction. and i would like to point out one: that of the ugtt union, which is relaunching the quartet with the hope of re-appropriating by the population the very important issues facing tunisia. europe must continue to support tunisia, financially and politically, of course, the tunisian people, not a power, which is still widely criticized today.
mr president, tunisia is a country which, after the arab spring ten years ago, raised great hopes. apparently it was one of the few successes of this movement, but then the political, social and economic situation deteriorated. i'm concerned about the events of the last few months. the political process which was launched a year and a half ago is producing some surprising results; i would call them disappointing. the constitutional referendum had a very low turnout and the recent legislative elections barely exceeded 10% of voters. it seems obvious and worrying that there is a great distance from society towards the process initiated by president saied. it's a situation of disenchantment. after the elections, a new institutional political actor, the house of representatives, is now emerging. commissioner, council, what do you expect from the new assembly? what do you think their line of action will be? it is not easy for me to predict what will happen in tunisia in the coming months. so i would appreciate it if you could be a little more specific and explain to us how you intend to act in these somewhat confusing moments. i would like this new tunisian assembly to help the country to move forward politically and to involve more sectors of society in this process. i also hope - i would like to repeat - that it will serve to promote the economic and social reforms that the country so badly needs. tunisia is a very important neighbour, an advanced partner of the union. logically, in the current state of russia's unjust war against ukraine, we are very much focused on what is happening in eastern europe. but the southern shore of the mediterranean is also key for european countries. we must accompany the tunisian people, help them in this situation, which is also characterized by a long economic crisis and the absence of structural reforms in this area, both economic and social. very little has been done in the last decade. the situation of tunisia's neighbours on the southern shore of the mediterranean is not helping to improve the situation; neither algeria nor libya can expect much help for tunisia to get out of this crisis. we europeans cannot therefore abandon them in these difficult and complex times.
mr president, what is the legitimacy of a parliament elected by 11% of the electorate, while 89% of the citizens remain at home? they're sending a message of rejection. the rejection of president saïd's road map and the way he has implemented it, in an overly authoritarian manner, as we have seen with the wave of arrests in recent days. rejection of a parliament that was once too corrupt, with fragile majorities, but also rejection of a parliament that is now powerless. tunisia is suffering from a serious economic and social crisis, which the controversial decisions of president saïd are failing to remedy. on the contrary, it has only exacerbated political divisions and generated a dangerous apathy among the population, whose living conditions continue to deteriorate despite all the promises. the tunisian society must reach a new consensus on how to save the democratic transition and restore the pillars of a clean, inclusive and effective democratic governance system. neither today's polarizing hyperpresidentialism nor a return to the system of stagnation before july 2021 is an option. what should we, the european union, do? supporting the economy? yes, of course, but also a strong support for democracy in tunisia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the revolution of 2011 brought tunisia the hope of becoming a prosperous democracy. these hopes were, unfortunately, dashed when the islamists of ennahda came to power. it was in this context that president saïd decided, on 25 july 2021, to assume full powers and suspend the tunisian parliament. the european parliament expressed its concern in its resolution of 21 october 2021. subsequently, president saïd called a referendum on 25 july 2022 to change the tunisian constitution, but only 30% of tunisians participated. the recent parliamentary elections in december and january saw an even worse turnout: only 11% of voters turned out. it's almost a world record for a democratic country. the legitimacy of the new regime thus seems fragile. nevertheless, president saeed's popularity remains high, and the opposition is unable to present a credible solution. that is why i believe that the european union must continue to support tunisia, whose main trading partner it is, betting that the situation will gradually improve. what tunisia needs are not sanctions but our help to return to the path of stability and prosperity.
mr president, madam commissioner, over the last year and a half, the political-economic situation to tunisia has deteriorated. after shutting down the parliament in 2021, the president has changed the constitution, seized control of the independent electoral commission and the judiciary, and held elections with a historically low turnout of only 11 %. tunisia is a key country for the european union in the southern neighbourhood, especially in terms of cooperation in the area of migration. we are committed to supporting the people in tunisia in overcoming the financial and economic crisis, but stand firm on the need to improve the respect for the rule of law, democracy and human rights. i call on president saied to start an inclusive national dialogue to overcome the crisis and return to the path tunisians set in 2011.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, until a few years ago, when we spoke of tunisia, we would have immediately thought of the jasmine revolution, the arab spring, the first true example of a democratic constitution in the arab world. today, however, we see only chaos, a very serious economic crisis and a worrying political and institutional situation, due to a long series of political decisions taken by president saïed, which recall the darkest period of ben ali. the country's democratic transition, which i witnessed firsthand as an election observer for local elections, is now suffering a severe setback and tunisia has actually been going backwards since july 2021, when the president froze parliament and began a crackdown on political opponents, trade unions and activists. the controversial constitutional referendum last july saw a turnout of 27%, and the recent legislative elections, which were boycotted en masse, only 11%. the scenario is therefore one of a single man in charge, with full powers, and a parliament that is extremely delegitimized. this is untenable. as a european parliament we are calling for economic reforms immediately to ensure that the country gets the loans it needs and for a change of pace on the defence of the rule of law. the tunisian people, whom the european union has always supported in their democratic ambitions, deserve better conditions. europe must not turn the other way.
mr president, i would like to thank you. on december 17, 2010, the arab spring began after mohammed bouazizi's protest against corruption, lack of democracy and food prices. tunisia became a symbol of the democratic revolution in this entire region. but a decade later, the country's democracy is on the verge of being eradicated. the imprisonment of opposition leaders, journalists and representatives of civil society goes against the most basic values of a democracy. president saïd's actions are completely unacceptable. i met him this spring with a delegation from this parliament and even then it was clear that this president lacked respect for the rule of law and basic democracy. and last year's election candidate speaks his language clearly. if nine out of ten citizens in a country choose not to vote, it is a symbol that something is not quite right. to lose confidence in the political institutions of one's country is to lose hope for a better future. it is time for the world to raise its voice in solidarity with the tunisian people. it's time to join hands with the forgotten and show that we exist. that tunisia can be a symbol of the democratic aspiration. we must increase the pressure on the tunisian regime and show that we stand with the tunisian people.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i have been to tunisia several times to help strengthen the work on democracy, gender equality and respect for human rights. the development of tunisia is very worrying, because it can no longer act as a democratic example in the middle east and north africa. in january, thousands of people marched in protest against president saïed, who is accused of restoring autocracy amid a deepening economic crisis. initially, the assumption of power by president saïed was supported, but it has become increasingly clear to the population that the country's economic and social crisis cannot be solved by a centralised presidency in which the role of parliament is put at risk. i expect the commission to put much more pressure on the tunisian government. the dismantling of the fragile tunisian democracy must have clear consequences for eu budget support. the eu must develop a new tunisian strategy that redirects budget support to democracy-enhancing activities, civil society, women's organisations and the trade union movement. only then can tunisia return to the spirit of dialogue that characterized the country after the jasmine revolution.
mr president, commissioner, minister, we have all seen that tunisia has taken a step backwards in the face of what has happened there, but that does not mean that we should give up. this is where diplomacy comes in, commissioner, minister, to see how we do not abandon the citizens, that it is not the dictators who are interesting and important to us, but the citizens. and yes, tunisia is a partner, we have an agreement with tunisia, we cannot abandon it. the important issue is to find the mechanisms through which, indeed, human rights can be restored, the constitution can work in favor of the citizens and not in favor of a dictator. and yes, of course we have to continue, with the levers that we have, because we can't do everything in a third country, but with the levers that we have, let's go to be close to the tunisians and return tunisia to the path of democracy, as it had started very well and, behold, the citizens had to endure such measures taken, from my point of view, by a dictator.
mr president, 12 years ago, tunisians overthrew ben ali and many europeans thought that this was all about democracy and tunisians wanting to be more like us. but the truth is that, yes, it was a reaction to brutal repression, but also to the wider regime of global inequality, shocking unemployment, food inflation and intolerable living conditions because the country was being run for foreign interests rather than in the interests of the people who live there. and now here we go again: tunisia battered under structural assault, the imf and world bank neoliberal reforms gutting the state, food and fuel crises only deepened by the war in ukraine, and again, arrests, imprisonments and real repression against the opposition. but let us not condemn the effects and ignore the causes. don’t pretend that this has nothing got to do with us. there’s no justice without social justice and our assistance always comes with strings attached. and it’s these strings which bind societies in debt servitude, a pattern repeated across africa and across the world. this isn’t just tunisia’s repression and chaos, it’s ours too.
mr president, in our latest discussion on the situation on tunisia, we sent a very clear appeal to president saied for bringing back tunisia on the right path, saying that it was not too late for taking such an essential step. however, this is time, i think, that it is too late. despite the civil protests and our calls, president saied went on with these arbitrary detentions and he did not show any sign of consideration for the recent decision of the african court on human and peoples' rights that defined his rise to power as an unconstitutional coup against democracy. being a founding member of the african court, tunisia has a binding obligation to respect the verdict, thus repealing all those decrees that represent clear violations of human rights and individual liberties, president saied, cannot act as if nothing happened. and our union must strongly support and back our african counterparts and partners in their efforts to restore democracy and the rule of law in the country that used to be the lighthouse of democracy in north africa. we owe this to the tunisian people that fought hard for a better future. here there is no middle ground: either we stand firmly on the side of democracy or our international credibility will be lost forever.
mr president, the continuation of the war in ukraine is expected to drive tunisia’s inflation rate above 10% this year. a potential usd 1.9 billion rescue package with the imf will mean drastic economic reforms that will increase inequality. the eu’s meagre assistance is also dependent on neoliberal economic reforms, like freezing public sector hiring and wages, while inflation runs out of control. president saied’s recent crackdown on the opposition and monopolisation of power has passed without an awful lot of comment. he’s been performing his tasks obediently enough, ripping up the social safety net for tunisians in exchange for funds that will service existing debts, clamping down on migration to the eu and helping to increase the transit of algerian gas to the eu. the political west using the war to put the neocolonial squeeze on countries like this is a gamble with a big potential for backfire. you can understand tunisians thinking the 2011 revolution remains unfinished.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. when we talk about the situation in the eastern congo, we are talking about an extremely complex gordian knot. and the conflict situation has a whole host of dynamics. and what do we have in the end? there is an unspeakable confusion of rebel groups and actors, almost no infrastructure, the social and economic situation is desolate, there are massive human rights violations, etc. that means that this conflict is simmering and it is also flaring up again and again, as we have seen in the last weeks and months. and we have absolutely no confidence in the region. there is no willingness to cooperate at all. and this vicious circle of these particular interests, that's what leads to it being beyond the good of the people. i think that the commission's proposal is a good one, and i hope that it will be adopted by the council. but -- and this is just as important -- far from this acute alleviation of human suffering, we also need to get into this nexus approach and not just into humanitarian aid, but also into good development cooperation and also into conflict reduction and the creation of sustainable peace. the countries concerned on the ground are of course important actors and also have their own responsibilities. there is the luanda process, we have the east african community and other institutional frameworks. but in the end, if we want to successfully implement and realise the nexus, we should also ask ourselves as europeans: do we want to make a real offer of help and support, and do we want to do this above all on an equal footing, which means on an equal footing? i believe that europe must put much more of its soft power to work in the global south if we are to talk about a shared democratic, free and human future on this planet in the long term - especially in the context of the geostrategic challenges that accompany it in the context of the russian war of aggression against ukraine.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the tensions between rwanda and the democratic republic of congo are unfortunately not new. the rivalries between the two countries have never really stopped. the time has come for the european union, in the light of its common history with africa, and especially in the current context, where russia and china want to exert an ever greater influence, to recall our values of democracy and humanism and our ideals of peace. it is certainly not nelson mandela who wants to put an end to the fratricidal and ethnic conflict in burundi, with the arusha agreement for peace and reconciliation. however, the european union should take the initiative of bringing all the protagonists back to the negotiating table with the aim of building a lasting peace together, and, with the support of all, take initiatives such as local reconciliation and truth commissions, under the supervision of african and european observers, in all the regions of these war-affected territories, to restart a dialogue that has now been broken. the first reason for the european union is the desire to preserve peace. let's be these peace scouts.
mr president, the situation in the drc is horror without end for the civilian population. in november, we talked about displacement and violence but now, if anything, the situation is even worse. we know that the un have reported the active engagement of rwandan armed forces on congolese territory and the m23 zone of influence expanding. and vicious and all as the violence is being perpetrated in that area, the truth is that the only way and the only solution is diplomatic dialogue. but it would seem that many in the international community couldn’t care less what happens as long as their own interests are being looked after. what can we expect from president macron’s forthcoming visit in march, when france is the one who pushed the european union to grant eur 20 million in support to the rwandan military in mozambique to protect french interests there? what can we expect from london, who organised a summit in kigali to conclude an agreement to deport asylum seekers back to rwanda? the truth is the curse of the drc continues, with rich natural resources been robbed by others. god help them to help themselves because certainly the eu isn’t going to do it.
mr president, two weeks ago, pope francis, on his first visit to the democratic republic of the congo, denounced the internal and external organisations that orchestrate war in the country to plunder its resources. it is, he said, above all, a war unleashed by an insatiable greed for raw materials and money that fuels a weaponised economy and requires instability and corruption. little has changed since king leopold looted congo’s resources to enrich himself and belgium, killing over 10 million congolese people while he was at it. the yearlong conflict between the drc government and the m23 rebels, which rwanda’s kagame is reportedly fuelling by providing support to the armed group, has caused widespread hunger and displaced more than 2 million. meanwhile, france and totalenergies are looking to enrich themselves at the expense of the congolese and looking to clear areas away so they can make money out of robbing the place of resources as ever. how come there’s no one talking about establishing any kind of peace talks? how come no one gives a damn about sorting out the things there? we have a lot of influence there, but we very seldom used it in a positive way.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, commissioner, high representative, russia’s illegal invasion of ukraine is unforgivable. the devastation, debt and destabilisation wrought by it has led to unthinkable horrors, as in all wars. also unforgivable is how willing western leaders are to ensure this becomes a war without end. instead of calls for ceasefires, dialogue and peace talks, we are deepening western involvement in the war with no apparent concern for the repercussions. we are calling for ukraine to take back crimea. experts on both sides of the ocean say that this was madness and will lead to a possible breakout of nuclear war. and it will also rally the russian people towards the defence of crimea, if we go to that space. zelenskyy has been making the rounds begging for more weapons, but not one word to say about peace. how many of his own people must he conscript and feed into the carnage before he sits down to negotiations? and how many of the people of europe must lose their jobs or their homes before nato will allow these negotiations to happen? and lastly, i’d like to know what has happened to germany, the jewel of europe. scholz told us that there’d be no peace in europe without russia. first you send helmets, now you’re sending tanks to kill russians. i worry for europe.
madam president, i welcome the fact that we respect the independence of the ecb in this house. that’s good to hear again and to be reinforced by most political groupings. i just want to reference a couple of challenges that i see very close at hand that we have to address both in this house, but also in terms of the council, the commission and even the observations of the ecb, and that is the unwinding of this emergency escape clause and the reintroduction of a new stability and growth pact. i am just very concerned that, with the rising costs of funds to households, to businesses, to sovereigns, we will be significantly challenged in the short and medium term if we can’t bring forward a new stability and growth pact that underpins all we’re trying to do in terms of monetary policy, from the ecb point of view, but also in terms of fiscal policy, from member states across the european union. we are significantly challenged, and there is no point us pretending inside this house that a lot of member states are not heavily indebted. we have to come up with solutions to ensure that they can weather that storm and that citizens will not experience what they experienced in 2008, 2009 and 2010 during the previous financial crisis.
madam president, we are now facing into an unsustainable cycle of high input costs in terms of food production, and clearly, commissioner, we have to have an immediate strategy to reduce input costs. we’re now facing another planting season where the prices of nitrogen, phosphorus and potash are exceptionally high and will lead to two things. first and foremost, potential risks to food supply, but also the issue of food inflation that is rampant across the european union. so while we all have longer—term strategies around the farm to fork strategy, the biodiversity strategy, the reduction of artificial fertilisers, we need an immediate issue to address the high input costs for this planting season as we start out. from the perspective of our dependence on fertiliser from russia and from belarus, there is no doubt we do have to bolster the capacity within the european union, but in the immediate term, commissioner, i would ask that you would have an investigation into the potential distortion and manipulation of fertiliser prices by some wholesalers across the european union. we do not want excessive profiteering on the backs of producers and consumers, and this is an issue that you must address.
mr president, loads of volunteer fire firefighters in europe only get paid for their time in the place of work, but at the same time it's compulsory for them to be available as home and to move as soon as they get the call. but obviously if they're doing that, it means their home life is severely restricted and they don't get paid for their standby time. and we know that the courts in belgium have recognised this and said they must be paid. but the other issue of the fact that many of these people also work a normal full-time job and this has implications for health and safety, have to be taken on board. and i suppose my point really is that you can't square a circle. volunteer work is a massive, indispensable part of our societies, but it cannot be a substitute for vital public services. if workers do critical jobs in our society, they can't be reliant on the kindness and self-sacrifice of volunteers, and firefighting is clearly in that category. so we need to adequately staff public services, but also pay and recognise the sacrifices of our volunteers in this sphere.
mr president, it’s my first time having the opportunity of even speaking while you’re in the chair. congratulations. the eight-hour day is a monumental victory, won by striking workers almost 150 years ago. it’s an achievement of socialist and communist organising and a cornerstone of labour law in europe. the epp, renew and s&d’s claim that the matzak ruling in 2018, which counts voluntary work as regular work according to the working time directive, will eradicate voluntary work as it will now be counted in the maximum 48 hours permitted under eu law. these groups represent political forces which spent much of the last 40 years hollowing out public sector services and work across the continent while lining the pockets of their friends in the private sector. many people volunteered to fill the gap left by the retreat of the state, to provide care where the private sector doesn’t see a profit to be made, or to care for those who can’t afford the private sector. the 48-hour week, including travel and break, is really a 60-hour week. if volunteer work is being done on top of this, the system is broken!
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i am grateful for this debate and the valuable comments and insights. well almost everybody mentioned the working time directive and the relevant judgment by the european court, so let me elaborate a little bit on this particular aspect. we, at the commission, have great respect for volunteering, and we understand that the so-called matzak ruling has been received with concern in some of our member states, but our interpretation is clear. this judgment of the court does not mean that every volunteer firefighter in the union must automatically be considered as a worker. and it cannot be extrapolated to all the member states in all circumstances. each situation should be assessed individually, and this is first and foremost the task of national courts, which of course must take into consideration the case-law of the court of justice. where firefighters qualify as workers and not volunteers, obviously the working time directive applies, as does the rest of eu labour law. however. the directive provides for a number of derogations facilitating the organisation of services that require continuity and adaptability. this includes firefighting and emergency services, where continuity of service is required. at the same time, it guarantees the protection of the health and safety of the staff. for instance, derogations from daily and weekly rest are possible if equivalent compensatory rest is provided. member states may also allow workers to opt out of the 48-hour average maximum working time under certain conditions. and in specific circumstances, related to unforeseeable catastrophes, such as natural or technological disasters, attacks or major accidents, the directive can be disapplied all together. i can assure you that the commission is constantly monitoring the impact of the working time directive across all sectors. the commission will shortly publish its five yearly report on the implementation of the directive in the member states and also an update of the 2017 interpretative communication. subsequently, later on, of course, also a revision of the working time directive could be considered, but such revision must respect the eu treaty law, in particular the principle of subsidiarity, which was also mentioned here in debate, and in particular article 196 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which stipulates that civil protection is supportive competence of the european union. to conclude, we agree, obviously, that voluntary commitment in europe should be promoted because it is an important part of building resilience against crisis. voluntary associations of citizens provide valuable response capacities in the face of ever more frequent natural disasters, which are caused by climate change, but also other crises. voluntary organisations, citizens working for citizens have a special role in building resilience against such crises. i trust that with a strong partnership between the european commission and the european parliament, we can make sure that our work on resilience will bring real benefits to the european population.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the explanations of vote.
mr. chairman, it's been one year since russia's unlawful military aggression against ukraine. it has been a year of terror, of violence and of the murder of innocent citizens, of the occupation of territories that the russian federation itself had recognized in 1990 as part of ukraine. what we should do, the countries that remember the soviet occupation, is to support ukraine in any way and to insist that it be restored within its political and historical borders, recognized and guaranteed by the budapest conference, even by the russian federation itself. russian aggression must be condemned once again, but it will not be done with talk, with words, it will not be done with declarations. ukraine should be supported and assisted in all possible ways, including with the entire logistical complex that can be provided, in order to repel the aggressor and restore the territorial integrity of the state of ukraine. only then can there be peace, and then there will be peace in europe, which is something we must strive for.
mr president, one year on as the war in ukraine continues, when voices everywhere should be calling for a ceasefire and peace, this resolution is driving us in the opposite direction. so i proudly voted against it. it peddles the latest lie that this is not now about defending ukraine. it's about ukraine must win. what does that even mean? last april, there was a deal on the table which would have seen russia withdraw in return for ukrainian non-nato membership. but ukraine's western friends, killer clown boris johnson and nato rocked into town and told them to keep fighting. the result? six cities devastated, four provinces illegally annexed, eur 108 billion in aid, which the people of ukraine are going to have to pay back over decades, global food and energy crisis. is this winning? ordinary people don't win in wars. they're cannon fodder in the gains of others. and you can shout glory in here all you like, but there's no glory in the grave. and only graves come out of this folly. it's time for people and the silent majority all over europe to take to the streets this weekend and demand peace and an end to the war.
mr president, it is clear that the current inflation crisis is supply-driven: first by supply chain bottlenecks and now by energy and fuel companies abusing their market power. as millions of europeans struggle to feed their families and heat their homes, energy and fuel companies make record profits because of price speculation. the european commission’s recent winter economic forecast is further proof that inflation is being caused by this profit-price spiral and has nothing to do with wage increases, which remain far below the hikes in the cost of living. the ecb is not managing this crisis. increasing interest rates prevents both public and private investment, but ultimately hurts low-income earners the most. mortgage holders will be pushed to their limits and risk defaulting on their loans. to get to the root of this issue, we need to tax these exorbitant corporate profits and we need to help the ordinary people of europe, through pay rises in line with the cost of living.
mr president, i forgot to congratulate you earlier, so congratulations on your elevation [the speaker was interrupted]. it is too late, but i'm sorry. anyway, this report is one of the few powers that we have to attempt to hold the ecb to account, but unfortunately, it falls well short of the mark, so i voted against it. we're told that the european union has managed to escape recession – just about – but that isn't any comfort for the people in the real world who are struggling so hard this winter and coming into the spring. this inflation problem with energy and food companies exploiting the bottlenecks, profiteering from it, and there's nothing in the report to rein it in. not to mind that, but much of the problem with supply is self-imposed with the sanctions that we are supposedly putting on russia, but it's european citizens who are paying the price. now, what's the ecb response to this? ease the pain? no. their response is double it! interest rate hikes which cripple people, now mortgage increases and cutting off access to credit. so now people don't just have to worry about heating their homes and feeding themselves, now they have to worry about keeping their homes, when we should be releasing fiscal measures in order to invest in jobs and security. but of course, true to form in this place, this is dancing with big business and ordinary people pay the price.
mr president, i voted against the resolution on the minimum income because, like every other document on the good ... of the european parliament, it is about an otherwise good idea and cause to fight poverty [....] (the president interrupted the speaker because his remarks were not in keeping with the subject under discussion)
dear colleague, i heard you were speaking on the minimum income resolution, which was not on the vote. we are on cycling right now, so it’s just ‘get on your bike’.
thank you, it was my mistake. г-н председател, гласувах в подкрепа за резолюцията относно разработване на стратегия на европейския съюз в областта на велосипедния транспорт. безспорно колоезденето не трябва да се разглежда само като спорт и развлекателна дейност, но и като истинско транспортно средство с индивидуална политика и специално финансиране. велосипедът е средство за транспорт, което представлява множество предимства по отношение на здравето, намаляването на задръстванията по пътищата и следователно на замърсяването, има икономически предимства, когато говорим за покупателна способност на европейските граждани. нужна е велосипедна стратегия, включваща повече велосипедна инфрастуктура, подобряване на градското планиране, изграждане на нови пътища, насърчаване на мултимодалността, признаване и стимулиране на европейската велосипедна индустрия, осигуряване на достъп за уязвимите групи и информационни кампании за повишаване на пътната безопасност – тъй като в една част от нашите държави на велосипедистите все още не се гледа като на участници в движението, което застрашава техния живот и здраве – а това трябва да бъде по някакъв начин предизвикано.
mr president, i think it's great that mr dzhambazki regularly cycles his bike from strasbourg to bulgaria, fair play to him. now, road transport emissions account for 26% of the eu's co2 emissions. more cycling will make our cities and towns more liveable, safe and inclusive. cycling should be elevated to a strategic priority at eu level. now, this resolution calls for more than doubling the total number of kilometres cycled by 2030. it also talks about the creation of synergies between cycling and other modes of transport, such as making more places available for bikes inside trains, and providing more secure parking areas for bikes at stations. this is an important point. in ireland, dublin city metrolink stations will reportedly have bicycle parking for just 28 % of predicted demand on a normal day. now, finally, the resolution stresses that cycling tourism and cycling in rural areas needs to be supported by accelerating the development of the eurovelo network. this is a fair and valid point. however, cycling tourism should not be developed at the expense of public transport. i'm all in favour of building greenways, but it shouldn't be at the expense of railways.
mr president, i voted against this resolution. fertilisers are vital to ensure the continuous production of food and feed in the eu and globally. but as russia is the world’s principal supplier of fertilisers, the war and our response to it in imposing sanctions is threatening global food security and driving up food prices in europe and abroad. inflation is having a major impact on the european agricultural sector and the level of farmers’ income. the red cross estimates that more than 145 million africans are currently going hungry and millions more are facing acute food insecurity. meanwhile, the largest fertiliser manufacturers have been making record profits. while eu sanctions don’t target agriculture, western diplomats are very clear that they create a sense of legal uncertainty, which makes it harder for russian companies to access funds, to cover transport costs and engage with european operators. we know almost a quarter of a million tonnes of fertilisers were frozen in november. this was lunacy. later released, but only through negotiation and dialogue. this shows a way forward. we have to have people first, in this situation.
mr president, decades of policies designed to promote the use of artificial fertilisers, instead of more resilient, sustainable farming methods, have exasperated farmers’ vulnerability to the fertiliser crisis. all actions taken to support farmers through the current crisis must be part of a long—term vision and strategy for the sustainability and resilience of this sector. we do not need a short—term kneejerk reaction which will fail to address the systemic issues surrounding fertilisers at the root causes of the difficulties facing farmers. the eu’s reliance on imports of nitrogen and phosphorus fertilisers, and fossil gas for the manufacture of fertilisers, is a huge vulnerability. it should be addressed fundamentally and systematically, not simply by shifting to imports from other countries or injecting public money into the fertiliser industry.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
the minutes of this sitting will be submitted to parliament for its approval at the beginning of its next sitting. if there are no objections, i shall forward forthwith the resolutions adopted at today’s sitting to the persons and bodies named in the resolutions.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 16 february 2023.
dear colleagues, the brave defence by ukrainians against the illegal russian invasion continues. this war of aggression has also impacted global food security. we are all aware of the potential devastating effects on global hunger if food supplies are undermined or weaponised. the un black sea grain initiative meant millions of people have had access to food and basic supplies from ukraine. this agreement could expire later this week and i want to call, together with this parliament, for its renewal as quickly as possible. the situation is urgent and dire. colleagues, the last weeks have also seen more lives lost at sea. more dreams forever broken. more mothers and fathers who will never hear from their children. more children, women and men who died in desperate circumstances. again. we have a duty, we have a responsibility, to address this issue. we are the generation of politicians who cannot ignore this reality. our parliament has managed to find a way forward on migration that is just and humane with those in need of protection, that is fair and firm with those who are not eligible and that is strong with those traffickers preying off the most vulnerable and profiting from human desperation. we now need all players to match that ambition and live up to the promise of our union. one final appeal: we must resist becoming desensitised to the tragedy. we cannot allow more people to become nameless statistics. and we must no longer accept that the mediterranean sea remains a cemetery of broken lives and broken hope. colleagues, two weeks ago, at least 57 people lost their lives in a horrific train crash in greece. many more were injured. the process of identification is still underway. it was a terrible tragedy that shook greece and the rest of the european union. we in the european parliament share the grief of the families and friends who have lost loved ones. we mourn with you. and once again we reiterate that the european union stands ready to assist as required. on this, dear colleagues, i ask you to join me in a minute of silence as we mark the lives lost at sea and those in the train crash. (the house rose and observed a minute’s silence)
the minutes and the texts adopted of the sitting of 16 february 2023 are available. are there any comments? i see that is not the case. (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
on the proposal of the committee on legal affairs, parliament has verified the credentials of ms katarína roth neveďalová, with effect from 30 december 2022.
mr nicolae ştefănuță is no longer a member of the renew europe group and has joined the greens/efa group as of 8 march 2023.
the renew europe, greens/efa and ecr groups have notified me of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees and delegations. these decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and take effect on the date of this announcement.
several committees have decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations, pursuant to rule 71(1) of the rules of procedure. the reports which constitute the mandates for the negotiations are available on the plenary webpage, and their titles will be published in the minutes of the sitting. pursuant to rule 71(2), members or political group(s) reaching at least the medium threshold may request in writing by tomorrow, tuesday 14 march at midnight, that the decisions be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in parliament is made within the deadline, the committees may start the negotiations.
the pech committee has decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations ahead of council’s first reading, pursuant to rule 72 of the rules of procedure. the position adopted by parliament at first reading, which constitutes the mandate for those negotiations, is available on the plenary webpage and its title will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
i was informed that no objections have been raised within the conference of committee chairs to the recommendation by the econ committee not to oppose a delegated act, pursuant to rule 111(6) of the rules of procedure. the recommendation is available on the plenary webpage. if no objections are raised by a political group or members reaching at least the low threshold within 24 hours, the recommendation shall be deemed to have been approved; otherwise, it will be put to the vote.
i would also like to inform you that since the adjournment of parliament’s session on the 16 february, i have signed, together with the president of the council, one act adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with rule 79 of the rules of procedure. i would also like to inform you that, on wednesday, i shall sign, together with the president of the council, six acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure. the titles of the acts will be published in the minutes of this sitting. ****
madam president, last night, the film of aleksei navalny won the oscar for the best documentary. i think, personally – and i hope that everybody can agree – that it’s an important sign of recognition after we as parliament – you remember that – honoured him with the sakharov prize. and again, i think that with this award, the world recognised that russia and its autocratic regime is a threat to all who want to live in peace and stability and democracy and with human rights, whether they live in russia or outside russia. i think that parliament, during this session, has to stand by them and to put back on the table the liberation of aleksei navalny and with them of all political prisoners, first of all of belarus, like ales bialiatski, the nobel peace prize laureate, or, for example, political prisoners in georgia, such as former president mikheil saakashvili, such as russia’s vladimir kara-murza, who is in prison, aleksei gorinov, and many others arrested for speaking out against the war in ukraine. i can tell you that families and supporters of the last three are visiting the european parliament this week, so let’s welcome these families with wholehearted support and put the entire weight of a democratic europe behind their causes.
madam president, i would like to begin by asking that the diplomatic immunity of members of the european parliament be respected and that there be no interference by third states in the exercise of their functions. on 20 february she was part of the official mission of the european parliament's delegation for relations with palestine and was authorized by the government of israel to enter. i was surprised to find that when i arrived at tel aviv airport, i was asked to enter, i was held for several hours without any information and finally i was expelled, as the president knows. it is unacceptable, disproportionate and unjustified - a diplomatic and institutional affront. i am not, as a galician mep, in favour of the european parliament. israel has not humiliated me, it has humiliated the european parliament, and this cannot be tolerated. enough with israel's impunity, which even decides who gets to enter palestine. madam president, it is essential that we members of the european parliament have the freedom to do our work when we are part of official delegations. we cannot allow other states to interfere in our international relations. the european parliament must defend the members who defend human rights and not the corrupt people who roam freely around the world. madam president, i would like to thank you for your efforts and your solidarity.
madam president (start of speech off mic) ... i was there, the leader of the delegation, and it was a clear shock that ana miranda was kept out, as it was also a shock – it wasn’t a shock; it was a surprise – that our chair, manu pineda, was denied. again, we were denied access to gaza. i haven’t been there since 2010. i think now that the parliament should be… i know that you responded to it, but it is not them to decide. it is us. and it was, as said by ana miranda now, clearly against the european parliament, not against these persons. let me add here what once elliott abrams said in – i think it was in washington – when somebody asked about the eu role in israel, and he said, ‘eu, they are payers; we are the players’. i think we should do something about this here now.
the final draft agenda as adopted by the conference of presidents on 9 march 2023, pursuant to rule 157, has been distributed. with the agreement of the political groups, i wish to put to the house the following proposals for changes to the final draft agenda. for monday, following an objection by a political group pursuant to rule 118(6) of the rules of procedure, the debate on the report by mr paet on the ‘functioning of the eeas and a stronger eu in the world’ is added as the last point in the evening. as a consequence, the sitting is extended until 23.00. the deadlines are: for amendments, tuesday 14 march at noon; split and separate votes, tuesday 14 march at 19.00. for tuesday, the vote on the report by ms düpont on ‘law enforcement information exchange’ is moved to wednesday. the title of the debate on the statement by the vice-president/high representative on the ‘planned adoption of the foreign influence law in georgia’ is changed into ‘situation in georgia’. the title of the joint debate on ‘brexit’ is changed into ‘eu—uk relations’. for wednesday, the title of the debate on the european council and commission statements on ‘preparation of the european council meeting of 23—24 march 2023’ is changed into ‘conclusions of the special european council meeting of 9 february and preparation of the european council meeting of 23—24 march 2023’. the debate on the oral questions on ‘combating discrimination in the eu – the long—awaited horizontal anti—discrimination directive’ will be wound up with a resolution to be voted at the april part-session. if there are no objections, these changes are approved. (parliament agreed to these proposals.) we now move to changes requested by political groups. for wednesday, the epp group has requested that a commission statement on ‘failure of the silicon valley bank and the implications for financial stability in europe’ be added as the second point in the afternoon after the topical debate. i give the floor to mr markus ferber to move the request on behalf of the epp group.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. last weekend, two us banks, silicon valley bank and signature bank, were placed under the administration of the us fdic deposit insurance fund. this is the biggest bank failure since the financial crisis 15 years ago. although the background to both cases was very specific and individual, the trigger is also relevant for european banks, namely the rapid rise in the interest rate level and the high liquidity in the market. this raises a number of questions for us too: how are european depositors and assets affected? are there risks to financial stability that go beyond the individual case? and how are european banks exposed to similar risks? i would therefore be very pleased if the house would support our very timely response here, to send a clear message to our citizens, to help eliminate uncertainties and to be able to provide information.
i will now give the floor to any colleague who would like to speak against mr ferber’s proposal. i don’t see that to be the case, so i put the request to the vote by roll—call. (parliament approved the request) a commission statement on ‘failure of the silicon valley bank and the implications for financial stability in europe’ is added as the second point in the afternoon after the topical debate. for wednesday, the renew group has requested that we have a council and commission statement on ‘strengthening eu defence in the context of the war in ukraine: speeding up production and deliveries to ukraine of weapons and ammunition’ to be added as the second point in the afternoon after the topical debate. i give the floor to ms nathalie loiseau to move the request on behalf of the renew group.
i will now give the floor to mr michael gahler to present an alternative proposal, i’m told, on behalf of the epp group.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, that has been dealt with, as the other issue has already been approved, on the silicon valley bank. so, thank you. i’m supportive of the suggestion.
thank you very much, so therefore i put the request by ms loiseau to the vote by roll-call. (parliament approved the request)we will have a council and commission statement on ‘strengthening eu defence in the context of the war in ukraine: speeding up production and deliveries to ukraine of weapons and ammunition’. we now move to another request for wednesday. the id group has requested that a commission statement on ‘indispensable questioning of the decision to ban, by 2035, the sale of new combustion-engine vehicles in the eu’ be added as the second point in the afternoon before the council and commission statements on ‘deaths at sea: a common eu response to save lives and action to ensure safe and legal pathways’. i give the floor to mr jean—lin lacapelle to move the request on behalf of the id group.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, for the greater good of europeans, the green ideology, which is very powerful in brussels, has just suffered a major setback. germany, by refusing at the last minute to endorse the decision to ban the sale of new thermal vehicles in the european union from 2035, is helping, along with italy, poland and bulgaria, to prevent the suicide of our now highly successful automotive industry. the european union and the khmer rouge's decision to allow only the sale of electric vehicles by 2035, which are very expensive, is threatening 275,000 jobs and promoting chinese industry. if the ecological transition is necessary, it must be driven by a pragmatic and not punitive vision, as is too often the case here. on behalf of my identity and democracy group, i therefore ask that a debate be added to the agenda of our plenary session on the essential challenge to the decision to ban the sale of new thermal vehicles in the european union by 2035. this is your opportunity to prove your determination to save our industry, our economy and our jobs.
i give the floor to mr gieseke to speak against.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is a real debate. we have had a new situation in the council of ministers since last week. we have a blocking minority, led by germany, bulgaria, italy and poland. other countries follow: the czech republic is now in. it is now up to the commission to make a new proposal. however, it is obvious - as we all know in this chamber - that the commission is not yet in a position to make this new proposal. the epp therefore opposes the holding of a debate on wednesday on the basis of speculation. i think the commission should first of all reconsider and see what it can propose. we as the epp are looking forward to the debate. we have always been for open technology and against prohibition. i would therefore like to have a debate, not this week and then next time with the resolution, but now is not the right time.
i put the request from mr lacapelle to the vote by roll-call. (parliament rejected the request)the agenda remains unchanged.
madam president, i would remind the honourable member that when we speak of 'green khmers' we are referring to the khmer rouge. and that there are two million dead, victims of genocide. so i would like our colleague, if not to apologize to the green and ecologist members, to at least apologize to the two million victims of the khmer rouge in cambodia.
the left group has requested that a commission statement on the ‘need for immediate reform of the internal rules of the commission to ensure transparency and accountability in light of alleged conflicts of interests’ be added as the third point in the afternoon after the council and commission statements on ‘deaths at sea: a common eu response to save lives and action to ensure safe and legal pathways’. i give the floor to ms manon aubry to move the request on behalf of the left group.
the greens/efa group has requested that the debate be wound up with a resolution to be voted in march ii. i give the floor to mr daniel freund to present this request.
does any colleague want to speak against? mr séjourné?
thank you, we will have two separate votes, so first we put to the vote by roll call the request by the left group for a debate. (parliament adopted the request)so there will be a commission statement on the ‘need for immediate reform of the internal rules of the commission to ensure transparency and accountability in light of alleged conflicts of interests’ to be added as the third point in the afternoon. now we put the request by the greens/efa group for a resolution to the vote by roll call. (parliament rejected the request)there will be no resolution to wind up the debate. also for wednesday, the ecr group has requested that the title of the council and commission statements on ‘women activism – human rights defenders related to sexual and reproductive health and rights (srhr)’ be changed into ‘women activism, related to sexual and reproductive health, in the context of human rights’. i give the floor to ms margarita de la pisa carrión to move the request on behalf of the ecr group.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask, on behalf of the group of the european right, that a change in the title of a debate to be held next wednesday be put to a roll-call vote. because if we want this parliament to be the home of all, if we want it to be the guarantor of the legality and plurality that must exist among citizens, then freedom of thought and conscience must be respected. the debate on human rights should not therefore be held under a title which is already confusing and biased, such as, as the president has said, 'women's activism: defenders of human rights relating to sexual and reproductive health and related rights'. we therefore ask that it be amended to "women's activism in relation to sexual and reproductive health in the context of human rights". if we are to have a debate in this house, it is essential that at least the legitimate diversity of views be allowed to take place, especially on a subject which is already as sensitive as this. at least 23,000 people marched in madrid yesterday in marches for life, which are also held in more european cities. this social outcry cannot be buried.
is there any colleague who would like to speak against this request? i don’t see that to be the case, and therefore i put the request to the vote by roll call. (parliament rejected the request)also for wednesday, the ecr group has requested that a commission statement on the ‘scandalous corruption case in the misuse of eu funds by psoe’s mps in view of the reduction of penalties for public embezzlement in spain’ be added as the eighth point in the afternoon before the debates on cases of breaches of human rights. i give the floor once again to ms margarita de la pisa carrión to move the request on behalf of the ecr group.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask, on behalf of the group of the european right, that a change in the agenda be put to the vote by roll-call, which is certainly in the interests of my fellow citizens in spain, of the european institutions and of the member states. we propose to add the debate with the commission, without a resolution, on wednesday afternoon before the urgent debates, under the heading 'the scandalous case of corruption in the misuse of european union funds by psoe deputies in the face of the reduction of penalties for public embezzlement in spain'. in recent weeks a new major corruption plot has been uncovered in spain, affecting the ruling party, the spanish socialist workers' party, and which has already implicated several deputies and officials. the plot is related to the allocation and misappropriation of european union funds in a matter of great concern to the european commission and this parliament, as demonstrated by the recent fact-finding mission of the committee on budgetary control to madrid. apparently, this corrupt plot is led by a deputy of the socialist party, juan bernardo fuentes curbelo (known in summary as tito berni), who resigned on february 14, 2023. as i have already said, several members of the socialist party - (the president withdrew the floor from the speaker)
we put the request to the vote by roll call. (parliament rejected the request) the agenda remains unchanged and the agenda is thereby adopted. the order of business is thus established.
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner simson, colleagues, tomorrow this parliament faces a rare opportunity to make a visible impact in the lives of every person in europe. this winter, millions of people were trapped in cold, draughty homes. households and businesses are struggling to pay sky-high energy bills. property owners are unable to renovate their homes and cannot afford to do so. renters are stuck with eye-watering fuel bills, with no control over the energy performance of their home. we have the power to tackle this crisis and provide much-needed relief to households and businesses across europe. the recast energy performance of buildings directive, or epbd, is that solution. this directive is at the core. it is a plan for the eu to achieve a climate-neutral building stock by 2050. why buildings? well buildings are responsible for 36 % – more than a third – of europe’s greenhouse gas emissions. and there is no question that we have to tackle buildings to make a real change. categorically, the eu will not achieve its climate targets without this directive. however, we have a deal on the epbd that will not only lower emissions but will also lower energy bills, boost european jobs and industries, and strike a blow to europe’s dependence on fuel imports from russia and elsewhere. and after months of negotiations in the itre committee, we have reached an agreement on the buildings directive and a strong majority from all of parliament’s major political groups have backed this agreement. the negotiators support the deal because it’s fair and it’s realistic. it provides flexibility to member states, property owners and tenants, and it’s the right deal for europe. it’s a fair and realistic plan because it targets the worst-performing buildings, prioritising people in energy poverty who are most impacted by high bills. and it ensures a fair distribution of responsibility amongst the member states. while we’ve increased the ambition level for renovation, we’ve also adopted stronger social protections against disproportionate rent increases or eviction. and we will boost renewable installations in buildings, and member states must adopt plans to phase out fossil fuel use in buildings by 2035. it’s also a flexible plan. every country develops its own renovation plan that is specific to their needs. historical and religious buildings are exempt. residential property owners have more time to abide by the new rules. and it’s crucial, however, that exemptions for residential buildings are limited. certain groups, like renters, must not be locked into cold, damp buildings and denied the benefits of lower bills and decent housing. it’s the right plan for europe. the proposed deal will save almost 50 billion m³ of fossil gas per year. that’s the gas consumption of 35 million households, another crucial blow to europe’s dependence on putin’s gas. certain members on the far right of this house would like to see changes to the text that would render this directive almost meaningless. to deny european households and businesses the chance of lower bills and decent housing should be unthinkable. furthermore, without this directive, we’re in grave danger of missing our climate targets. so i urge my colleagues to reject efforts to water down this crucial legislation. and instead, tomorrow, let’s vote for cheaper bills, warmer homes and climate protection. it’s a good deal for the citizens of europe, it’s a good deal for the construction industry and creating jobs, and it’s a good deal for the planet. so let’s vote to get this deal done and get this report approved.
mr president, commissioner, the energy efficiency of buildings can be significantly improved and it is a good objective that the building sector should also be climate neutral by 2050. you can improve the insulation of buildings, you can replace windows, you can change the heating system. there are many ways, but how do we improve energy efficiency? it is not a matter for the eu to define. the commission's proposals were too far-fetched to begin with, in that they set out in detail the way in which these reforms should be carried out in the member states. we have such different circumstances in different member states, such different climatic conditions, building stock, forms of energy and heating that it is most sensible to decide on the means at the level of the member states or the region. often, property owners themselves decide what is the most sensible way to improve the energy efficiency of their property. it is a reasonable goal in itself to have all new buildings zero-emission by 2028. this is certainly possible, but the way in which zero-emission buildings are defined here, that is to say that the heating system should be based on renewable energy sources, does not take into account the fact that we have countries, like my own country, finland, where energy production is already largely zero-emission, either from renewable energy sources or from nuclear power. according to this proposal, nuclear electricity would not be considered a zero-emission energy source and the building would not be a zero-emission building. i mean, this is not a rational place to start. so we have to make a number of changes to this legislation before i can think that it is worth going ahead with it as it is.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all want energy efficiency, we all want the citizens of our country to pay a lower bill. i come from a private background and i know that before you make an efficiency, you have a cost. before you can get an efficiency, you have to make an investment. it's the same here. and i think of the citizens of my country, especially those in rural areas. 60% of romanian citizens will not be able to afford the costs. so, commissioner, if the financial sector is involved in supporting change, yes, we can do that. if not, no, we'll impoverish people instead of helping them. and i think we have to think about cost-benefit and balance ambition with feasibility. because in business, if you're too ambitious and you don't take the cost-benefit ratio into account, you go bankrupt. i therefore think it is good to find supporting mechanisms if we are to implement this directive.
madam president, i received a lot of emails in the last week asking me to vote in favour of a strong energy performance in buildings directive, one that can both cut emissions and combat worsening energy poverty. however, the text we are voting on this week is already a weak one. i often say that the european parliament is the place where climate ambition comes to die. i have a lot of sympathy for my irish colleague, ciarán cuffe, the rapporteur for the legislative proposal. ciarán’s draft committee report shows lots of ambition, the kind of ambition we need in order to adequately respond to the climate crisis. but it was severely weakened in committee by the epp, who happened to be propping up the far right in the parliament on this one. the weakening of the minimum energy performance standard is particularly bad. it is now absolutely essential that the parliament does not further water down the text to further prolong the use of fossil fuels.
the commission has already done so. we are headed for a climate crisis. we notice it more and more every year, especially in italy. we're heading there. we must act now! 40% of our greenhouse gases from the building sector alone is a huge field that we can address. and with this energy efficiency building directive, we are heading in that direction. but now i wonder, what has happened in the last few months? where did all the fake news come from? i firmly believe that this is being driven by a right-wing power that has no qualms about my generation, that all the students, all the young people have a perspective, first of all, to be able to live well on this planet and secondly, to be able to somehow pay their energy bills. what about all the students who are currently in some poorly insulated buildings? they suffer from being so poorly insulated. so get your act together and support this bill tomorrow!
madam president, i have to say it is an awful shame that a committee report that was pretty progressive under ciarán cuffe’s direction, and which improved so much on the commission’s insipid proposal, has been so badly hollowed out by some groups inside this parliament. of course, there are still some positive elements in here, and let’s hope they make it through the final votes. but it really is disappointing that so much of the ambition has been sucked out of these proposals and out of the minimum performance standards, in particular. now, as colleagues have said, our buildings are responsible for nearly 40% of the eu’s greenhouse gas emissions. this needs to be addressed and it needs to be comprehensively addressed. we are in the middle of an energy crisis. we’re staring down the barrel of a future earth that will be uninhabitable for our grandchildren – not our great grandchildren, our grandchildren. we need to take action. it’s not the time to lock in low standards and high emissions for the next 20 years. i really appeal to colleagues to vote not to water this down tomorrow.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the land of lies, truth is a disease, collodi said. this is still a valid aphorism in my own country, where the directive on energy performance in buildings is often presented as an attack on the real estate of citizens. in fact, the text contains extensive derogations and exemptions. there are no automatic penalties, no restrictions on sales and there is also a recalculation of energy classes. i mean, we're in the middle of an energy crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the detriment of the environment. so we support it. but i want to be very clear about one thing: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is right that we should make a concerted effort to renew the building stock, because otherwise, given the different tax spaces, we risk not reaching our objectives and creating distortions and inequalities. no to the immobility of real estate, yes to intervention with certain resources to build together a greener, fairer and more sustainable future.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for all your comments and the specific amendments also in the itre report. let me once again highlight how important steady progress is in the building sector. by targeting the buildings that waste the most energy first, so-called worst-performing buildings, the epbd targets those buildings where the poorest people often live, which cushions them from spiralling energy bills. although different views have been expressed, even critical remarks, i can read the majority support for an ambitious position on energy-efficient renovation of buildings, as reflected in the commission proposal. the provisions on minimum energy performance standards are among the most important ones in the revision of the epbd to achieve the 2030 and 2050 targets. without them, it is difficult to provide clear signals to citizens, investors and financial institutions that renovation should accelerate. clear measures with adequate timelines are necessary. renovations require planning, not only for building owners, but also for markets and investors. exemptions and adaptations for some of our buildings are also necessary and warranted, and the itre report has taken this also into account. on financing needs, the renovation wave has facilitated an unprecedented increase of eu and public funds for building renovation for the coming years. in addition, the social climate fund to be adopted will provide the necessary mid- to long-term financial support to building renovations targeting vulnerable citizens and also smes as a priority to ensure that no one is left behind. so, once again, we need a swift adoption of an ambitious epbd, and i trust that you will support this approach tomorrow.
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner simson, ‘we shape our buildings; thereafter they shape us.’ those were the words of winston churchill talking about the bicameral political system in the uk. but actually, those words resonate with the directive that’s in front of us this evening. yes, it is about shaping buildings, but it is also about shaping the future of our planet and leaving it in a fit and healthy state. the beauty of this directive is that it is not just about buildings. it is about creating jobs. it is about tackling climate change, and it is about achieving a just transition. i absolutely acknowledge the words from my shadow rapporteurs. seán kelly, you spoke about the flexibility – that flexibility is implicit in this directive. tsvetelina penkova spoke about protecting citizens from energy poverty – this is at the heart of what is being proposed and supporting the vulnerable. morten petersen said, ‘look, we want to reduce our use of gas and we want to tackle climate change’ – that makes absolute sense. isabella tovaglieri said… oh, she’s not here. well, actually, she wasn’t at the first shadows meeting. she wasn’t at any of the other shadows meetings, ten in all. she wasn’t even at the itre vote. and she spoke about dignity and respect. well, if you want to show dignity and respect to a piece of legislation, at least show up for the meetings. marisa matias from the left talked about aligning social justice and climate justice – this makes absolute sense within this proposal. can i conclude for a moment in talking about the money? people are concerned about the costs, and yes, costs are high at the moment. but help is there, not just from the recovery and resilience fund, but from many other sources of funding within the european union. i mean, deputy rzońca from poland spoke about ‘where is the money?’ – there’s 3.5 billion available for poland from the recovery and resilience fund, for renovating buildings. the european investment bank says they will provide money at an interest rate of -1%. so in conclusion, the funds are there and not only there, but we also want to provide more funding from the multiannual financial framework. so i recommend and commend this legislation to the house.
madam president, commissioner, ombudsman, i want to start by congratulating you. you have shown professionalism and courage, you have had the courage to write correctly about the things that are wrong in the european institutions and that is your role, whether we are talking about the commission, whether we are talking about the parliament or the council. but what is unpleasant is that we still do not have the answer to what you have been trying to get from the president of the commission. i am the rapporteur on the commission's discharge and believe me, i have a dilemma: what to do with the commission's discharge for 2021? we have not been given an answer to the question, as the committee on budgetary control, why are we still special committees in parliament? i think you should keep it that way. that is what european citizens want, because if the european institutions do not demonstrate transparency, citizens cannot trust the european union and you have to go on. from my point of view, parliament supports you, a majority of parliament, obviously, but if the commission does not understand and parliament does not understand, that we have had cases of colleagues in parliament, now, recently, do not these european officials understand that they must be examples in the lives of citizens? we cannot have a united european union.
madam president, i, too, would like to compliment emily and her staff for the good work that they do. not just because she’s irish, but because she is a seriously good bit of stuff. the report shows that problems around transparency and accountability still persist in the eu institutions, and unrestrained lobby is central to many of our problems. back in 2015, there was an advisory group set up by the commission to advise on how to design eu defence industrial policy. ideally, such a group would be made up of people that would be neutral, but in actual fact it turned out it was stuffed with people linked to the military industry. so it was no surprise that the group produced a report which recommended the creation of a european defence fund, which would funnel increasing amounts of money from the eu budget into the arms industry and which has helped to lead to the increased militarisation of europe. but we do need trust and we need change. and we believe, emily, that you’re the woman that can make it happen.
madam president, it is actually almost unprecedented to see an eu office secure unanimous praise across the house that we’ve heard tonight, and i think that is a great credit to emily and her staff for the crucial work that they do and how well that they do it. and i do think that the work in relation to ursula von der leyen and the text messages with pfizer give an indication of the importance of this office, so comhghairdeas daoibh go léir! i think what was particularly interesting in this year’s annual report is the account of the ombudsman’s finding of maladministration in the european defence agency’s handling of the scandalous decision to allow its chief executive to go off and work for airbus. this is indicative of the revolving door and how lobbying works. airbus is one of europe’s biggest arms companies, a monstrous corporate giant that’s a hotbed of scandal that’s profited so handsomely out of the securitisation and militarisation of eu policy over the years. this paints a very grim picture of how eu defence policy is set by the arms industry for profit rather than the interests and security of the people of europe.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the main objections i have to this package are that it is based largely on ideology and that the substantive considerations have unfortunately been overlooked. we are undermining the competitiveness of the european economy, of european agriculture, and yet the european union is responsible for only 7% of global co2 emissions. the other emitters, especially the major ones, are not particularly concerned, they're basically marking up a policy to reduce co2 emissions. moreover, the main beneficiary is the chinese economy, which has already been mentioned here. china is the leading producer of photovoltaics, electric cars. they are the main beneficiaries of the eu's climate policy, and they are also running coal-fired power plants on a massive scale. this can't go on. as far as the lulucf regulations are concerned, there are also strong reservations. it will hit european livestock, and the cap is responsible for food security. it will hit the forestry industry, which employs 2.5 million workers. this is a road to nowhere, commissioner.
madam president, the european union insists on neoliberal and market solutions as the alpha and omega of the fight against the environmental problems we face. it seeks to create the illusion that mechanisms such as greenhouse gas emission trading, which promotes, in addition to being perverse, the buying and selling of the right to pollute, are ineffective in reducing emissions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. a serious fight against emissions reductions requires another way. and there are alternatives. a normative approach is needed, setting reduction targets in accordance with fair, effective and transparent criteria, incorporating the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, aligned with the dissemination of best available technologies, alongside, inter alia, policy changes in the energy and transport sectors, regaining public control of these strategic sectors, enhancing domestic production and promoting public investment.
mr president, commissioner, vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, the eurobarometer data have shown once again that the fight against climate change is a priority for the citizens of europe. the european parliament, by approving this additional package of measures, which includes reducing co2 emissions from transport, buildings, agriculture and waste management, wants to send a clear message in this direction: and that is that our future and the future of future generations is in a more sustainable society and economy. tomorrow we will adopt a set of ambitious texts, in line with the commitments made by the eu in the paris agreement, which at the same time provide for flexibility schemes for member states to enable them to achieve the objectives that are envisaged. if planned and managed with foresight, the transition to a net zero emission system is not only beneficial for the environment, but also for the economic growth of our societies. sustainable growth, jobs and the environment can and must go together. i therefore hope that the council will respect the commitments it has already made, particularly in the case of the car sector, which is a cornerstone of the objectives we are setting out today. what we are seeing in some states, for example by the italian government, despite the fact that in my country the po valley suffers from one of the worst air pollution in the world, is a serious step backwards and certainly does not represent the will of the majority of european citizens. so i hope the council will be farsighted and honour its commitments.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr ville niinistö, the head of lulucf's cooking department, and the other colleagues for the balanced result. soil and forests play an important role as carbon sinks and storage and, of course, as a source of sustainably produced raw materials. i am personally pleased that the carbon dioxide target of the lulucf regulation is in line with the climate act and that the main objective of the eu climate action plans is to reduce emissions. a significant improvement is that the carbon footprint calculation model is based on the recent, real-world development of the gorges. i hope that the european commission will also show understanding for the annual variation in the swallows, which is quite natural in the forest and often also independent of human activity. it was also wise to postpone the merger of the afolu, i.e. the loadsharing and land use sectors, as the rules on carbon certificates are also only now being worked out. it is absolutely essential that each member state be responsible for its own emissions and removals, because this is the only way to combat climate change effectively.
mr president, tomorrow we will adopt a very important pillar of the fit for 55 package. it encompasses 60% of the eu’s greenhouse gas emissions, and this shows how important that package is. first of all, i would like to thank very much jessica polfjärd, who has been fighting to establish the effort sharing regulation, which is, of course, setting national targets for all those sectors in countries that do not fall under the emissions trading system (ets). it was a big fight in limiting the flexibilities where most of the member states want to delay action every time. i very much thank you for making sure that not too many flexibilities were granted to the member states. talking about delaying action, we can’t do that and we can’t afford that in our land use system. in the land use system, we desperately need to change our source into a sink. i really would like to thank ville niinistö for his efforts in the lulucf regulation to make sure that here also the flexibilities were limited. all this together will bring us as europe now to -57%, as you rightly said, which then hopefully can be translated also into an increased ndc so that we can go to the next cop with an even stronger story as europe.
the commission has already done so. those members, especially those on the right of the centre, who are here in this house, irresponsibly refusing to work on measures to combat the climate and biodiversity crisis, are sacrificing the chances of future generations to live. they are delaying the innovation of our industry to the detriment of future economic development, and they are knowingly accepting the death and displacement of millions of people, especially in the poorer countries of the world. but there's still time to turn back. stop blocking progress with false reports and fear mongering! i would like to ask you to give your constructive support to the solutions for the 21st century, not just in the speeches on sunday but in the votes that are to be taken in this house. buildings insulate instead of horrendous energy bills, modern electrical drives instead of old stinkers, and flourishing landscapes instead of poisoned agricultural deserts.
mr president, in light of europe’s historic responsibility and its capacity to act, the eu must reduce its domestic greenhouse gas emissions by at least 65% by 2030, compared to 1990 levels. to meet this, the effort sharing regulation needs to achieve at least 50% emissions reductions by 2030, compared to the 2005 levels. the emissions reduction trajectory in the agreement is less ambitious than parliament’s position. the agreement contains loopholes that would exempt member states from around half of the emissions cuts that they are supposed to deliver on the basis of the emissions reduction trajectory. member states would still not have to count emissions from unsustainable biomass in their national greenhouse gas inventories. the access to justice element has been gutted. the ipcc has told us that we need rapid, far reaching and unprecedented changes to all aspects of our society. that warning is not really reflected in the agreement.
mr president, today we are discussing three pieces of legislation in the fit for 55 package aiming at climate neutrality in the eu by 2050. among them is the update of the regulation on land use and forests for the period 2021 to 2030. we all know that to achieve the eu’s climate objectives and climate stability, european and national policies rely heavily on carbon storage in forests. however, new data from the united nations framework convention on climate change shows that most eu countries are losing or have lost their forest and terrestrial carbon sinks. this is obviously disastrous. while we say one thing, our actions are leading us in a different direction. overexploitation of forests for energy production appears to be one of the main factors for this loss, as the current fuel crisis leads to an acceleration of panic logging and firewood purchases. the consequence of our failure to develop clean technologies is becoming more apparent. we need to recognise, accelerate and deal with the issue of biomass. harvesting has to be reduced.
mr president, mr commissioner, when this european commission took office in 2019, it established itself as a geopolitical commission committed to sustainable policies, to building europe's image as the guardian of multilateralism. it would have been difficult to anticipate at that time the importance and strategic foresight of this option. today, more than ever, the european union must assert itself through its geopolitical capacity, lead the traditions that are fundamental to the sustainability of the planet, to the defence of democracy, freedom and the sovereignty of the peoples. we have a vision, we have powerful policy instruments, such as the multiple cooperation and trade treaties, and we have financial instruments for external action (global europe, global gateway). and as this report makes clear, we must organize to be stronger in the world. we need to improve the coordination and integration of the european union's external policy in critical areas, imbuing our action in the economy, trade, development cooperation, security and defence with the values and principles we share. the message is clear: we will only be strong and credible externally if we combine seriousness and effectiveness internally - there is no other choice. and, commissioner, we have to make choices. for example, the post-cotonou agreement: 100 countries, 1.5 billion people, blocked by one country. this is intolerable.
mr president, i am very sorry that there are so few of us here on such an important subject, and that it would be much better if there were really a full house and everyone sat down and listened, because it is very important how we look at the european union. and as we talk about the future, i have a great deal of respect and i want to say that i appreciate the european external action service and all our colleagues who work in european diplomacy, as well as in the diplomacy of each country. but i think we have to think about whether we really want the majority vote in the council that we are talking about here tonight, because for me, coming from a smaller member country, it is something that is unacceptable for us and we cannot support it because we feel that we are leaving out the smaller member states. the problem with the european union today is that it's losing support, that people feel that someone else is making decisions somewhere else in brussels, that it's not about them. and that's probably one of the reasons that contributes to that. if we really suppress that slightly different opinion, because that consensus is what brought us together, what makes this european union better, and that's why consensus on these issues where it is, is very much preserved.
mr president, commissioner, i am usually critical of you and i believe that is justified, but in this case i cannot help but support what you said at the beginning of your speech. yes, russian aggression has finally made even our wiser colleagues reflect on the need for a more organized, more united common foreign policy of the member states of the european union. that, of course, cannot happen with federation. this, of course, cannot be done by introducing majority voting, as this would jeopardise the interests of smaller states in key sectors and in territories where they are under pressure. just as most western countries did not listen to us when we warned of the intensification of russian aggression on the eastern flank of the european union and nato, so similar processes are currently developing, for example, in the balkans, where this same threat carries out its hybrid operations in the territories of states that are candidates or will be candidates for membership, and directs and aligns them against eu member states. there must be a single european response to this, not a split action by each individual.
mr president, we’re talking about a stronger eu in the world. if we want a stronger eu in the world, we’ll have an eu that prioritises peace rather than war. there is always an alternative to war. when russia invaded ukraine, it was 100% illegal. there was an alternative and they didn’t take it. but nato’s expansion eastwards didn’t help matters either. it helped to destabilise the area. us and nato involvement in ukraine since 2014 haven’t helped matters. the failure of the eu to engage in diplomacy and dialogue since the war started hasn’t helped matters. our support for wars in libya, afghanistan, iraq hasn’t helped matters. what kind of a strong europe do yous want in the world? the world is not interested in war, but we are promoting it. we are militarized in europe. we’re increasing the profits of the arms industry. why are we going down this path? whatever happened to the europe that wanted peace? we’re losing the plot, we are. we’re pumping arms now into ukraine on the basis that ukraine are going to win. there’s nobody going to win the war in ukraine. this is absolute madness. and the ukrainians are going to die more and more every day as long as we keep pumping arms into a live war.
mr president, it’s ironic that we are looking at the future of the european external action service under the title ‘a stronger eu in the world’, when the truth is that the world – particularly the places where the majority of the world’s population live outside the global north – are shaking their heads in disbelief at the weakness of the european union and its subservience to us empire, even when it’s blatantly against our own interests. instead of championing peace in europe, overcoming differences and difficulties through dialogue and diplomacy, we’ve acted as a pawn for nato – captured by the military industrial complex, imposing sanctions. and now we have an energy crisis, a cost of living crisis, an angry nuclear power on our doorsteps and the inflation reduction act. if we want to be stronger, stop playing us war games, stop antagonising our trading partners, stop interfering and trying to have regime change in countries we don’t like, stop robbing the global south – they’re not going to take your colonialism anymore. if you want to be stronger, stand up for international law, for un principles, multilateralism, in other words, the opposite of what you’re doing now.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, in two words, i will thank the house for the contribution to this discussion but i cannot but react to what was just said. with all due respect, and mick knows i respect him for the work he does, let’s set things straight for just one minute. we are being attacked by a man who has an imperialistic vision of europe. he denies the ukrainians their nation. he is abducting children to re-educate them to become russians because he denies the ukrainian nation its existence. he’s bombing apartment complexes, schools and hospitals. they are committing the most atrocious war crimes. and you’re saying we should not help ukrainians defend themselves? we would be we would be on the wrong side of history if we did not support ukraine in what is for them an existential struggle. if ukraine is overwhelmed by the russians, putin will not stop there. moldova will be next. he will be looking at the baltic states, etc., etc. his ideology compels him to do this. so we need to confront him and we need to do it in unity. he’s been trying to divide us for years, that’s why he’s been reducing energy exports to europe. the inflation is caused mainly by him and by his actions, which leads to higher energy prices, higher food prices. i’m all for peace, but you don’t negotiate with a madman who’s trying to invade your continent and put other peoples under his control. the most fundamental rules of international law have been violated. you need to respect international borders. and our european unity today is needed more than ever before in the face of this aggression. and i have to tell you, very frankly: i’m grateful for the transatlantic bond that gets us through this. i’m grateful for the american engagement and the canadian engagement in this existential struggle for our freedom. but i’m most grateful to these ukrainian men and women who are dying today, every day, to defend also our freedom, our values, our vision of society. and don’t have any illusions about mr putin’s intention. don’t pretend that by not supporting ukraine, we would be supporting peace. we would be making things much, much worse. this is a moment of a decisive element in our future, honourable members, we either stand up against this dictator or we lose everything we hold dear.
the debate is closed, the vote will be held on wednesday 15 march. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. as rapporteur for this report, i would like to emphasise that all the eu's foreign policy objectives must be achieved by using all the instruments available diplomacy, international trade, development cooperation and defence policy. changes should also be made to the eu's decision-making process on foreign policy issues. the eu's foreign policy decisions, which focus on human rights, the protection of international law and the imposition of sanctions, should be taken by qualified majority voting. this is necessary so that one country cannot block the whole eu response, as has unfortunately happened repeatedly in recent times. in its relations with third countries, the eu should move towards the principle of 'more for less', whereby the eu strengthens partnerships with countries that share the principles and core values of the eu's foreign and security policy. it is questionable to allocate money to countries that support, for example, the russian aggression in ukraine. the eu should also set up consulates in embassies in third countries to help eu citizens in times of crisis.
we now move to the next item on the agenda: one-minute speeches pursuant to rule 172. members are invited to take the floor from their seats. we will start with mr sokol. mr sokol, the floor is yours.
mr president, all european patients have the right to medicines. unfortunately, today, many european patients no longer have access to the treatment they need, amid rising prices and the disappearance of generic medicines. this situation is caused, among other things, by production problems, but also by the increase in the deficit of essential products at the level of the european union. so the drugs needed to treat cancer, infections and diseases of the nervous system, epilepsy or parkinson's account for more than half of the treatments we lack. despite the calls made by the european parliament, the european union continues to be increasingly dependent on third countries, in particular india and china, for the production of active pharmaceutical substances or medicines. the problem is far too complex for one state to solve. european solutions are needed and now, as we speak in the plenary, patients in romania are waiting for an answer. i call on the european commission to react and resolve this situation immediately, which has already been raised by the european parliament and which puts the health of hundreds of thousands of people at risk.
mr president, france has just announced that it will delay the connection of its high-speed rail network to the iberian peninsula by 17 years. this decision is an attack on a priority european project, on the union, its finances, laws and values. it encourages protectionism and is detrimental to institutions and actors which have always been committed to the union and to the free movement of people and goods. the basque country has supported this project from the beginning, more than thirty years ago. we have faced terrorist threats and suffered attacks for our determination to finish the work on time on our side of the border. ignacio uría, who was murdered because he was committed to this european project, and the society that supports him deserve firm action from brussels, which is in keeping with their commitment. the european court of auditors points out that these delays ruin those of us who have complied with the laws of the union and who make decisions together with the states, and they allow our global competitors to exploit our weaknesses. the atlantic region presidents have therefore called today in vitoria-gasteiz, as we are demanding here, for the commission and the council to force france to honour its commitments.
a uachtaráin, is náisiún oileánda muid, or chionn mhálanna go ard an fhéaraigh, or cheann léime go ceann an chairn. the world is changing, but the world is changing, and the world is changing, and the world is changing. i've been in the sea for six years. i was born in a fairyland area under a legal protection. i'm glad you're naked and ready to die. i've been waiting for years to be free to die. i'll have the people go to the train and dance with the farraige. are you on board?
president nausėda, the floor is now yours to answer the questions, varying arguments and points that have been made over the past hour.
president of lithuania. – madam president, first of all, i would like to react to some comments made by the colleagues, your parliamentary members from lithuania, for example, mr tomaszewski regretted that i am attacked by some political parties in lithuania even after the elections where i collected 67% of votes. you know, i am new man in the politics. i went to the politics in 2009. in 2019, as an independent candidate, i was elected president of lithuania. but one issue i realised being in the politics is that the politics is not just peaceful and coexistence with the political parties. this is a fight. this is a competition, and this is not a competition for my own interests, but it’s a competition for the ideas i present. and one of the main priorities for which i went to the politics and my programme was dedicated to the social welfare state idea. and even in being in this competition, sometimes with the opposition, sometimes with ruling coalition, we were able to implement some very important measures which will make the life of some sensitive and exposed groups of society better. first of all, the pensioners, socially, affected families and so on and so on. now some comments on migration. i would like to touch the issue of migration because this is very important. we have two kinds of migration: migration which is caused by just spontaneous movements of the people from countries where there are some social problems, those countries which are in a state of war. and this second kind of migration, we call it instrumentalised migration. and we faced this phenomenon into 2020. people just became the weapons in the hands of some totalitarian leaders which are near to us, for example, mr lukashenka. and he used deliberately this kind of migration, just trying to destabilise the situation in my country and in european union. what do we need in this situation? we need a very clear legal framework in order to deal with this kind of challenges. if we will not have it we will just put the instruments into the hands of lukashenka or putin to attack us, to destabilise us. and this is not good. so this is the reason why we ask european parliament, we ask european commission to provide this kind of legal framework in order to be more efficient and in order to be more successful in fighting illegal migration. of course this is not only one issue, there are many other issues. and we have we have to strengthen our strategic communication. we have to help these people, which returned to their origin countries to be reintegrated into the society. and we have much to be, much more active in the countries of origin of migration and transit of migration. now about ukraine: why is lithuania is taking the lead in providing the support to ukraine? i can explain it by telling you some historic facts. there was a time in the 14th, 15th, 16th century when we were in the same commonwealth, the commonwealth of lithuanians co-existing with belarusians and ukrainians. and it was very peaceful formation of the countries, one common body of countries, and there was full respect of the nations to each other, even the nations which belong to different language groups. they have very different traditions. and, you know, these kind of feelings that we remember lead to empathy towards ukraine. we treat them like the brothers and sisters, they are our brothers and sisters. the second reason: lithuania has no one else — probably maybe baltic countries and poland, putting them together — who understands that the fight. in the battle on the battlefields in ukraine it is a freedom fight. but not only the freedom fight for ukrainians, this is our freedom fight. because, as my colleague, i think, from estonia mentioned, the second target will be the baltic countries, poland, maybe romania, and there will be third target if putin is not stopped in ukraine. there will be next targets, we have to be fully aware of it. china: yes, lithuania has some interesting, challenging history of relations with china. several years ago, we decided to leave so-called format of ‘17 plus one’ because we realised that this format is not promising very much to us and implementing very important infrastructure projects and so on and so on. and we decided to leave it. and we still defend the idea that we have to speak with china with one voice. so ‘27 countries plus one’ would be the most suitable format in communication and relations with china. some other countries followed our example, and now this format is already 13 or 14 plus one. and i think that sooner or later we will come to the conclusion that the best way to deal with china is just 27 plus one. enlargement of european union: this is very important and we are a keen proponent of enlargement of europe. we defend the right of our nations to join the european union sooner or later. so this is the reason why we support the aspirations of moldova, the aspirations of ukraine, the aspirations of georgia, because we remember very well what a powerful trigger from progress our membership in the european union was. as we entered european union, we started from 43% of gdp per capita. now we already reached 86% of gdp per capita, and we are running forward with excellent speed. so this is a huge opportunity to be european, but this is also a responsibility. to be european means responsibility, to be sensible, to be united and to help the countries in need. and this country in need is now ukraine. so we have to understand and remember it very well.
thank you, mr president. the sitting will resume in approximately one minute, when we start with the vote. (the sitting was briefly suspended)
we will take this point when we come to the vote on that file.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
president. – we move to the report by mr cuffe on energy performance of buildings. now we come back to the request by mr buchheit. your request, mr buchheit, has to be dealt with. we will need to check the low threshold. mr zanni, is this your group’s request? it is a different procedure. there is no low threshold. – after the vote on the commission proposal:
rapporteur. – madam president, a compelling case for the renovation of buildings. but on the substantial issue, i would like to refer the file back to committee for interinstitutional negotiations.
the commission, in its latest report, calls for a more balanced approach to the economic and social cohesion of the union. last week, the commission announced that it would be taking a decision on the eu's pre-financing, and that it would be able to end the law on the general budget by the end of the year. it was a tough time a couple of years ago. i'm going to go and find out. without that, we can't let them give us the taste. the eu must be able to take action to protect the environment, but at the same time we must always support laws that protect the environment. it is therefore important that the commission introduces a more flexible approach to reducing fraud. without law, member states will allow investment to be made based on the specific needs of their citizens.
mr president, mr borrell, the override clause would degrade any claim israel might have on being a liberal democracy. i applaud the people of israel for calling out this legislation, but the new government has asserted jewish people’s ‘exclusive and inalienable right to all parts of the land of israel’. and vandalising the delicately constructed separation of powers is a precondition for expansion of settlements and ultimately annexation. not only should we call out this injustice, but we should back up our words by action. a case in point is the forthcoming due diligence legislation. airbnb generates profits from rental of properties in illegal settlements in the west bank. a meaningful human rights due diligence would prevent this type of commercial activity in the occupied territories under the present circumstances. so i support the thousands of protesting israelis, i support the right of palestinians to self-determination and the two—state solution.
mr president, mr high representative, you asked whether it was interference on the part of parliament to talk about the situation in israel. we are not talking about the situation in israel. we are talking about a partnership agreement between the european union and israel and it is our duty as parliament to know what is in that partnership agreement and how that partnership agreement is being respected. this partnership agreement is based on the peace process, on the maintenance of democracy and on common values. we are now seeing that the will of this right-wing and far-right israeli government is in total breach of what is contained in this partnership agreement. and so it is up to us, as the european parliament, to give directions on what needs to be done. we know that the reform of the judiciary is an attack on democracy and a passport for annexation. that is not what is in our partnership agreement with israel. how are we going to respond to it? a lot of things. the first, as you said, is through diplomacy, dialogue and i think we must continue. but there's also the freezing of the association council, the sanctions we can use against those settlers who did this punitive mission... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, i feel that i want to ask the question today how many members of the european commission are left? there are two of them today, so twice as much as it is usual in this chamber. well, the issue is maybe not the most important issue for the eu. the state of israel will celebrate in a few weeks 75 years of its existence and to be honest, i feel strong sympathy with israel, for many good reasons. they are our partner; the only rule of law based democratic state in the middle east, the only jewish state on earth. we have an association agreement with israel which is outdated and i can only ask the high representative to negotiate a new one. but you don’t have to feel strong sympathy with israel just to treat israel with fairness like each and every other rule of law based democratic state on earth. and this is not happening if we from outside try to insinuate this or that about israel. so, since i only have one minute of speaking time, i strongly ask to treat israel as every other democratic rule of law based state on earth.
mr president, mr high representative, i would like to thank you for your work. israel is a traditional friend and ally of the eu. as the only liberal democracy in the middle east, we regard israel as part of our european family of values. the independence of the judiciary is one of the principles of the democratic rule of law. we know all too well in the eu that it must be defended again and again. hundreds of thousands of israelis see their rule of law threatened. there are massive protests across the country against the current government's planned judicial reform. she wants to dramatically undermine the rights of the supreme court. a restructuring of this magnitude is an attack on the rule of law in israel. the eu must not remain silent on this issue. the complex political situation of the occupied territories, whose status the new government intends to change fundamentally, calls for independent courts that are capable of acting and are effective. the israeli president isaac herzog is therefore right to warn against a trial by fire in his country and to call for a review of judicial reform. mr borrell, support president herzog for the sake of israel, its rule of law and its democracy.
mr. president, please! i myself have strong reservations about today's debate about the alleged deterioration of the state of democracy in israel. i feel that we are again playing the role of the supreme judge in this assembly, which will not improve our reputation in international relations. i think israel is on the walls of this house for the third time in a few months. this young country has a 75-year democratic tradition and shares the same values as the european union. in a vibrant democracy, protests are a regular occurrence, and they are normal. but judicial reform is an internal israeli political and democratic process that certainly does not need external intervention. but let me remind you that on thursday night, terrorists seriously wounded three young men in tel aviv. this was not done, of course, because of judicial reform, but because of the continued incitement of ethnic hatred in the region. this event has far greater implications for the security situation and the lives of israeli citizens than any judicial reform that has just begun.
mr president, israeli judicial reforms that are proposed are regrettable, but regardless of the democratic makeup of the state itself, israel has consistently crushed and systematically dismantled the palestinian state. and when people talk about the rule of law in israel, let’s be honest, there is no rule of law. it has consistently flouted international law, mr borrell – and we have done nothing, nothing to condemn. we haven’t as much as sanctioned them in any way. we have occupied territories where we import products from. we have sent no signals to israel that we condemn what they are doing. so, when i talk about democracy, we should insist that there is no further occupation of the palestinian state; that they shall go back to the original borders, as was proposed in the two-state solution. and mr borrell, there is no two-state solution viable now because israel is systematically dismantling the palestinian state as we speak, and we are shamefully sitting on our hands all the time.
mr president, vice-president borrell, i recently returned from the occupied palestinian territories. there i witnessed israel directly extracting fossil fuels out from under palestinian land. despite your regular condemnations of israel’s disregard for international law, the eu has rewarded israel with a multimillion-euro gas deal. and my question to you, mr borrell, is why is one occupier’s oil and gas more acceptable than another’s?
mr president, the israeli repression of the palestinian people is growing ever more brutal, and the current israeli government, which is composed of fascist forces and which is pursuing israel's longstanding plans in an even more blatant manner, is preparing to escalate its policy of forcibly expelling palestinians from their homes and lands. the european union's repeated declarations in favour of the two-state solution are in stark contrast to the connivance, expressed in multiple forms of support and cooperation and a double standard, of the israeli policy, which has long made such a solution unfeasible, in gross violation of relevant un resolutions and successive agreements with the palestinian authorities. we must go beyond statements, mr borrell. we must take a position of unequivocal support for the immediate realization of the right of the palestinian people to a sovereign and independent state with the 1967 borders, with its capital in east jerusalem, and the implementation of the right of return of refugees, in compliance with the relevant un resolutions. all solidarity with the palestinian people.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall not conclude the debate. the debate is closed. this was a debate among parliamentarians. i am sure that those who have followed it from here in strasbourg or from tel aviv or ramallah will have been able to see the different points of view and the interest with which european parliamentarians follow events in israel. this does not imply interference or a willingness to lecture anyone, but it does imply showing concern and interest. let the israelis, who have a vibrant democracy, solve their problem. president herzog's mediation efforts are truly remarkable. i will not repeat here what he himself has said, which is published in all the media and which is certainly a much higher authority than mine to comment on what is happening in israel. what is clear is that the situation is worsening in terms of the levels of violence and conflict between israel and the occupied palestinian territories; that we must continue to work to bring security to israel, freedom to the palestinians and peace and stability to the entire region. it's clear that trying to resolve the israeli-palestinian conflict is a priority for us. that is why i must reject the statements by members of the israeli government who were calling on us not to worry about this problem because it was not our problem; that we should rather deal with the cyprus problem, which, yes, certainly, is also pending. but yes, we will also be concerned with trying to contribute with our efforts to the return to dialogue between israelis and palestinians, between israel and palestine. which means talking to both sides. with israel, through the dialogue we have relaunched at ministerial level. because association agreements are not with a government, they are with a country, they are with a state. and we can't just suspend it because the political majority changes. the deals are with israel. today there is one government, tomorrow there will be another, as there was another before. it is important that we keep the channels of communication open with both israel and palestine. you are right: the international community has made many statements and taken few actions. let us try to contribute, as far as possible, to constructive action which will, as i say, guarantee the security of israel, the well-being and freedom of the palestinians, and peace and security for all in the region. we shall continue to make efforts in this direction from the commission, from the council and with their political support.
mr president, i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to asbestos.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the previous debate, israel was accused twice of fascism. i think that such words should not be used in the european parliament, and if they are used, they should be reprimanded.
i would like to thank you very much, mr bütikofer. i shall inform the president of your comments. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
in writing. peace in the middle east is essential and i believe that the eu must act with diplomacy. israel is a democracy and it's the only one in the area. israel is an essential partner of the eu and one that the eu needs. i think we have to recognize israel's right to defend itself and condemn the terrorist attacks in palestine. justice reform is a national competence and it is the right of the israelis to demonstrate if they are dissatisfied. it is important for the eu to use the democratic path both in internal reforms in israel and in israel's relationship with palestine. we need democratic elections in palestine, in which all palestinians can participate, to find a common diplomatic language between israel and palestine. i appreciate the balanced statement of the high representative josep borrell and i believe that, especially in the current context, peace in the middle east is paramount.
in writing. we are very concerned about what is happening in the middle east. the right-wing government in israel has not yet chosen the means. the country is in deep trouble. the west bank has been caught in a wave of violence for a long time. last weekend, israel was flooded with record-breaking protests. they took to the streets to reform the judiciary and to protect democracy. the israeli parliament has passed a bill that would introduce the death penalty for the first time in the country, only for palestinians. but what concerns us most is the government's attempt to impose an apartheid-like regime in the palestinian territories in the west bank. the government wants to transfer the authority to administer the settlements from the military administration to a civilian minister. the minister would thus become the de facto governor of the west bank. in doing so, the government is in flagrant violation of international law and also of the principles of the united nations, and is apparently making very concrete preparations for the full annexation of the occupied palestinian territories to israel. europe and the world must wake up. such actions by israel are aimed at annexation. and with them, the plans of the two countries will be buried forever. a palestinian state will no longer be possible in the west bank. recognition of palestine must therefore be our collective response. europe must act. we need to seriously reconsider our relationship with israel and, if it doesn't change course, freeze the eu deal.
no objections were raised within the 24 hours period laid down for the recommendation for a decision not to raise objections to a delegated act submitted by the econ committee, which was announced at the opening of yesterday's meeting. the recommendation is therefore deemed to be adopted in accordance with rule 111 (6). it shall be published together with the text adopted.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission, the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on the situation in georgia (2023/2594 ((rsp)). mr várhelyi, vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, spoke on behalf of the commission.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members of parliament, over the past week, thousands of georgians exercised their right to peaceful demonstration against the adoption of a law on transparency of foreign influence in first reading by the georgian parliament. across the country, women and men took to the streets, holding european flags to recall their attachment to democracy, our shared european values, and to georgia’s path towards the european union. after these demonstrations, the ruling party announced last thursday their decision to withdraw the law, which was voted down by the parliament the following day. the withdrawal of both drafts is an encouraging and positive sign. honourable members, georgians have a future in the eu. the european perspective granted last june set out relations on an even closer course under the eu enlargement policy framework, building upon the long-standing cooperation anchored in the association agreement. the european path sets the bar high as regards standards in georgia that georgia needs to meet, and the values it has to maintain. it brings increased scrutiny and monitoring and a need to implement reforms. it also provides a wider set of eu tools to accompany georgia in this process. the georgian people, in their vast majority, have expressed their resolve to join the eu. the government has sent similar messages. now it is time for action on the ground. we acknowledge important steps made by georgia in the reform process. now, work on reforms and priorities set by the commission must continue. strengthening the independence of the state institutions, upholding the highest standards of human rights and the rule of law are key priorities. let me recall that on 2 february, the commission services have provided further policy guidance on the eu acquis-related reforms in their analytical report, completing our opinion from june last year on the country’s application for the eu membership. a comprehensive assessment of georgia’s progress in meeting accession criteria will be carried out for the first time as part of the autumn 2023 enlargement package, and therefore you should anticipate an even fuller picture. honourable members, this parliament adopted last month a resolution on the health situation of mr mikheil saakashvili. we conducted an eu démarche with the minister of justice on 27 february, and our message was very clear: it is the legal responsibility of the georgian authorities to fully guarantee mr saakashvili’s rights, both as a detainee and as a defendant, in line with georgia’s international commitments. the eu is ready to assist partners on this matter, including as regards efforts to ensure medical assistance. let me conclude by stressing that the eu remains a close friend and partner to georgia and its people. this is a crucial moment for the whole country to unite and to work resolutely for the common strategic goal of eu membership and european values.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, the highly disturbing events in georgia must not be viewed in isolation. just as russia wages a war of aggression against ukraine and tries to destabilise moldova, the kremlin is desperate to retain georgia and its sphere of influence. i applaud the courage shown by the protesters in georgia. europe sees your bravery and will not turn its back on you. your courage has stopped the passage of the kremlin-inspired foreign agents act. however, we should not be naive. the fight does not end here. these events are an important reminder that we will never have lasting peace and security in europe as long as these grey zones remain. the place of ukraine, moldova and georgia is firmly in the european union. the georgian people must continue pressing for critical reforms that will bring georgia towards eu candidate status. only the georgian people can hold its leadership accountable. only the georgian people can challenge the might of the oligarchs. in conclusion, as an mep from latvia, i remember how difficult the accession process is. allow me to remind you. windows of opportunity can only arrive once or twice in a generation and do not stay open for long. i appeal to the georgian people not to waste your window of opportunity.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, i would like to start by congratulating the people of georgia who, by their active stance, have stopped the government’s intention to adopt a russian—style foreign agent law. i also reiterate our solidarity and appreciation to the civil society in georgia. fulfilling the european will of the georgian people, the georgian authorities must fully implement the 12 recommendations of the european commission, bearing in mind that the health and life of the poisoned and imprisoned mikheil saakashvili is an integral part of the eu requirements. europe will not open the door to any form of political revanchism. i regret that the eu flags were burning in tbilisi today. it is a sad day for all georgia’s friends in the european union. nevertheless, i believe that the historical wisdom of the people of georgia who remember the horrors of totalitarianism will take over.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, commissioner, a full-scale invasion of ukraine means a geopolitical shift in our neighbourhood. georgian people understand it very well. it is a turning point for all of us in the region. therefore i pay tribute to their courage in protesting about the appalling foreign agent law. i would like to mention that keeping the third president of georgia, mikheil saakashvili, in prison as putin’s hostage, means a deteriorating future for georgia. hopefully the georgian government understands it similarly to people’s protests recently in tbilisi and elsewhere.
on behalf of the the left group. – mr president, commissioner, georgia – like many other former eastern bloc countries – has not fared well under the thumb of predatory financial capitalism, crushing economic reforms and a hollowing out of the state. the ngo sector has stepped in to fill that void, and an entire middle class now is dependent on this sector and foreign funding. the initial upset about this law was about people’s incomes being put in danger. not that it was pro- or anti-russian, or western. the ngo sector rallied and got the proposal retracted while apparently charging the georgian state with taking a dark authoritarian turn for looking at laws similar to what exists in russia, in australia, in the us since 1938, and may be coming to the eu sometime soon. that we have had condemnation of the law from the eu and others who either have or would happily implement similar measures is the height of hypocrisy. that this has been seized upon to inflame tensions in georgia, which could potentially reignite the frozen conflict on its borders, is very disappointing.
i have to apologize to my colleague wallace. he was actually going to ask a question, and i thought i was being told by the services that mr bütikofer was already past his speaking time. that's why i'm afraid i've missed the moment.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the only positive element about the political situation in georgia is that the law on the transparency of foreign influence is withdrawn. copying wrong solutions is never a good practice. citizens did the right thing by standing up to it. it’s good that their pressure had a positive outcome. the similarities with the original law in russia are as evident as the russian interference in georgia. it’s unfortunate that the georgian government is threatening the eu perspective of the country. it gives the argument to all those who advocated the unjust separation of georgia from ukraine and moldova last year. instead of working to fulfil the list of conditions to advance on the eu integration path like other two countries, the georgian leaders are doing the opposite. there can be only european progress with european commitment and values. the dream of the georgian people is europe.
mr president, over the last days, we have witnessed a strong sense of protest among georgian people against the so-called foreign agents law. yes, we do know that the ruling georgian team decided to pull back this draft of law, but it remains very clear that the intent of this legislative act was to silence opposition and media. the georgian government, controlled by the oligarchy ivanishvili, has turned away from the cause of democracy step by step. leaders of the opposition have suffered from the repressions by the judicial system controlled by the government. we recently heard accusations made by the prime minister garibashvili against ukrainian president zelenskyy for supporting the coup in georgia. also accusations were made against this particular house for dragging georgia into the war with russia. of course, these accusations are ridiculous and have no basis whatsoever. but we must continue supporting the democratic processes in georgia, even if the sitting prime minister does not does not like us and does not like it.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, let’s call this exactly what it is: a pro-russian government parroting russian propaganda to defend a russian law. the georgian people won this round, but the threat is far from over. prime minister garibashvili says he wants eu candidacy. wonderful! so do the georgians, so do i. but make no mistake, prime minister: if you kill your former president, no eu candidacy. if you pass any foreign agent law: no candidacy. if you destroy democracy: no candidacy. pro-democracy protesters are not extremists, satanists or liberal fascists just because they check your power grab. and absolutely nobody wants georgia to absurdly open a second front. so stop these desperate putinesque demonisations and make real progress on the 12 recommendations – no cosmetic fixes. and if not, georgia’s courageous people will hold you to account.
blue-card speech. – mr president, i wanted to make the point that deputy bütikofer made an inaccurate statement about me: he accused me of supporting every authoritarian regime going. i’d like to inform the gentleman that i don’t support any government anywhere. i’ve yet to see a government i like, authoritarian or otherwise. for him to actually take that position actually shows a serious lack of balance. i thought he was a smarter guy than that. i am not taking any sides on georgia either. but i do believe that things work out better when we let the people of the country decide the future for themselves. let the people of georgia ... (the president cut off the speaker)
i just would like to remind colleagues that when you are speaking you cannot show some photos or something like that so i would appreciate it if you would take that into account in future.
mr president, the people of georgia are fighting for european values and their weapons are the european flags. their fight is non-violent, but they are very certain about their future. on the other hand, the commissioner for neighbourhood is silent: he doesn’t fight for the georgian people’s right to be european. i would like to know what does he intend to do to show support for the georgians who – i say again – are europeans? i know the commissioner’s opinion about the members of this house. i would like to remind him that orbán has useful idiots, but somewhere else, they are not here. he needs to look for them somewhere else. and also, one last message: this house stands together with the georgian people for the right to be european. it’s time that the commissioner does the same.
mr president, i have to say, i think this debate is really very unhelpful. while the odd person has come in and argued for calm and dialogue and diplomacy, most people here, quite frankly, have been happily stirring the pot with no apparent care for the consequences. nobody but nobody in here should be doing that. everybody on all sides should leave georgia be. since 1991, the georgian people have been put through the wringer of neoliberal shock therapy, political instability and vicious political polarisation. a third of the people in georgia under 50 are considering emigrating. some 61% of them say that no political party represents them. it is one of the most unequal countries in europe and central asia: that’s what we should be focusing on. that’s what matters to the people of georgia. and yet people come in here trying to inflame things. you’re giving out about the georgian foreign agents act when the commission comes out and leaks its own version of exactly the same thing and you’ve nothing to say about this. this type of thing is madness. previously, the eu argued for dialogue and de-escalation, i ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, moldova has my greatest admiration because, let’s face it, with russia breathing down chișinău’s neck, choosing the eu was incredibly courageous. and today our union needs to show that very same courage to halt russia’s hybrid war, because this alliance of kremlin agents and exiled oligarchs who cruelly prey on the most vulnerable to foment insurrection must be stopped. council, commission: help moldova, not this summer, but now. give chișinău all technical support it needs for rapid eu reforms and help them to communicate their choices clearly. second, shore up security cooperation swiftly. a civilian csdp mission would be excellent, but this summer might be too little too late. and third, fight even harder against energy poverty and obscene inflation, and sanction shor and plahotniuc. we will not let the moldovan people be robbed of their european future.
mr president, colleagues, of course the situation in moldova is tense and worrying, and of course that is also due to the influence of the kremlin and pro-russian agents who are trying to divert attention from their failures in ukraine. of course, moldova and ukraine belong in the european union. however, there is something i don't understand and that is why it is necessary right now, when the moldovan public needs unity, that the moldovan authorities try to continue to take away the autonomy of the bulgarian community there. i don't know if you know, but in moldova there are between 100,000 and 300,000 bulgarians who have been living there since 1776. and they have been loyal citizens of this country. why is it necessary for this autonomy to be fragmented, why is it necessary for these people to become enemies? why is it necessary to deprive these people of civil and political rights? this is something that has to end. and here you are responsible and you, mr. commissioner, you have brilliantly defended the rights of the bulgarians in macedonia. i hope that you will continue to fight like a lion for the rights of the bulgarians in moldova, because moldova's path is to the european union. but that goes through respecting the rights and the legitimate interests of all the communities and all the minorities there.
mr president, the republic of moldova needs our support, as its stability is threatened. in recent weeks, the authorities in chisinau have faced unprecedented pressures and situations and have discovered the direct involvement of the russian federation in attempting to destabilise the country by organising violent protests. such incidents prove that the european union must move from theory to practice. at the moment, my country, romania, is assisting the republic of moldova, providing it with everything from financial support to energy resources, resources that it needs, while the promises of donors are delayed. i therefore call on the european commission and the member states to provide swift access to pre-accession funds for the republic of moldova, integrating and integrating existing expertise in the region to ensure that these resources are used appropriately and in the interest of citizens. the aim is to maintain the european path of the republic of moldova and ensure the democratic resilience of the country, so we must not delay any longer, we must act now.
mr. president, moldovans are europeans and what is happening now on the streets of chisinau is invented in putin's laboratories, but financed with money stolen from moldovan banks. with the billions stolen by the oligarchs, they now pay directly to the so-called protesters. there are things proven, there are things recorded. no one doubts that anymore, so i say it again, as i said before: cut off their money! if we don't give them access to money in the european union, they won't have anything to create these fake protests. it is time for the magnitsky act in the european union to apply to the corrupt and i think the example of the corrupt oligarchs in the republic of moldova, especially ilan shor, must be applied now, we can't wait any longer. how long are we going to wait, how long are we going to let them walk around with their dirty money in european banks before we cut off their access to money?
mr president, moldova is dealing with an extremely sensitive situation: a brutal war next door, intense polarisation internationally, a russian military presence in transnistria and international actors increasingly pressing states to pick sides. now article 11 of the constitution states, ‘the republic proclaims its permanent neutrality’, and the overwhelming majority of moldovans have consistently been against joining either nato or the russian-led csto. like my own country, ireland, moldova doesn’t have a strong military, and its neutrality has been a crucial guarantee of security for its people. and i think now moldovans are clearly worried about being pulled into the war and seeing it spread, and we should be taking the utmost caution not to pull at the threads of moldovan neutrality. i think it’s a disgrace that we’re forcing countries to take sides. why can’t they have good relations with russia and with the eu? it’s a disgrace that there’s been the revocation of broadcast licenses for the six russian—language channels in moldova: we have to respect all rights of all moldovans.
mr president, moldova has a constitutional commitment to the principle of neutrality. moldova, like georgia, has two frozen conflict zones, and its latest period of relative peace was hard won. moldova’s neutrality is the central element in the balance of power that has allowed for the current delicate arrangement of political, socio—economic and military positions and leverage to remain intact. moldova has been rocked by the war: inflation and refugee inflows. undermining its neutrality now will not help. unpopular reforms have been rammed through and tensions between the central government and the breakaway state of transnistria are high. moldova could well open up a new front in this war. religious and ethnic tensions are already high. russia, ukraine, nato and the eu are all complicit in this, but the people of moldova are the ones who will pay the price if their neutrality is trampled upon.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, thanks to you and president ursula von der leyen for holding this important event today. women with ambition change the world. they are the change—makers, the innovators, the pioneers, the trailblazers. yet ambition and drive can only take a woman so far if she does not have access to the tools she needs to succeed. the tools to make that change. our green and digital future must be inclusive of women. if these transitions are not inclusive of women, not only will the benefits miss half the population, but the population will miss out on half of all potential innovation. we have so much to do on inequality, but let me focus on digital. to quote professor karen spärck jones, with respect, ‘computing is too important to be left to men’. yet we know that the gender divide exists and is in fact growing, while technology races ahead. i’ve just returned from the un conference which looked at tech, ai and the future of these industries and how 78% of jobs that will be created in our future will be in these areas. we have to make sure that young girls and women benefit from this technologically extraordinary time of change. it is critical. we have a small window of opportunity to prevent systemic inequalities being replicated in the digital world. how dreadful to think that actually the inequalities we have now will be replicated once again. surely it’s time to make sure they are not replicated and that we correct these inequalities now, that we take away those stereotypes that young girls, young women, still face with the lower numbers in stem at present. if we are to foster the marie curies, the ada lovelaces, the margaret hamiltons, the samantha cristoforettis and shirin ebadis of tomorrow, we must work to close the digital gender divide both in europe and across the world today. it is about dealing with all of those inequalities we speak about here endlessly – whether we are talking about representation (the only 26.6% of women in parliaments worldwide), the extraordinary violence destroying women’s lives – all of these inequalities need to be dealt with now. if we are to face the future with confidence, let us make sure we are supporting and empowering those who will build our world of tomorrow.
blue-card speech. – i’m actually surprised, nicolae, that you tell lies about me. i have never in my life said a good word about putin, but you’re buying into the mainstream media narrative that because we fight for peace, we’re accused of being putin puppets. we have no interest in putin or in what russia is up to. we’ve condemned the war. it’s completely illegal. why are you buying in? are you trying to play it to your own media by telling lies about me? what’s wrong with you? and if you’re so goddamn fond of the war, why aren’t you over there fighting yourself?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is indeed a bad thing that we have to increase the capacity of our defence industry. but we are not doing this because the eu has suddenly become belligerent, but we must do this because russia has become an aggressor who wants not only to wipe ukraine off the map but to destroy the whole european architecture of peace and security. that's why we have to do this. i wonder why you do not address your demands to the fascist regime in moscow, why you pretend all the time that the eu has the power to end the war! have you ever taken note that ukraine has the right to self-defense, that the un charter requires that russia must withdraw, must accept ukraine's national sovereignty and territorial integrity? if you're so full of such high-sounding words, why don't you say it just once? according to your logic, should the anti-hitler coalition have been condemned for fighting the aggressor with weapons? this has nothing to do with peace policy, mrs demirel; the lies you are spreading here are the lies of moscow's fifth column.
the formal list of speakers is closed. blue cards are given to those speakers who have not yet had the opportunity to speak in the debate. spontaneous speech
madam president, i absolutely disagree with what everyone here is saying about us getting guns together. we've seen what's happened with the joint procurement of vaccines. but first of all, i don't think we're an institution that's supposed to deal with military and defense matters at all. we have written in our treaties that our defence policy is to maintain peace, prevent conflict, provide military advice, disarmament and humanitarian aid. we're going against something we're not supposed to be doing. so how do we explain this to the public? i agree that we should help ukraine, but i don't think that by starting to get arms together now, the european union, that that's something that is the solution to this conflict that is happening in ukraine right now. i don't agree with that. i think the military institution is nato. the european union countries that wanted to be in nato are in nato, those that wanted to cooperate militarily are cooperating, and it is not our place and it is not our right to even deal with such issues. the citizens didn't give us that.
madam president, russia invaded ukraine; it was illegal, it was 100% wrong and we’ve condemned it from day one. we’ve also condemned the fact that the eu has done so little to develop the dialogue and diplomacy to bring it to an end. armoured cars, tanks and guns did not bring peace to the streets of belfast and derry. they brought misery, that’s what they brought. and only poor people die in these wars, whether they like it or not. the middle class and the rich don’t fight in these wars. at the recent munich security conference, when asked why namibia abstained at the un on the vote regarding the war, then namibian prime minister said our focus is on resolving the problem, not on shifting blame. the money used to buy weapons, she said, could be better utilised to promote development in ukraine, in africa, in asia and other places in europe itself where many people are experiencing hardships. this is madness. we have lost the plot in here. we want peace and we’re not supporting putin and we’re not putin’s puppets, we have no respect for him, but we want peace and not war.
madam president, listening to the cheerleading in here, safe and secure thousands of miles away from the front line, i think it would be a useful exercise for us to remind ourselves about what ordinary ukrainians are experiencing. the economist’s reports of forced recruitment across the country. draftees with no experience or training are being sent to the front in what a uk minister calls wwi-levels of attrition. casualty figures are secret but we know there are estimates of about 120 000. battalion commanders tell the washington post of recruits fleeing positions en masse. politico reports a crackdown on deserters. these are human beings and there is a shameful lack of empathy for ordinary people in the war rhetoric in here. the debate is about keeping the weapons flowing to keep the war going. ukraine is burning through a generation of men; sons, husbands, brothers who can never be replaced. this cannot go on indefinitely. and you sickening war generals who sit in here and will these men to our debts, you make me sick! we need peace. we need dialogue, however unpleasant that may be.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while the united kingdom is finally announcing firm measures to combat illegal immigration, while italy is anticipating a real invasion and europe should do everything possible to protect its borders, while ngos are complicit in human trafficking, while your procrastination, laxity and cowardice are responsible for the deaths at sea, you want to go further, further and further. the same causes produce the same effects, the same tearful words of openness and welcome will obviously drive more and more migrants to leave and sometimes to die at sea. if you had any humanity, any real humanity, you would obviously dissuade them from leaving. so stop trying to make them believe that there is a european eldorado that does not exist. stop encouraging them to come to europe at the risk of their lives. you are pushing them into the clutches of the smuggling mafias who are committing the worst atrocities against them. you're organizing their uprooting, away from their families and their land. the real humanity is, of course, the immigration determination. your laxity is shameful and guilty.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what a disgrace! it is a shame to hear even italian officials exploiting the dead to go against a government. the tragedy of cutro is not an italian tragedy, it is a european tragedy. and the solutions must be european. but why don't we also talk about the disappearing children, what's happening in italy? but you don't know how complicated it is. italy leaves no one behind and no one in europe should, and does not, leave italy behind: 60,000 migrants have been rescued by the coast guard and the treasury department. who did this? in the face of a 250% increase in migration flows from tunisia, libya, the turkish trade. then let's talk about this. we are not throwing poison at a member state which must be helped by everyone because we are europe, not that italy is there and europe is somewhere else. so what i heard, look, it's really embarrassing. because they do not honour and respect the many victims, the sacrifices of human life that belong to everyone and that we all have to respect. but not you, not you leftists! that's like me saying that ngos collect bribes and exploit human lives and migrants and work with the divers. is that right, dear?
mr president, commissioner johansson, this is the fifth debate in the last two years in the european parliament on deaths in the mediterranean and the need for legal and safe routes and a european rescue and salvage mechanism. seventy-two dead off the coast of calabria, near crotone. according to the testimony of survivors, the old fishing boat was packed with at least two hundred people. and you know what? frontex had warned of the presence of that fishing vessel near the coast. and you know what? that the government of giorgia meloni has made life impossible for non-governmental organizations, so that there were none near the wreck. the consequence is that the coast guard did not intervene. the italian authorities did not intervene or respond, and therefore, there is a criminal investigation being conducted by the italian public prosecutor's office to determine responsibility. but there's more. these 72 victims, 18 of them children, add up to the 26,000 deaths in the mediterranean in the last ten years, from iraq, iran, syria, afghanistan, pakistan, somalia, our tortured neighbourhood, and this calls for a response. this can come from the new pact on migration and asylum, with effective solidarity and relocations, binding relocation mandates and also, of course, with obligations for member states to comply with international humanitarian law in a european rescue and relief mechanism. so, believe me, this european parliament cannot stop until there is binding solidarity of the member states, strict compliance by all member states with international humanitarian law and european law and a european rescue and salvage mechanism, as well as legal and safe routes and humanitarian visas to reach the european union.
mr president, colleagues, in the late 1980s i first saw someone drowning at sea. i was a crew member on board a greenpeace ship, and we were on a campaign in the mediterranean sea just off majorca. people often think of the mediterranean as a calm sea. but that night, a ferocious storm was raging when we answered a mayday call. a sailing boat was going down in extremely rough conditions. we did everything we could, hauling the crew on board as the boat was sinking before our very eyes. two made it. two did not. saving lives at sea is a duty, and europe is failing to uphold that duty by closing legal pathways with illegal pushbacks, by persecuting humanitarians. the distress calls are still coming in. it’s time that we answered them. it’s time we answered them now.
president, commissioner, council and colleagues, torpekai amarkhel was an afghan journalist, a kind, strong woman with a passion for her profession which she was no longer able to pursue since the taliban took power. and she had only one option: the european union is a great example of this. two weeks ago, she drowned off the coast of calabria. torpekai is one of five family members who drowned at the same time, one of dozens of sailors who disappeared in the waves, one of the 26,000 people who have died in the mediterranean since 2014. another story like that of commissioner johansson. torpekai died because the eu did not create a safe escape route, because italy is deliberately frustrating the work of ngos who fill the hole that italy itself leaves by evading responsibility for rescues. behind every number is a story, and as long as eu policy is only about keeping refugees out, stories will be added. we will continue to tell them until our government leaders translate their hollow condolences into a european policy of solidarity that really saves lives.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! for every boat that sinks in the mediterranean, it means more parents will never see their children smile again. the children are the worst affected. we must never forget that it could have been your child or my child that was in the boat if we had been born in another part of the world. migrants are more than numbers on a piece of paper. in desperation, people risk their lives. when there are no legal routes into europe, this will continue, and the fate of people will be in the hands of human traffickers. in the run-up to a common set of rules, countries are now competing to see who can behave the worst towards migrants. it's referred to as someone else's responsibility. there has to be an end to the shirking of responsibility. the eu cannot help everyone, of course, but we can take our responsibility. let us therefore take responsibility for a long-term sustainable migration policy, where those who have the right to seek asylum can do so. we have a shared responsibility for our mediterranean and the deaths we see. (the speaker agreed to reply to a question ('blue card') )
thank you for asking. well, then we can send a different signal now that we agree on a long-term sustainable migration and stand up for the right to seek asylum, and welcome migrants in a dignified way so that they can seek asylum. so it's important that all the parties in this room now negotiate so that we have a long-term sustainable migration where we stand for the equal value of people and the right to seek asylum.
mr. chairman, colleagues, illegal immigration means crossing state borders illegally. illegal crossing of state borders is a violation of the law. i am surprised that in this room, in its left wing, where we always talk about the rule of law, there are calls, there is insistence to support the violation of legality, the violation of state borders, of the law. your support for ngos that organise human trafficking means support for crimes committed with the threat to the lives of the people you are tricking into breaking the law. in your position, colleagues, here in quotes, there is a monstrous contradiction. you speak, you insist on the rule of law, and you support its violation and endanger human lives. i take it from that that for you, breaking the law and risking human lives is nothing compared to making small points, small political capital and pretending to be the protectors of the lives you endanger. it's as simple as that, and you should be ashamed of yourselves.
mr president, madam commissioner, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, 30 people died on sunday, 85 in calabria a few days ago, and this could go on until we reach the 1,300 who disappeared last year. they're not numbers, they're lives cut short. and, as president metsola stressed in her opening statement on monday, we cannot tolerate this. i wonder how many more migrants have to die before member states can meet their obligations and save people before they drown. how long do we have to wait for a mandatory rescue mechanism, in the spirit of operation eunavfor med sophia, which saved over fifty thousand lives in three years, while fighting against migrant smugglers? to do that, we must overcome the far-right narrative based on racism, hatred and fear, which are their electoral breeding ground. ladies and gentlemen of the right, if you have any respect for human dignity left, join us in cooperating with the countries of origin and transit, in fighting the mafia, in rescuing people at sea and in opening humanitarian channels and legal immigration. they got it easy.
mr. president, there is no wall worse than the wall of dehumanization. this latest tragedy demonstrates the lack of european solidarity and, above all, the shame and scandal. we are coming to the european parliament again to talk about the tragedy and the deaths, the lack of humanitarian corridors, the lack of legal and safe routes, the lack of a pact on migration and asylum, which is so necessary. moreover, how shameful it is to hear the right and the extreme right of this house - like the italian right and the extreme right or the spanish extreme right - demonizing the ngos, which are the only ones saving lives in european seas, with hate speech, racist and xenophobic speech, with speech that should not even be accepted in a parliament like this. because, gentlemen, there is no wall that can contain the desperation to save life, the desperation to escape to have a better life. and people are to be respected, not as numbers or as photographs of the dead, but as human beings, wherever they may be from.
mr president, we’re talking about 26 000 lives lost in the mediterranean, and that’s just the number of bodies recovered. god knows what the real figure is. this is not just a tragedy; it is a preventable tragedy. this humanitarian crisis has been created by neglectful and inhumane policies, member state border pushbacks and the creation of frontex who have carried out further illegal pushbacks and have been complicit in severe human rights violations. migrants desperately need safe legal pathways, not arbitrary criminalisation for risking their lives in treacherous conditions for a better future. remember, many meps in here voted for these migrants to drown at sea. has it dawned on them that maybe these migrants want to leave the jungle and go to the garden of europe? because we are doing untold damage to the jungle with our wars and our financial imperialism. wake up.
mr president, this debate is happening against the backdrop of the deaths of 74 people off the coast of italy last month. half of the dead were children, 30 are still missing. it’s against the backdrop of the ongoing criminal trials of rescue workers and innocent refugees for helping people to safety. it’s against the backdrop of the new italian regulations that tightened the noose around the civilian search and rescue operations who have stepped into the breach since the eu shamefully walked away from its legal obligations to save lives at sea. it’s against the backdrop of illegal pushbacks, violence, torture and thousands of deaths. it’s against the backdrop of gary lineker being suspended from his job as a broadcaster for expressing solidarity with refugees. my god, what a grim backdrop. so can we please get real and change the narrative? the people coming to the eu from outside its borders are an asset, not a threat. europe can wake up to that fact or stay in its savage and evermore authoritarian death trap. i hope for the first, but fear for the second.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is a rule in democracy: citizens trust us, they entrust us with a part of their destiny in the name of a principle: trust. the trust that we will serve their common interest and not their particular interests. we saw it with qatargate, our institutions are targeted by foreign powers. as we saw with dieselgate, our institutions are the target of a mixture of private and public interests. so, in case of attack, we must have appropriate responses. it does not seem appropriate to me that a commission director should be able to travel to qatar nine times at full cost while air agreements are being negotiated with the same country. it does not seem appropriate that this procedure should have been approved by him. it does not seem appropriate to me that these agreements are already in force when they have not been ratified by the member states or adopted by parliament. how can we not see an obvious conflict of interest? so i'm asking for two things, explanations. the commission must answer all our questions. the ones from the eco-school that sent the mail. the european ombudsman who took up the matter. before i even review the transparency and travel rules for its officials, i really ask that the air agreements between the european union and qatar be frozen until the whole conflict has been ruled out.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the corruption scandal in brussels continues to rage. after the socialist vice-president of the european parliament, every week new politicians from brussels are put behind bars for representing foreign interests in exchange for bribes. now the european commission has been revealed to be deeply involved in a corruption scandal. his director of transportation has accepted at least nine high-priced luxury airline tickets and who knows what else from qatar. according to the data that has been released so far, it was more than 54,000 euros, 20 million forints. all while negotiating a transport deal that benefits qatar. what is this, if not a school example of bribery? it is hypocritical and hypocritical that while this parliament and the european commission are attacking hungary with all sorts of trumped-up accusations of rule of law, the bureaucrats in brussels are swimming in systemic corruption. this completely discredits the investigation of the brussels institutions against hungary. i urge you to sweep your own house and leave hungary alone.
madam president, dear colleagues, i think it goes without saying that zero tolerance for political corruption, of course, needs to be our main goal. this is even more pronounced at a time when citizens’ trust in the eu institutions is perhaps shaken a bit by previous corruption scandals that have been revealed. under no circumstances should a situation arise in which our officials are exposed to a possibility of corruption. but having said that, it also has to be stated very clearly that we don’t have this kind of case with commission at hand at the moment. this just has to be remembered. on the other hand, commission, i think, should by example, have funds to cover the travel expenses of its officials. so then we would not be in this situation to discuss this here if this was more clearly ruled. and so, all in all, i think that we in this parliament really want to send a very clear message to the commission and a call for the commission to check their rules and procedures carefully.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, all the european institutions must act responsibly internally to ensure that they have a structure which is as transparent and credible as possible. the european ombudsman's inquiry into the flights paid for by commission officials must be thoroughly investigated so that there is no doubt about any undue pressure or wrongdoing. new, clearer and more stringent rules are needed to make the european commission more resilient as well. the rules in force must be strengthened, for example against the revolving door mechanism, which is too often circumvented today and which also affects the european parliament, as the recent scandals have shown. the promised independent european ethics body, with a mandate to oversee the institutions and agencies of the european union, should also be set up as soon as possible. this is a request that parliament has made for some time. we cannot disregard the expectations of our citizens from all the european institutions and we expect a commitment to rise to the challenge. (the speaker agrees to reply to a 'blue card' speech)
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. i have just one short question to put to the speaker, madam president. we always talk about an ethics board. this doesn't make any sense. we must simply ban this practice. because it doesn't make sense if it's ethically controlled. we must prohibit the practice of officials travelling to third countries for negotiations at the expense of third countries. it's just not allowed. you don't even have to negotiate ethics on that.
blue-card reply. – i will clarify better what i wanted to say, there are different issues. on one hand, we need to forbid what should not be happening already. at the same time, we also have a general interest – and the parliament expressed itself already many times – to have an ethics body that is able to confront with these issues. we have different opinions in this room, but let’s not mix different things. it’s a series of actions that we need to take. forbid what should be forbidden, clarify what should be clarified and also have a general ethics body. we will still debate about that, but it’s just a legitimate opinion.
madam president, commissioner mcguinness, i think the question is quid custodiet custodes: who guards the guards? and that’s why we need an ethics body. since qatargate broke, we’ve seen the consequences of lax transparency and integrity rules, waste of public money, loss of trust in the institutions and undue influence. recently, we learned from the qatari government that they paid for a dg move official’s flights while this official was overseeing negotiations on an air services agreement with qatar. was this a one—off? how can the commission maintain that this case does not represent a conflict of interest? a fortnight ago, we wrote to commissioner vălean seeking the rules, the meetings held, the rules in place and any other benefits or gifts provided to commission officials that might represent conflicts of interest. we await a reply. lobbying of the institutions by interest groups is a legitimate activity, but our work should always be guided by the public interest. we must establish an independent ethics body with real power to investigate abuses while strengthening transparency and integrity across all these institutions.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, organised crime, terrorism, migration: the monsters that lurk under every right—winger’s bed; the catch—all justification for every attack on our fundamental rights. our rights and civil liberties are being relentlessly eroded in an endemic securitarian obsession that does almost nothing to deal with the problems it’s supposed to, but does everything to make our societies more fearful and authoritarian. it doesn’t actually have to be like this. if you really want to tackle organised crime in the eu, there are ways of doing it without implementing mass surveillance, without eroding civil liberties, without fattening the pockets of the arms and security companies, and without creating a pervasive climate of fear and suspicion. first step: if you are really serious, drug decriminalisation as a first step towards full legalisation. at the same time, you’d provide safe and legal pathways for people to come to europe, work here in the regular economy. it might sound simple, but i can guarantee you it would be effective.
madam president, members of the commission and council, in order to combat organised crime, we must provide the means for justice. and i ask you: what could possibly lead a government to allow the statute of limitations and the dismissal of cases that benefit potential criminals, instead of giving the courts the means to do justice? that's what's happening in portugal as i speak. there are countless cases that are being thrown out because the socialist government insisted on a law on the collection of evidence using metadata that i knew was based on a 2006 directive that the court of justice of the european union ruled invalid, and then predictably was ruled unconstitutional in the country. there are countless other cases that are being appealed because a judge appointment law passed in 2021 that would have to be regulated by the government within 30 days, after one year and seven months, the government has done nothing. as a result, government failures are reported to have stalled the trial of a former socialist prime minister in corruption cases and there are crimes that start to run out in 2024. for his part, the director of the office that coordinates the activity of the public prosecutor's office in the area of cybercrime reported that dozens of cases of child pornography have already been destroyed, both during the investigation and at the trial stage, and the investigation of mockery or bullying made through the internet is at stake. there are thousands of crimes at risk of being overturned in portugal. i am sorry to say, but when this happens, it is the rule of law that is at stake. all this was known. all this was premeditated. i have already written to the european commission asking for its intervention. i hope that the european commission, and now the council, will be able to keep an eye on the matter and intervene if possible.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is important that we debate the fight against organised crime here in the plenary, in the european parliament, because organised crime is worse than ordinary crime. it's not just a crime here, a crime there. organized crime means networking, and organized crime means that there is still more destruction than the direct individual crime, but it is destroying trust in our society, and it is destroying people's life chances through organized crime. organized crime is not alone. it is not just local, regional, national, it is not even just european, it is global, it is linked within our societies with corruption, and it is linked from outside with what experts call hybrid warfare. the forces in the world which want to weaken europe, which want to weaken free societies, are using organised crime. that is why the global fight against organised crime, with a strong contribution from the european union, is so important.
madam president, commissioner, the eu strategy to tackle organised crime in 2021-2025 document opens with the introductory remark that, ‘hidden from public view, due to the opaque nature of its activities, organised crime is a significant threat to european citizens, business, and state institutions, as well as to the economy as a whole’. i’d also argue that hidden in plain sight to all member states of the european union is significant financial and white—collar crime perpetrated not by organised criminal gangs but by big business and unfortunately at times by state institutions. take, for example, in ireland, the bad bank nama, the national asset management agency established by the irish government in 2009 following the financial crash to manage over 70 billion worth of loans and property. now, nama, instead of managing these loans and property, sold them at fire-sale prices and engaged in corruption to the highest degree in some of their transactions. maybe the commission should tackle the financial crimes of state institutions in their next strategy document.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, human rights defenders should never be a target. their work day in and day out is integral to our democracies, and it should be understood as such. nobody should fear for their lives when they are defending human rights. too many human rights defenders have lost their lives around the world. in my own country, in ireland, we know the work that human rights defenders have done over the years when irish women could not get their rights and sexual and reproductive health and helped them to deal with many difficult and tragic situations. we are still seeing human rights defenders doing this work in europe, in places where the right to sexual and reproductive health and rights are under threat. we see places like poland, where women’s rights to abortion was taken away, and where women fleeing from ukraine who were raped cannot get the help that they need. working in these most difficult conditions, we must applaud human rights defenders. indeed, around the world, in places like colombia, kenya, argentina, we see human rights defenders working in extraordinarily tough situations. that’s why, in my current work on the directive combating violence against women and domestic violence, my co-rapporteur evin incir and i have proposed that in the context of violence against women, violence against a human rights defender should be an aggravating circumstance. today i call on the council to agree to this proposal and to send a clear message that violence against human rights defenders is unacceptable. we must see this in the directive and we have to support those who stand up for democracy. because what human rights defenders around the world are doing is, they are standing up for democracy. in many instances, of course, they are also standing up for gender inequality, they are fighting against the gender inequality that they see around the world, and we all know we have unfinished democracies and unfinished economies and human rights defenders are playing a pivotal role.
mr president, i think this is a very important discussion. i enjoyed listening to the debates, and everybody is united that we must do everything we can to have proper, legitimate adoption procedures and, above all, to give support to those who want to adopt. i believe that there are thousands of prospective parents, adoptive parents, in europe who would do so if they were given the guidance and if we got rid of some of the regulations and the long procedures. but it has to be done, of course, in accordance with the hague convention, as has been mentioned, so that children are going into good, happy homes. i have friends of mine who have adopted children from abroad. they have grown up in very happy homes and some of them are very successful. i think if we had the right campaign and particularly giving information to prospective adoptive parents across europe, we could do an awful lot for children who otherwise would finish up in very vulnerable, exploitative situations.
mr president, commissioner dalli, it is true that the debate on crossborder adoptions at global level must reflect some concerns, particularly in a context where there is an increase in crimes against children, including child trafficking and organ trafficking. but in the european union, the fact that there are substantive rights and procedural rights which differ greatly from one another in all the member states cannot give rise to any discrimination in adoption, which must be done on equal terms and without discrimination. this is a fundamental right in the european union, enshrined in articles 24 and 32 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which protect minors without discrimination, giving priority in all cases to their best interests. the commission's initiative for new european legislation on parental adoption, which is in line with the court of justice's case law on mutual recognition, based on mutual trust between member states and their respective legal systems for non-discriminatory adoption, should therefore be welcomed. i therefore believe that this is particularly relevant to particularly vulnerable situations, not only for minors but also for the adoptive parents themselves, regardless of their sexual orientation and gender.
mr president, it’s a mark of our skewed priorities that we can rush through things like spending billions of public money on arms, but something as simple and essential as dealing with the cross-border aspects of adoption sits on the backburner for years. the commission and parliament started to address this over ten years ago and nothing substantive has happened. and why is it that the rights of adopted children are never a priority? in my own country, ireland, thousands of people were illegally adopted. they had to wait decades for our government to give them even the smallest bit of information about where they came from. successive governments had to be dragged screaming and kicking to a place where they’d even begin to address this. and they still haven’t got answers. most recently, being insulted with an offer of eur 3 000 compensation for being illegally adopted and in a mother and baby home. the scale of abuse is appalling. if we talk about values, we have to address this issue.
author. – mr president. good evening, council. swedish presidency, good evening. again, commissioner dalli, good evening. dear colleagues, it is my honour to present before you this oral question on behalf of the committee. i am also honoured to chair the committee on liberties, justice and home affairs. this is an oral question on equality: anti—discrimination horizontal directive. on good reason, on good grounds, the european commission published a proposal for a directive on equal treatment of persons irrespective of religion, belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, the so-called horizontal anti—discrimination directive, in the summer 2008. so it is going to be soon 15 years now. it was 15 years ago. this european parliament adopted its position 14 years ago. that’s been a long time throughout which the european law has happened to change substantially. the lisbon treaty entered into force, along with the charter of fundamental rights, and the legislative procedure has moved from consultation on this matter to consent, which takes a positive vote of this european parliament. but, however, this long time has not allowed the council so far to reach its agreement on the matter and allow that european commission initiative to finally become effective law, enforceable law, which was the whole point of it. and that’s why we cared so much about it. it is not only a question of legislative procedure stuck in discussions, never—ending discussions, not seeming to find any sort of conclusive way out of its tunnel. we are also witnessing here an incapacity of the whole european decision—making, a law—making process to bring an eu answer to sort out a major political issue, which is discrimination on the rise all over the place in the member states and across the european union. those 15 years, our social fabric have not overcome the debate on the discrimination. on the contrary, it is been always on the rise against categories, entire categories of people. of course, women, women’s rights, we’ve talked about them today, just today, recalling that women’s rights matter in every society and, of course, in the european union. but it also goes to disabled people, lgbtiq minorities, roma, jewish communities, phobias all around the place. so highlighting the importance of not only having enforceable law, respecting the case law of the european court of justice in every member state and across the european union, that is a purpose today, with the two oral questions we are submitting to the attention of this european parliament, focusing on avenues for action at eu level to unlock this legislative work for good. that is why the european parliament, which has not received so far any position on the council on the matter, and that’s not a chance to actually fulfil its role as co-legislator with the council on this relevant matter, has this mandate of the european parliament getting started 2019 appointed a new rapporteur on the file, our colleague alice kuhnke, and along with the shadow rapporteurs on the file, we are just waiting and waiting for a resolution which is to be adopted next plenary session here in strasbourg. the next session we are adopting a resolution sending a message. so it is more than enough. it is more than time for the european union to act here. the parliament has resolved to come up with two questions. first, to the commission: does it intend to unlock the adoption of the anti-discrimination directive and finally adopt a legal framework for citizens, respecting their rights against all forms of discrimination, that has been awaiting for all too long? and the same question goes for sure to the council, to the swedish presidency. we are not talking here about procedures from consultation to consent. we are talking about full responsibility, 15 years of our inability to conclude this most relevant file really matters. actually, some member states have taken initiative following the lead of the european initiative, though inconclusive so far, have brought about legislation, anti—discriminatory legislation and horizontal anti—discrimination legislation in some member states, including mine, spain. we are waiting for the european union legal framework. so that is why we are expecting to hear the response from both the commission and the council on this most relevant pending file for nothing less than 15 years now.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, may i begin by thanking you all for the efforts to keep this issue of equal treatment high on our political agenda. the council strongly supports the principle of equal treatment, an integral part of our common values. this being so, we of course recognise the importance of the proposed horizontal equal treatment directive. it has been on the table for far too long, as mr lópez aguilar said, and we hope to advance the discussion as much as possible during our term. beginning with your question regarding the state of play, i will be straightforward and say that almost every single presidency has placed a proposal on its agenda since 2008. and the ministers of the epsco council have been informed at every step of the way, most recently in december. as you are aware, for this file, unanimity is required in the council, and the presidency analysis is that a decisive breakthrough is unlikely in the near future. i realise that this message is not the preferred one, but it is in fact the situation. coming to the timetable and the next concrete steps, the swedish presidency intends to place the proposal on the agenda for a technical-level discussion in the coming weeks and with a view to present a progress report at the epsco council in june. you also raised the issue of respect for the right of non-discrimination and equal treatment in the member states. here, i am of course very pleased to recall all the legislation at eu level that is already in place. as you know, european equality legislation is especially strong in the field of employment. member states are responsible for implementing such legislation, and it is the commission, not the council, that monitors this process. the presidency also attaches importance to the continued exchange between member states and we are organising several conferences to this end, including our own matter of gender equality, racism, antisemitism and lgbtiq equality. finally, you also raised the question of involving case-law and how it must be implemented by the member states and the eu. here, it is important to bear in mind that it is the commission who is monitoring the implementation of eu law. thank you for this opportunity to address this subject and thank you for your attention. i am looking forward to the debate.
member of the commission. – mr president, minister, honourable members. thank you for giving me this opportunity to address this chamber on the important topic of the proposal for an equal treatment directive. the adoption of the 2008 proposal for an equal treatment directive remains a priority for the commission. the proposal is among the priority legislative files requiring swift action in the commission’s 2023 work programme. the proposed directive aims to fill an important gap in the eu’s non-discrimination legislation by extending protection against discrimination on the basis of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation to the fields of social protection, education and access to goods and services, including housing. under article 19 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the proposal requires unanimity in order to be adopted in the council. as you are well aware, it has therefore been blocked in the council since the very beginning. the commission thanks the previous presidencies of the council of the eu in charge of the file that have, time and again, relaunched work in the council to make progress on this file. in particular, we welcome that certain progress could be achieved under the portuguese and more recently under the czech presidencies. we also welcome the support of the swedish presidency, which would allow us to make progress in case such an opportunity arises. throughout the council negotiations, the commission has always actively supported the council presidencies and the member states in finding possible ways to advance the file. this includes concrete support in technical and legal questions, and we will continue to offer our support in the future. let me recall that, overall, the commission is engaged in achieving a union of equality. as commissioner for equality, i have been entrusted by president von der leyen with strengthening europe’s commitment to inclusion and equality and with actively raising awareness and promoting equality across the union. in order to mainstream equality in all policy areas, we have been putting in place mechanisms, policies and actions that challenge structural discrimination and stereotypes that are often present in our societies. the anti-racism action plan, the gender equality strategy, the eu roma strategic framework for equality, the strategy for the rights of persons with disabilities and the lgbtiq equality strategy have all been put forward during the mandate of this commission, with the aim to build a union of equality. they all stress the importance of preventing and tackling discrimination, enforcing eu law and principles in this field, and improving data collection. in december, the european commission proposed legislative initiatives on binding standards for equality bodies to strengthen the role, independence and resources of these bodies. we also want to provide equality bodies with strong powers to effectively assist victims of discrimination and to help enforce anti-discrimination rules on the grounds of age, religion or belief, disability and sexual orientation in employment. finally, as the guardian of the treaties, the commission makes sure that, when implementing eu law and eu—funded projects, the principle of non—discrimination is fully respected. coming back to the proposal for an equal treatment directive, its adoption lies in the hands of the 27 member states and the council. when it comes to concrete options to unblock the negotiations in the council, the commission has explored several, including enhanced cooperation and the general bridging clause – the so-called passerelle clause in article 48 of the treaty on european union. however, none of none of these alternative solutions appear to be a realistic option. previous discussions in council have also confirmed this. article 19 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union remains the sole possible legal base to achieve the aim of prohibiting discrimination on the various grounds in the four fields mentioned in the commission’s proposal across the union. still, we must not give up in the face of the obviously challenging situation. we owe it to all those citizens who are discriminated against in the fields of social protection, education and access to goods and services. i reiterate the commission’s commitment to support the council negotiations in every way possible. i also call on all member states for their support. this fight is key to achieving a union of equality, and it requires political will, determination and a constructive spirit.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, article 14 of our european convention on human rights specifically outlines our right to not face discrimination, and yet, many members of our society face discrimination every single day. in ireland, people from minority backgrounds like our travelling community, our lgbti+ community are much more likely to face and experience discrimination in their everyday lives. while we can continue to implement laws gradually, creating separate rules for different grounds of discrimination creates significant barriers for people. a single directive would not only be easier to implement, but it would also ensure that our citizens can clearly understand their rights. if we cannot provide our citizens with a comprehensive framework which protects our citizens against discrimination, how can we ever make progress? commissioner, colleagues, i put to you: equality and discrimination are two sides of the same coin. often in this chamber, late at night, we discuss the importance of equality, of fundamental rights, of our european values, and we cannot allow our member states to continuously put a halt on progress. we’ve three presidencies left under this mandate, three chances for eu leaders to push to unblock this directive. there has been discussion amongst member states, as already shared, about separating parts of this directive, as they believe some parts will be easier to introduce than others. i call this utter nonsense. all 500 million citizens deserve equality today. all european citizens deserve the same standing and respect within our eu. we need to move. we need to unblock this directive. it is our citizens who are at risk if we don’t get this right. may i use the last ten seconds to acknowledge commissioner dalli and her team for continuously calling for this directive to be unblocked, one of the rare few commissioners to do so.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, madam commissioner, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, my message today is to our member states. if patience is to be considered a virtue, it is, in the context of the horizontal anti-discrimination directive, despicable. fifteen years of blockade, what a scandal! yet visible and audible, the discrimination faced by too many of our fellow citizens does not seem to frighten the blocking governments. fifteen years of inactivity, of inaction by some national representatives, is the result of a lack of political courage. although there have been laws on discrimination in the labour market in the past, it is important to remember that we spend only eight hours a day at our workplace. protection against discrimination must be guaranteed 24 hours a day, in the private sphere as well as in the workplace. it is therefore time to sweep up our doorstep and to make the values of equality a reality within our union. to this end, we socialists and democrats support commissioner dalli in her efforts to find a solution to adopt a progressive text prohibiting all forms of discrimination in the various spheres of the private life of all those living in our european union. dear colleagues, to all the far-right populist religious extremists who call us who fight discrimination, who defend women's rights, trans rights, lgbt rights, minority rights ideologists, i just want to remind that they are the ideologists. we are just people who defend fundamental rights, and the far-right ultra-conservative politicians, the ideologists, they are against the union of equality, a union of equality which commission president von der leyen calls for, where helena dalli, the commissioner for equality, works so hard. thank you for having presented all this equality strategy. thank you for defending the concept of intersectional discrimination; by the way, intersectional discrimination is a term which is banned from council language, and this is a shame and this can no longer go on like this. so i call on the swedish presidency: please do your best to work on this on this important subject, because fighting for equality, equal treatment is not giving more rights to one or the other, it's just giving the same rights to everyone. and this is what we need in our european union.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, madam commissioner, madam minister, we’ve been waiting for almost 15 years. i fear godot is going to get here before the directive does. i hear the council strongly supports the principle of equal treatment. well, apparently not. i know that sweden does, so i’m not looking at you. but clearly the council does not, because it’s all a matter of priorities. it says, ‘oh, difficult, difficult. unanimity. we can’t overcome this.’ but the council has decided in recent years on the purchase of vaccines, weapons, the issuance of eurobonds, a hundreds-of-billions recovery fund. but it cannot decide on something as basic as equal treatment of all eu citizens. it’s in the treaties. friends, how are we going to unblock the file in the european council? well, maybe we should play hardball. let’s start by freezing the budget for the european council altogether. (laughter in the chamber.) this is not funny. that will get them going, i assure you. two more things; additional proposals. let’s finally follow the renew proposal for a council formation for equality. it cannot be that difficult. if there are ministers for equality, we should have a council formation. and finally, i call on all member states to show their colours and join the court case against hungary in defence of lgbti rights.
mr president, the european union is a great project guaranteeing equality for nations and for citizens. but there’s one thing to guarantee it in law, it’s another thing to put it into practice. and this is the nub of the problem. too many groups in the european union, be they people with disabilities, minority groups because of sexual orientation, religious beliefs, travellers, as my colleague maria walsh mentioned, in my own country, feel that they’re being discriminated against, and it’s time to stop it. and i compliment the swedish presidency for trying to move this forward, unblocking something that has been blocked since 2008. sweden is a modern, progressive country, and hopefully they can make progress on this. and finally, i would say, as we look to the east, with putin showing total disregard for human life in ukraine, we should move in the opposite direction and ensure absolute equality, both in law and in practice, for all our people in the european union. that would be a great thing to do.
mr president, the protection of eu citizens against discrimination is inadequate and for far too long we’ve failed to improve the discrimination directive. i’m glad that we’ve just had the first un international day against islamophobia, but sorry that we’ve had to have it because of the appalling rise of crimes against muslims in our society. the institutional suspicion which has increased since 9/11 and the so-called war on terror, the negative profiling, the stereotyping, make life in europe very dangerous for muslims and the actions that some members of our parliaments take makes that even more. in the presence of the swedish presidency, we have to say that burning and disrespecting the koran is absolutely unacceptable. it is a hate crime and passing it off as just freedom of expression, i’m sorry, is just not good enough. we have to put our actions where our words are and stamp out discrimination against muslims in our society.
mr president, i would like to say firstly, i am surprised that the epp did not have a speaker on the cambodian discussion. as rapporteur for asean, i met the opposition, sam rainsy, and the delegation today and i would have been willing to speak. apropos this topic, lukashenko’s regime in belarus has continued its repression against the belarusian people, with civil society representatives, human rights defenders, journalists and opposition activists being persecuted for purely political reasons. criminal persecution and draconian laws remain one of the most severe and widespread forms of repression in lukashenko’s totalitarian state. more than 40 000 belarusians are estimated to have been detained while protesting against this tyrannical regime, while human rights defenders have documented hundreds of cases of torture and ill treatment, with several people still missing and others having been found dead and, unfortunately, thousands having fled the country. the show trial of journalist andrzej poczobut and the manufactured charges against nobel peace prize laureate ales bialiatski are an absolute abomination. this is terrible and we have to condemn it.
mr president, i naturally supported this motion for a resolution. the repression to which andrzej poczobut and ales bjaljacký are subjected is unacceptable. but of course, these are not the only two cases. that's the vast majority of cases that we've met and talked about here in the last few months. belarus has become a totalitarian state, trampling on every conceivable human right, and it is important to say that the belarusian president has undoubtedly become a servant of the russian bear and that he can only fly to china or iran. i think we need to further tighten sanctions, help the belarusian opposition and be prepared for regime change, because i am convinced that the belarusian people will not allow this totalitarian practice to be imposed on them and that human rights and democracy will soon prevail in belarus.
the president shall make a proposal to the state council to the extent that the national law is appropriate to the rate of increase in the budget. the commission shall propose to the member states the use of the right to vote in the european parliament to amend their income schemes so that they are more effective, to help people reach an appropriate level of income and to help people to participate in the labour market and to help those who are unable to work. the national assessment shall be carried out by a national authority, which shall make a proposal for a national measure to be taken by the member state in comparison with the national measure. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the training, the provision of emergency services and the employment market activities in the area of employment. the disability must be offered in the member state in which the person is protected.
mr president, i voted in favour of this text because of the urgent need to raise the national minimum income in the eu member states in order to reduce the number of people at risk of poverty and social inclusion. now, we know that in 2021, 95.4 million people in the eu, 21% of the population, were at risk of poverty and social exclusion. so, grand and all as this measure is, and it is, unless we go much further than this, the problems will not be sorted out. our workers are in a situation of constant precariousness; the energy crisis, deindustrialisation, unemployment, inflation are all increasing the numbers of people who are increasingly insecure. the share of housing costs in the disposable income of people at risk of poverty is 38%. in ireland in the last quarter last year, average rents were eur 1 733 per month. in france, the number of people achieving food aid has tripled. the social emergency is here, it’s time to wake up.
a uachtaráin, this report for economic policy coordination outlines the european parliament’s contribution to the annual european semester cycle, very supportive. the report describes the economic risks member states are facing and highlights the necessary steps to alleviate these challenges. the report recognises the risks of a high debt-to-gdp ratio in member states, and that the recent increase in interest rates makes debt servicing an ongoing and heightened challenge. parliament’s report concurs with the commission’s recommendations on the need for support measures to be targeted, and that prudent medium-term fiscal positions must be pursued. the adopted report highlights the need to have proper enforcement of fiscal rules and a strong role for independent fiscal institutions. in essence, the report reiterates that robust economic growth, sound fiscal policies and a healthy balance between government revenues and expenditure are necessary to reduce legacy debt and make debt sustainable in the long run.
mr president, i did not support this report and i would like to explain why. i do not at all dispute the importance of this coordination of economic policies taking place naturally. this policy has also had its successes. in the time of the covid-19 pandemic, it certainly brought security to many employees. i also agree that this policy must address social problems, social exclusion, poverty, that's for sure. but on a number of points, i think we disagree on the concepts, which also undermines the competitiveness of the european union and its member states. it is also, no doubt, a considerable amount of legislation, misdirected support even for employers, for our businesses and it is a big bureaucracy. so i was missing a certain balance in the report and for these reasons i did not support it.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report. i'm very sorry that brexit happened. i think the british themselves have already seen that many of their politicians have lied to them, including those who sat in this parliament. however, i think it's important to turn the page, that it's very important to appreciate the deal that we finally made between the uk and the eu, and that we need to build a new alliance. i am satisfied with the implementation of the agreement and i think that for these reasons it is good to support this report in the european parliament and hope that in the near future or in the future we will find a lot in common and be very close partners, that is to say on both sides of the channel, both in the uk and in the european union. we have a lot of challenges ahead of us that are quite obvious, and i think this alliance could be appreciated by citizens on both sides.
mr president, (off-mic/sound) ... creating a sustainable peace settlement as a reliable partner. it frames russia as an unreliable partner to armenia and suggests moving closer to euro-atlantic players. this is a simplistic reading of the situation. the agreement between armenia and russia has done most to deter nato member turkey from attacking armenia, and the us and europe seems structurally incapable of developing a coherent strategy for the caucasus. caution would seem to be the most appropriate course but instead, we have a former secretary-general of nato in armenia this week setting out his vision for armenia’s future. whose interest is this man representing i wonder? the eu and us are playing games here, trying to push countries in different directions and exploiting tensions created by the war in ukraine. we are increasing the chances of renewed ethnic conflict with zero regard for the people. the eu is not an honest broker here.
mr president, the differing tones in the and azerbaijan texts are striking. we need to coax the fledgling democracy armenia away from russia and our close partners, iran. and we can’t condemn azerbaijan enough for their military aggression, for persecution of political activists and civil society and for all kinds of human rights violations. yet, azerbaijan, the dictatorship and the aggressor, is our close partner. we just signed an mou with them to double imports of their natural gas to at least 20 billion cubic metres a year by 2027. they are great pals with our like-minded partners, israel, who kill palestinians on a daily basis. azerbaijan are israel’s largest oil supplier, and israel sells to them 70% of the weapons they like to use against armenians. our american partners see them as a useful tool in the battle against iran – another reason for the israeli arms sales. as with armenia, not everything fits nicely into the larger narrative crafted in brussels and washington. not only can we not form a coherent strategy in the area, and the eu will do well to watch its step in the caucasus.
mr president, this report on azerbaijan is a really interesting read. in it, we’ve alleged war crimes with torture and mutilation, the persecution of political dissidents, lack of women’s rights, racist hate speech, child labour, illicit spying on journalists and politicians, with the grotesquely evil trophy park in baku; we’ve enforced disappearances, desecration of corpses, political repression, police brutality, intimidation, death threats and assassination against the opponents of the azerbaijani government; lack of media freedom, violation of human rights, not to mention no workers’ rights – because they don’t have any. and after all of that, after all the squares of this shameless authoritarian bingo card have been ticked off, the eu’s oil and gas deal with azerbaijan is signed in the same breath as, ‘we can’t do business with the authoritarian russia. we’ll do it with these valiant defenders of democracy and human rights.’ if you want a clue about why nobody outside here takes this place seriously, well, this report is a very good place to start.
mr president, over a million europeans are telling us to put small farmers first, so we have a duty to listen to the citizens' voice. they tell us to prioritize healthy food, eliminate harmful pesticides, restore biodiversity, make sure we put clean food on the table that doesn't make our kids sick. romania is the second country in the union in number of hives. we export 9 000 tonnes of honey every year to all member states and all over the world. romania still has natural grasslands, but we don't protect them very well, and we don't help those who want to preserve them for future generations. just like we don't stop illegal logging of our forests and poaching of bears or sturgeons. this citizens' initiative is not just about bees, it's about us and how we want to live at home, in romania and in europe. we have a duty to allocate more money to organic farming, to those who respect healthy land and traditions, to clean air, water and soil.
mr president, dear colleagues, i hope you can hear the noise outside, the growing drumbeats and the marching children. our own children are marching for climate action while we sit here and debate. over 1 million people have signed this petition calling for us to protect us from ourselves, from the collapse of nature. in ireland alone, where we have lost over half of our native plants, over 10 000 irish people have signed this petition. of all the crises, this is the one where we already have the solutions: less pesticides, less fertilizers, more room for nature. yet, the largest group in this chamber has called for a complete moratorium on green legislation. our children are calling for action, and we won't allow you to stand in our way.
mr president, the world bank and imf are colonial institutions. they belong to a bygone era designed to make rich countries richer by running up colossal debts on poor countries. we know this because since the inception of these financial institutions, we’ve had rising absolute inequality. in fact, since 1960, global inequality has tripled. so much for the world’s largest development bank. these deeply undemocratic institutions need to be either abolished or completely reimagined if they are to be in any way helpful for tackling the combination of crises that we’re facing in this century. we have a spiralling climate crisis, and despite all our talk, we have not come to terms with the gravity of it all. by 2050, it is reckoned that we will have 1.2 billion climate refugees. what are we going to do? how are poor countries going to rebuild homes and communities? how can this be done with the shackles of debt, the ball and chain of conditionality? we need to rewire the whole international financial system. more debt is more colonialism.
mr president, far from helping, the imf and the world bank are imperialist institutions for the legalised theft of resources, where 85% of the world’s population are left with the minority say while the rich countries exercise a veto. and i think there is a really sick irony in the fact that the world bank provides around 1.7 billion to the oil and gas sector, while at the same time reaping back repayments on the indebted poor, the very people suffering from the climate crisis in the first place. we see now the revolving door where donald trump’s world bank president appointee steps out, joe biden steps in and the ownership of this world bank and imf by the us continuesthe very countries that are failing to pay for even the most meagre climate pledge. they failed to meet the 100 billion goal for 2020, but we actually need six times that finance in order to avoid the most dangerous climate change. so where is that money going to come from? we could have international financial institutions that work for people and the climate, that are oriented by human needs. we need to totally dismantle bretton woods and make something more democratic.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, your eyes are eloquent and say a lot. ladies and gentlemen, today we are putting on a big helmet for the great debates we are having here in the european parliament. maybe that's why there are about 19 of us in the room, 19 of us with me in the stands and the chairman behind me. maybe the fact that there's three times as many young people in the gallery is pretty indicative of what we're doing right now. what i want to draw your attention to, however, is this. we're talking about some nice things here, like animal welfare and stuff. but behind all of this is regulations, and regulations, and regulations that make it difficult for producers and farmers, make it difficult for people who run some real business, make something real and try to sell it. i wonder, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i see that you at least have earphones, so you are listening to the translation, when was the last time the colleagues who are speaking on the subject went to the store to buy milk, butter, eggs, chicken, such things, those who do not eat anything from soy and something from plastic. because of these regulations, colleagues, in the netherlands, 3,000 farms are being closed. 3,000 farms are closing down because of their climate footprint. the netherlands is the second largest net exporter of agricultural products in the world, net of all. holland, you know how big it is, and the united states, how big. what does that tell you? it tells us that the regulations we deal with here in the european parliament destroy business, destroy entrepreneurship, introduce crazy regulations, make the lives of producers difficult because someone has decided that they will talk about green deals, carbon footprint and other such things that have nothing to do with living life. i agree, if this was a separate thing, there was some kind of a separate paradise for the people who use soy, and they had let the rest of the people live, produce, work, sell normally. i see a colleague who is very amused by what i say, but i hope yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, you, colleague. i'm so happy to see you. you can ask me the question "blue card", press the button there and ask a question with a blue card if you want. but this whole thing is ridiculous. look at how many people are in the gallery and how many of us are in the room. what does that tell you? that tells me we're wasting these people's time here. there's inflation out there, there's war, there's real problems. we're wasting their time here.
the commissioner has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture, fisheries and rural development. that's crazy, you know. we keep billions of animals in europe, crammed into stables, lorries, ships, laboratories, zoos, dolphinariums, circuses, arenas, shops, markets and our homes. but the lives of animals in the countryside, in the city, in our forests, in the oceans and seas are also under increasing pressure. why, then, are the rights and welfare of these animals still not recognized? the time is now. at a time when the whole animal welfare legislation is being thrown into disarray, we are demanding a european commissioner for animal welfare to put an end once and for all to the inconsistent policies of the various european commissioners and the interference of the committee on agriculture, which is directly dictated by the agricultural industry. we are on the verge of major changes in the way we treat animals and i look forward, along with millions of citizens, to the new ambitious proposals for new animal welfare legislation later this year, with, of course, a ban on keeping animals in cages by 2027 and a ban on the production and sale of fur in europe. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished. (the president declared the motion for a resolution adopted)
blue-card speech. – dear colleague, are you seriously proposing to have a commissioner for the welfare of animals? well, if we have a commissioner for animals, do we need to have one for the bees, for the goats, for the sheep? one commissioner for every animal in this way.
blue card reply. yes, thank you for asking. no, of course not. bees are animals, too. sheep are animals. if we have one animal welfare commissioner, he can take care of all those animals that are under pressure from the current farming system. we would like to see the current food system revised to be more plant-based, more sustainable and better for animal welfare. one commissioner can solve all these problems.
mr president, the conditions for animals in the european union, that is to say, farm animals, are not optimal and in some cases are indeed sad. for example, i personally consider cage-breeding of laying hens to be a form of abuse. it's an unsustainable condition, and that's why citizens, consumers who are aware of it, have called for an end to cage farming. the high number of people mentioned here, over 1 400 000 eu citizens, has been added to the challenge. the european parliament has responded to it and we support these demands. you yourself mentioned that the european commission is counting on new legislation. we've called for it to be on the table by the end of 2023. and the cage ban for livestock should apply from 2027. it is not just about animals, but also about a fair internal market. the point is that animals are imported from third countries and are raised to different standards. and to do that, we also need financial investment to support our farmers.
mr president, i welcome the comments of the commissioner and the reviews that are being carried out by the commission into the issue of animal welfare in the area of housing, transport and slaughter. of course, we have regulations already, but we have simply failed to ensure that they were enforced across member states, so any regulations that we bring forward in terms of the review must have member state enforcement and sanctions against member states who fail to enforce. there’s no doubt the european union has high standards, global standards, and i certainly believe that, in terms of trade discussions, negotiations across the globe, that the issue of animal welfare and globalized standards have to be taken into account when we are formalising trade deals. citizens and consumers demand the highest welfare standards. it is in the interests of farmers and primary producers to ensure that they are producing food with the highest standards available to them. we also have to take into account food security, we have to take into account how we produce our food, the local traditions, but equally and importantly, we have an obligation. animals are sentient beings recognised by the treaties, and we must ensure that we have standards appropriate to our welfare. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
blue-card reply. – i sat on that committee of inquiry on the protection of animals during transport and we have made our report and our recommendations. i believe that we can improve animal welfare standards during transport. technologies are there, and they should be part of that process. but, overall, enforcement is where we need to take it to ensure that animals are protected during transport. but transport is a critical component in the farming of animals as well.
a uachtaráin, as george bernard shaw said, "the worst sin towards our fellow creatures is not to hate them, but to be indifferent to them: that's the essence of inhumanity". i'll never be able to live without you in a year, and i'm afraid that if you don't, you'll be able to live for a few days, not a month, son. we cannot rely on the rules that we have at the moment, but we will continue to work on the rules that we have left in the european union. it is a shame that only six per cent of the eight million people allowed into the european union are able to afford transport. in the context of a review to be carried out this year of legislation relating to the law of the sea, the full cost of the sea should be borne by the shipowners, and the end of the year should be taken into account. and, in general, caithfimid laghdú suntasach to dhéanamh ar an méid feola a ithimid ar mhaithe leis an aeráid agus ar mhaithe leis na hainmhithe. and, in general, caithfimid laghdú suntasach to dhéanamh ar an méid feola a ithimid ar mhaithe leis an aeráid agus ar mhaithe leis na hainmhithe. and, in general, caithfimid laghdú suntasach to dhéanamh ar an méid feola a ithimid ar mhaithe leis an aeráid agus ar mhaithe laws na hainmhithe. and, in general, caithfimid laghdú suntasach to dhéanamh ar an amount feola a ithimid ar mhaithe laws an aeráid agus ar mhaithe laws na hainmhithe.
mr president, i am convinced that the living conditions of animals in europe are not good. this is reality. we can talk about standards, but the reality is that many animals in europe suffer in farms, and we should be enforcing at least two of the basic things that have been discussed here. cage-farming is prohibited. it's something that's been mentioned and it would help tremendously. and then the restrictions on the transport of live animals. we're constantly debating that here. i myself have witnessed nine years of debate on the restriction of animal transport and we are still unable to agree on a time limit of four hours. this is a big problem. and if we can get at least those two steps to pass, we'll make a huge step forward for animal rights. i also support the establishment of a commissioner to have this agenda. commissioner, we are now in prague, in the czech republic, where i am a municipal politician, we have established a councillor who is in charge of animal rights, animal welfare in prague. so let's do it for the whole european union, let's have one person in charge of this.
mr president, animal welfare is an issue that cuts across many aspects of agriculture, sustainability and general public health. so, welfare standards are key to the ‘farm to fork’ strategy and ultimately the green deal. animal welfare contributes to the improvement of animal health and therefore food quality in europe. the current legislation is simply not fit for purpose and is also not being implemented properly. i too believe that having a department of the commission responsible for animal welfare would certainly elevate the importance of the issue. small farmers competing in highly competitive global markets against big agri industry, under pressure to decrease costs, need a better incentive to comply with better animal welfare practices. better rural development programmes would improve farm animal welfare on this front. any narrow-based policy won’t fix the implementation problems and will actually increase the vulnerability of farmers. we do need a much more holistic approach in general to the whole area.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you, colleagues, for what has been a very lively debate, as i had anticipated. i think your commitment to animal welfare is well known in this house. in relation to who looks after animal welfare, i really want to assure members that this issue of animal welfare is at the very heart of the work of my colleague stella kyriakides within this commission. because the issues before us on animal welfare are very varied. colleagues alluded to a need for more enforcement of existing legislation, and indeed new legislation will also be required as the demands of society intensify. at the same time, as we move forward with new proposals, we know that upgrading eu animal welfare rules will require investment by farmers and others in the food supply chain. so, for that reason, we have to be balanced and have sufficient transition periods. we also need to provide assistance to farmers from existing eu financial instruments, and i want to assure the house that the commission, across its different services, is working hard to make the upcoming legislative proposals as ambitious and realistic as possible. because, as was mentioned, we do need holistic legislation implemented and supported by all stakeholders. as part of this, we are performing a thorough impact assessment of the policy options before any decision is made. hopefully, this will also help the european parliament and the council reach a well-founded agreement. once adopted, the new legislation will cement the european union’s role as a world leader in animal welfare. when it is applied, the rules will improve the lives of billions of animals in the european union and elsewhere. after that, it is up to us together to make sure that eu rules for animal welfare remain fit for the future. as i come from a farming background, i think it is also right that we acknowledge those farmers who do a really good job caring for their animals. those farmers who would have been up during the night lambing and looking after calves. and i think this house acknowledges the role of those farmers who abide by and are committed to animal welfare. mr president, if i am not breaking a rule, i join seán kelly in wishing all of you a happy saint patrick’s day. i am wearing the green, as you can see. very subtle. please join in the irish celebrations on what is always a most joyous day. and thank you for this excellent debate.
the debate is closed.
the next item on the agenda is the explanations of vote.
mr president, i abstained on this report because while there was much good in it, the magnitsky act and other measures, i do not agree with. if we want to defend human rights defenders, we have to be honest. and i want to give an example to back up my position. last night in here, we had a discussion on the reports of hundreds of girls suffering respiratory problems and temporary paralysis in schools across iran, which of course is deeply concerning. targeting children for any reason is unimaginable and inexcusable. i am very glad that the government of iran has initiated an investigation. i expect that to be transparent. but every time we take up these issues, we should be mindful of the impact on human rights defenders and the people we claim that we are defending, because by constantly seizing on every development in iran to press for a regime change, we are hurting the people we say we stand by. we are trying to intervene in a negative way in that sense. i find it a bit of a cheek for people in here to feign concern about women and girls in iran when they are dying as a result of the sanctions that we are imposing on them.
i have now been told that mr wallace had technical difficulties registering for explanations of vote, which i cannot believe. but since the commissioner wished us such a happy st patrick's day, i should like to give the floor to my irish colleague.
mr president, first of all, thank you very much for your kindness and generosity for the time of the year that’s in it. let me actually confirm that technologically, i am absolutely a disaster. i can barely turn the computer on. but anyway, i voted for this human rights issue because i think it is really important. but i also think it is really important that we have a balanced approach to it. during the debate yesterday, as my colleague said, there was an awful lot of focus on iran. listen, if i was in iran today, i too would be on the streets protesting, looking for separation of church and state. but i would also be on the streets of iran protesting about foreign interference. i mean, the iranians, there is a huge issue over this poisoning thing. and this is a very serious issue. but i mean, from what we can see, the authorities are dealing with it in a professional manner and they are concerned about the human rights of their own citizens, too. and definitely, if we were more concerned about the human rights of the iranians, we would stop sanctioning them because we are killing women and children with our sanctions in iran. and the human rights of the iranians should count for more to us.
mr president, a water quality review is presently being carried out in ireland in terms of the nitrates directive and the assessment of the derogation whether or not we are reaching our aims under the water quality framework. of course, in assessing water quality, we also have to take into account a period of time that will be required to allow the mitigating circumstances that have been put in place over the last number of years to take effect. but, also, if we do unwind the derogation in ireland, it will have a profound impact on farming and on land use. in other words, dairy farmers will have to lower their stocking density, which means they will require more land for their farming activities, which means there will be a continual displacement across the agricultural land use spectrum: dairy farmers replacing tillage farmers, tillage farmers replacing beef and suckler farmers, and sheep farmers being completely displaced. so when we are assessing the water quality framework, the impact of the derogation, we must also take into account the impact it will have on farming practices throughout ireland, to ensure that if we do need to change, it must be done in a way that does not have a major impact on how family farms farm in ireland. (just to be open and transparent, i must declare that my family are dairy farmers, in the interest of transparency.)
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu wants to regulate everything in our lives in the name of climate - from consumption to transport, buildings and travel - which, according to the commission itself, has only a small impact on global average temperatures, while hitting hard at our prosperity and people's freedom. is that really how climate policy has to be? no, not at all. the eu must change its resistance to free markets and technological development. it is not helping the climate if europe isolates itself and shifts its emissions to other parts of the world. unfortunately, the eu is often an obstacle to nuclear power and carbon reductions globally, even though it is cheaper and more efficient for the climate. instead of promoting freedom and prosperity, many seem to believe that the climate is being improved by making europe's citizens suffer, which is an incredibly costly mistake.
mr president, we have just passed the 20th anniversary of the iraq war, a war where over a million people died, where people still grapple with the after-effects of the use of depleted uranium, where nobody has been held to account for a country torn apart and a region plunged into chaos. and we have a responsibility to look back and ask: how did it all happen? well, it happened because the people in power told us over and over things they knew were not true. it happened because a compliant media failed to ask the questions and parroted those lies day after day, beating the drum for a war of aggression dressed up as a battle of democracy against authoritarianism. so now, as another country is torn apart, another region turned into chaos, at this uniquely dangerous phase in world history, we see the same people again baying for blood — not their own of course — seizing the moral high ground, condemning peace as appeasement, bellowing that the only option is escalation. well, you really have to ask yourself the question: why in god’s name would we believe these liars? now we need peace and we need it now.
mr president, freedom of information, pluralism and the independence of the media are fundamental components of the right to freedom of expression and play a fundamental role in a democratic and diverse society in europe. that's what public media should be. unlike what happens in galician public television and radio, which lack information pluralism, they manipulate and discriminate against professionals. in my country, they work like the propaganda of a party: the people's party. for five years, workers have been denouncing abuses and reprisals. the european parliament therefore sends its full support for their struggle and dignity. i also know that this video will never be shown on galician public television.
president, the american inflation reduction act is a contradiction in terms. the law encourages reckless government spending and raises trade barriers. contrary to what the name implies, it will keep inflation high. the eu is now coming up with countermeasures. the commission has thus considerably relaxed eu state aid rules: the industrial plan for the green deal. as has often been the case with the commission, von der leyen: big words with a big price tag, because this is paid for by the people back home. in recent years, our policymakers have locked down the economy and given everyone free money. that's why we have high inflation. instead of fighting inflation, the commission is blowing green bubbles. mr president, there is no such thing as free money. if the european commission continues to spend recklessly, it is taking a gamble which always ends in tears.
mr president, immigration is a very central issue. you are so aware of this that you have prepared in 2020 a new pact on immigration and asylum. what is striking is that when you are deciding on the demographic future of europe, you are doing it behind the scenes, in secret. why don't you want a big debate on immigration? why do you not encourage referenda in the member states? why don't you listen to the polls? and why do you act in such a covert manner? you know very well that since 2020, despite your conferences, despite the creation of complicit associations, the recruitment of self-proclaimed experts, promotional trips and, let's say, political and financial pressures, you have encountered fierce resistance, because this disastrous pact goes against the will of the people. during our official missions to belgium, france, the netherlands, greece, everywhere, we have been able to see the gap between your ideological policy and the reality on the ground. more and more member states are openly hostile to your policy of submerging our european continent. it is time to listen to them and to listen to the people.
mr president, commissioner, the move against tiktok has more to do with a reckless new cold war posturing and driving a wedge between the eu and china than anything to do with safeguarding user data. it’s true that tiktok has the capacity to control content and collect and store its users’ personal data. this is also true of google, facebook, twitter and others. there are countless ways for governments to target people. if we really cared about this why did the commission do nothing to address the abuses revealed by the prism programme revelations? why don’t we have a set of rules that adequately protect people in the eu? governments that restrict access to western platforms are accused of being authoritarian, yet now we’re banning platforms based on pure suspicion and speculation. we have regulations for a reason. they should be applied to all platforms in a rational manner. we can engage with companies to address concerns. instead, we’re busy making ourselves look unreasonable, confrontational and almost as hysterical as the americans.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, good morning, colleagues, commissioner, what a day. today, the gender pay gap in the eu stands at just under 13 % – 12.7 % – but this directive is going to change that. this pay gap remains unexplained for many and cannot be linked to the individual worker, education or working time. and we need this directive, as greater levels of pay transparency will uncover unjustified gender-based differences and empower the victims – many victims – of pay discrimination to seek redress. our workers need the tools to compare salaries and ensure that they are paid equally for the work that they do, and this directive is that tool. with ireland celebrating its 50th anniversary as a member of the eu, we can reflect on the leading role the eu has played in striving for gender equality. we must not forget that it was the eu law when we signed in 1973 which forced ireland to abolish the marriage bar – an unjust piece of legislation which pushed thousands of irish women out of the workforce based solely on their marriage status. today, that struggle for gender equality reaches another milestone. it’s time we finally deliver on the promises of equal pay – a founding principle of the european union since the 1957 treaty of rome. we, as a european parliament, must legislate for income equality and eradicate the gender pay gap, once and for all. ladies watching and sitting in the chamber, particularly those up here in the gallery: this today does not have to be an exception; it has to be the norm. in about a year’s time, we will go to the polls at european level, and many countries, irish country myself, and many european countries will ask people to put their names forward for local elections. this is the time to see the 50 % in this chamber and across the european union. let this not be the exception. let this be the norm.
mr president, commissioner dalli, colleagues, i’d like to thank all the meps who’ve worked so cooperatively on this file to ensure we’re at this moment in time here today. for the epp, maria walsh and sirpa pietikäinen have put in a huge amount of work, as i know everybody has. this is a fundamental principle of our democracy: equal pay for equal work. this has been one of our guiding principles in gender equality since the foundation of our union, yet we’ve never realised it in reality. we’ve been behind, but today we are on the cusp of great historical change. this legislation to close – to finally close – the gender pay gap will be a game changer. the 12.6 % pay gap that still exists, not to mention the 39 % pension gap, hopefully will be reduced and will be no more in the time ahead. this directive will promote gender pay transparency across europe, meaning it is good for women, but it is also very, very good for business. there is a huge loss to our economies from the lack of gender equality and we have to focus on this more and more. by disclosing the gender pay gap at company level, we can get to the root of the problem. we can see exactly what’s going on. and already we’ve seen changes, when you have this transparency, and they’re very surprising some of the data that’s emerging, let me say, from companies you wouldn’t expect to see it from. so it’s very important. we have waited far too long for this. today, we are showing that we are standing for the right for women to be treated equally in europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment tabled by renew is a clear attempt to attack the italian government, not because it breaks the law but because, by enforcing it, it prevents the use of practices such as surrogacy. now, since i know that the left, the lgbt associations, which now represent the same thing, say that what i say is not true and, therefore, that this house is in agreement that the hired uterus is an abomination, we think it is useful to clear the field of all doubt and to make it clear that we are against this practice. we therefore table the following amendment, which, needless to say, we expect to be adopted without any problems, otherwise the suspicions would be confirmed that behind the battle for the recognition of children of same-sex couples there is an attempt to impose from above on all member states the de facto legalisation of the surrogacy system. the text we are asking for is very simple and is as follows: parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the union's financial instruments are used effectively. it's your turn to express yourself.
that concludes the vote. have a good afternoon. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
madam president, of course i voted for this motion, but i think it’s slightly mad that we’re still here in 2023 having to argue that people who do equal work should get equal pay. but i guess that’s capitalism for you. an opportunity to exploit workers will always be taken, and women, as james connolly said, have always been ‘the slaves of slaves’. capital steals resources instead of paying for them whenever it can, and women’s time and energy is a resource pool it’s been robbing since the dawn of time. but let’s make no bones about it: at a time of record shareholder profits and stratospheric executive pay, workers – no matter their gender – are being robbed blind. so there’s not much benefit in us talking about a right to equal pay if it is a right to be treated equally badly. so if we’re fighting for equal pay for women, we have to fight for everybody’s pay to go up to a fair and equal level.
ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has today adopted a directive which strengthens the application of the principle of equal pay for men and women for equal work through transparency of pay and an enforcement mechanism. in 2021, the gender pay gap in the european union was more than 12,7%, to the disadvantage of women. i therefore voted in favour of the outcome of the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the commission and the council. i consider that greater transparency is essential and that is why i have supported this directive overall. i appreciate that the final version of the directive seeks to minimise the administrative burden on employers by gradually adapting these measures. this should give them enough time, both for large and especially for small employers, to prepare for the notification obligations and i would like to thank the czech presidency for bringing the negotiations to a successful conclusion.
madam president, when i had my first of my three daughters in 2002, i’d never have thought that over 20 years later would be standing in this place still talking about the fact that we have to fight for equal pay for equal work. it’s extraordinary. but this is good news, what we’re doing here. it could be done quicker, it could be done for smaller companies. but, look, it’s an improvement. this directive will offer a series of new rights to all european workers, notably on access to information and justice, and will allow for the implementation of plans to reduce the gender pay gap within the largest workplaces. the gender pay gap remains around 14%. i don’t know how the hell that’s the case. it’s a shame that we actually have to force people to do this. but look, if we have to do that, we have to do it. it’s a pity that just wouldn’t do it because it’s the right thing to do. the pay gap has a long-term impact on the quality of women’s lives, their increased risk of and exposure to poverty. and the persisting pension pay gap is 33% in the eu. i hope by the time my eight-year-old daughter, my third daughter, is an adult, she won’t have to put up with this crap. time for change.
madam president, despite the principle of equal pay being enshrined in the treaty of rome, the eu continues to struggle with pay disparity. european women are, on average, paid almost 14% less than their male counterparts. it’ encouraging that this text allows workers to detect and prove discrimination based on sex, as well as shifting the burden of proof of non-discrimination from the employee to the employer. despite being a step in the right direction, pay transparency is not a magic wand that will bridge the pay gap. in the eu the income of a typical care worker ranges from between 50% and 80% less than the average income. the low pay, work conditions and the segregation of women into care work must end if we are in any way to advance gender equality and pay in our society.
madam president, i voted against this report with conviction because it is one of the examples of lobbying here in the european parliament. under slogans of environmental protection, under slogans of climate hysteria, of climate protection, in fact certain companies, in this case a german coalition, are lobbying to change the rules and to take business away from the countries in central and eastern europe where companies operating in the refrigeration, heating, in these and all areas will now have to make huge changes and will lose their jobs. this is a classic takeover of business, this is a classic re-alignment through the head of the european parliament. it's totally wrong, totally unacceptable. the 'mobility' package was thus prepared, thus benefiting again western european firms, entrepreneurs and businesses. so dutch and western european companies are working to keep bulgaria and romania out of schengen so that they can profit from transport. this is how the european parliament's chamber is used to make eastern europeans poorer and western europeans richer. it's a shame.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, reducing emissions of fluorinated gases in europe is the right thing to do. some fluorinated gases can persist in the atmosphere for thousands of years and have a greater global warming potential than carbon dioxide. in my vote i followed the opinion of the government of the czech republic, which had a favourable position on the commission's original proposal. unfortunately, the envi committee adopted some amendments which went significantly further in their ambition than the original commission text. in doing so, the european union's climate and energy security objectives can be maintained, but should go hand in hand with realistic and effective reductions in f-gases. i supported the amendments tabled in this respect. unfortunately, not all of them were adopted, and i doubt the realistic outcome of today's vote, which is why i abstained in the final vote.
madam president, these gases have a huge global warming impact and need to be phased out as soon as possible. i want to address some concerns raised by the heat pump associations that the quota available in the regulation will hamper the rollout of heat pumps. now, the heat pump industry will be central to the decarbonisation of the eu. but their concerns have already been addressed by the commission in its impact assessment and technical discussions. simply giving an even bigger quota is not the solution. quotas are not allocated to any specific sector. therefore, the heat pump manufacturers would receive only a small fraction of any additional quota that would have been distributed. the environmental committee report explicitly provides a repowereu reserve for heat pumps, which means that the commission will be able to give additional quotas to heat pump manufacturers if any shortages arise that might derail heat pump installation targets. now, but the derogation for military equipment is an absolute joke. so the sector causing untold damage to the planet are getting a free pass. this is madness.
madam president, i welcome the measures to tackle the depletion of the ozone and i voted for the file. but while that’s all well and good, there is a huge contradiction between our statements here and the fact that the biggest methane emission ever, with huge consequences for the ozone, took place last september with the blowing-up of the nord stream pipelines – a devastating act of sabotage on eu infrastructure. and nobody in the eu has anything to say about it. neither do we want to do anything about it. seymour hersh produces a very credible report that the us was responsible, along with norway, then us intelligence come up with nonsense that it was a pro-ukrainian non-state group. come on, we don’t need leaks from the people who brought us the weapons of mass destruction in iraq. we need answers, and that the un security council and two european members failed to support the call for an independent investigation into the explosion this week is absolutely scandalous. if we want to protect the ozone, we have to have some consistency in our policies.
madam president, i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on substances that deplete the ozone layer because the protocol describing them and subsequent decisions at world level create a legal obligation for the union and its member states to set a timetable for phasing out the production and consumption of substances that deplete the ozone layer. i support the european commission's overall approach and its proposal to revise the regulation on these substances. i believe that the commission's proposal has left some gaps which have been largely filled by my colleagues from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. i am glad that there is finally not only a green alarm in the chamber but also some sense of decreasing unnecessary administrative burden and that clarifications and additions have been made to avoid duplication of directives and regulations.
madam president, i voted against this report because it is one of the scandalous, scandalous debates we have in this chamber. for people on the left, the rule of law is just the imposition of their gender ideology, same-sex marriage and all kinds of other far-left, far-progressive and far-progressive ideologies. the rule of law means equal and equal application of the law, swiftly and fairly. but what the left, the socialists, the democrats and so on don't say is that they're trying to talk about democracy and about law, and they don't talk about cathargate, they don't talk about corruption in their own ranks, they don't talk about the fact that we haven't heard from the commission yet how the pfizer deal was made, how much money was spent, who signed those contracts. is there corruption there? people who have proven corrupt officials in their ranks, arrested with money bribed from qatar, teach us about mind, reason and morality. it's so brazen and so impudent that it literally cannot be described. and the vigilante is always the country where the sovereign, normal governments, like in hungary, like in poland, protect the traditional values. it's not the rule of law that the left wants, it's the protection of corruption.
madam president, i voted for this report. on tuesday of this week, clara ponsatí was arrested and detained by spanish police at the behest of a spanish judge working on behalf of elements in the spanish state, in flagrant breach of a european court of justice order. an mep, a colleague. one of us is arrested and detained. a clear—cut case of state harassment, a threat and a warning to her. it is a bread—and—butter case of vicious political repression by the spanish judiciary and a violation of the rule of law. do we scramble the checks? do we clear the decks to discuss this case, condemn the arrest? do we hear denunciations across the house? do we hell. this issue goes well beyond politics. i don’t care what anybody thinks of the catalan independence movement; it really does not matter. if an eu state is arresting politicians it does not like in order to intimidate and harass them, in breach of her parliamentary immunity, in flagrant breach of eu law, you stand up. every month in here, we get people coming in and telling us how great you are at defending democracy and rule of law and all this kind of good stuff, but when it comes to tackling these issues at home, you are totally silent.
madam president, when arbitrary political decision-making has undue influence or interferes in established law, we have a rule of law problem. this is often precisely what happens when the eu makes use of its unilateral sanctions mechanism. we are applying crushing extraterritorial unilateral sanctions and secondary sanctions on governments and individuals that have a blanket effect on entire populations. these decisions are taken by the council – a political body – based on political prejudice and geo political agendas. these sanctions have terrible impact on countries such as venezuela, nicaragua, syria and iran, among others. ordinary people are dying in tens of thousands for lack of access to medicines and medical treatments, all because of a small collection of political actors have political grudges against the administrations in these countries. this is international banditry and political persecution with next to no basis in customary international law. what is the commission going to do about this?
mr president, these legislative files are supposed to contribute to the eu’s goal of reducing its overall emissions by at least 55% by 2030. firstly, that 55% reduction target is far too low, given the eu’s historical contribution to global rising temperatures and the eu’s capacity to reduce its emissions. but secondly, the individual legislative files that are part of the fit for 55 package are – after the legislative process has been completed – failing to add up to the overall 55% reduction target. the final outcome of the emission trading system process is unfit to contribute towards the eu’s goal of reducing its overall emissions by at least 55% by 2030, and is way off the mark for what is required to keep temperature rises within the relatively safe zone of 1.5°c. the ets has failed to deliver any meaningful reductions in industrial emissions from sectors such as steel, cement and chemicals. this is mainly due to the billions of free pollution permits given to energy—intensive industries under the scheme – and now we’re repeating the same mistake again.
mr president, people and young people in particular are protesting against the impact of climate change on their lives, against the worsening of these consequences. we see it every year, drought, we talk about it here in the house almost every year, extreme precipitation on the other hand. we see sea level rise. these are all consequences of human activity, and we must confront this growth. our commitment of fifty-five percent after accounting for the better land use through the climate package that we're bringing into being here actually amounts to fifty-seven percent. we're investing in energy efficiency, we're investing in renewable energy, we're investing in air and sea transport. of course, this package will have some negative impacts on people's lives. we have to mention them here, but we're dealing with them through the social climate fund, which we also set up. i think it's important to say that the single most important moment for our future is sustainability. and that is climate neutrality.
mr president, what we are dealing with today is the deepening of the perverse and ineffective instrument of buying and selling the right to pollute, by extending the trading of emission allowances to a greater number of sectors. the scope is widening, the demands on the states are increasing, a path is being imposed which will contribute to the aggravation of inequalities and asymmetries, to phenomena of economic and productive concentration, and which passes on to the people and the workers the bill for the profits and economic interests of a few. so much so that they are now creating a fund to mitigate the impact of this path on people, a so-called social and climate fund which, in addition to being insufficient and with a small range of beneficiaries, penalizes portugal in particular, unjustifiably discriminating against a country of cohesion. we have said it before and we will say it again: today's environmental problems require a regulatory approach, as opposed to market instruments, which sets reduction targets in accordance with fair and effective criteria, in accordance with the principle of common but differentiated responsibility.
mr president, we are talking about fit for 55 against the backdrop of the revision of the european emissions trading scheme for the aviation sector. we all know that the biggest question in this area has always been the issue of long haul flights accounting for 6% of flights from the eea, but responsible for about half of the co2 and nox emissions. yet under the new eu legislation, these flights are going to continue to be covered by the much cheaper un corsia offset scheme, rather than our european emissions trading scheme. obviously we need to be doing a hell of a lot more, but there are powerful forces in the way, and when governments make decisions that are often being blocked. we’ve seen the decision by the dutch government to reduce the capacity of schiphol airport being taken to court by many airlines. the same airport, when it abandoned the creation of a new runway, banned night flights and private jets which emit a lot more – 20 times more – than commercial flights, should have been an example for europe, but yet they were blocked. we’ve seen the same thing with france trying to ban domestic flights in the case of a 2.5 hour rail alternative. we’ve got to stop talking out of both sides of our mouth. choosing between a habitable environment or airline profits should never be a difficult choice.
the renew europe group has notified the president of a decision relating to changes to appointments within a committee. this decision will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and take effect on the date of this announcement.
the next item is a short presentation of the report by loránt vincze on the institutional relations between the eu and the council of europe (2022/2137(ini) (a9—0056/2023).
mr president, in here we like to use human rights as a stick to beat other countries with. but the european convention on human rights represents a joint commitment by signatories to respect and protect human rights at home. that’s why it was so disappointing to see ireland argue last week against the case taken by the swiss climate seniors and claim that the convention does not guarantee a right to a clean, healthy and sustainable environment. ireland was the second country worldwide to declare a climate emergency back in 2019, yet we had the highest emissions per capita in the eu in the second half of last year. we are playing an active role in this devastating climate emergency which claimed the lives of 15 000 people in the eu in 2022. it’s about time the irish government did a bit more than talk about climate action.
mr president, we’re obviously talking here about closer cooperation between the eu and the council of europe, and that’s something that i very much support. paragraph 35, in particular, talks about the whole area of media freedom. but whereas the council of europe has been loud and consistent on the case of julian assange, for example, the european union has been silent, and i think this is absolutely scandalous. three years ago, the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe passed a resolution declaring that the detention and prosecution of julian assange set a dangerous precedent for all journalists. they called for his release and 37 representatives issued a declaration that the assange case threatens the council of europe’s standards on the protection of journalistic sources, the rights of journalists and freedom of expression. and commissioner mijatović called on the uk not to extradite assange on the basis that it would have a chilling effect on media freedom and hamper the activities of the press. if this report is to mean anything, we should follow the example of our counterparts, put ourselves on the right side of history and call for the release of julian assange.
mr president, europe's action for the values of democracy, the rule of law, human rights, women's rights and the rights of minorities is recognised throughout the world. the european union and the council of europe are fighting this common battle and the report already highlights the important convergences that exist. what is proposed is to go further, to pool resources, to place the european union within the scope of the european court of human rights, to structure a space which will be the most important institution for the defence of human rights in the world. among the proposed priorities, the protection of minorities is a strongly affirmed priority. it is an honour for europe and its institutions to be regarded as an example throughout the world. this is an area where we have a great deal of influence and the proposals in this report will help to increase its impact. at a time when a humiliating scandal from qatar and morocco has tarnished our reputation, this report puts the european parliament back at the forefront of the fight for human rights, but it also calls on all the other institutions of europe and all the member states to step up their action in this area too.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur mr vincze and the honourable members who have contributed to the parliament report on the institutional relations between the european union and the council of europe. as you know, the foreign affairs council recently adopted new european union priorities towards the council of europe, which aim to strengthen our political dialogue and cooperation with the organisation. this is particularly relevant in the wake of russia’s expulsion from the council of europe, which demonstrates the international organisation’s re-commitment to its core values of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. the new eu priorities address many of the issues raised in your report. we welcome that your report recognises the already excellent rule of law cooperation between the european union and the council of europe. the commission has worked closely with the council of europe for the preparation of the report on the situation of the rule of law report in the eu, since its first edition. the yearly commission reports take particular account of the council of europe’s recommendations and opinions and make extensive use of the work of bodies such as greco, the venice commission, which you already mentioned, and of course, the european court of human rights. the 2022 rule of law report for the first time provides an overview of the implementation of judgments of the european court of human rights by eu member states. the european union and the council of europe also cooperate closely in promoting democracy, human rights and the rule of law in the eu’s external relations and, in particular, supporting eu candidate and potential candidate countries in carrying out the necessary reforms to meet the european union accession criteria. the opinions of the venice commission play an important role in this regard. your report also recalls the importance of the european union’s accession to the european convention of human rights. as you know, there is a provisional unanimous political agreement and the text has been published. this is good news. however, there is still homework for the european union. we must find a way to deal with the issue of human rights protection in the common foreign and security policy. this is something we must try to solve within the european union, and discussions on the internal solution are currently continuing in the council. regarding ukraine, we welcome the support provided by the council of europe to document violations of human rights in the context of russia’s war of aggression and, in particular, to enhance the capacity of organisations contributing to ongoing accountability efforts. the european union is in favour of setting up an international register of damages. we are discussing the matter with the council of europe, which along with ukraine and the netherlands, aims to take a lead role in establishing the register. it will record evidence and information on claims for damages, losses or injury caused by russia’s war of aggression against ukraine. this is a first step towards the establishment of a compensation mechanism. the icelandic presidency of the council of europe is proposing to adopt a declaration on the situation of the more than 19 500 ukrainian children who, according to ukraine, have been transferred to areas temporarily occupied by russia or deported to russia. the european union supports efforts of the un and the international committee of the red cross to trace the children and facilitate family reunification. and we have welcomed the arrest warrants issued by the international criminal court against president putin and ms lvova-belova, the russian commissioner for children’s rights, as an important step towards russian leadership, accountability for war crimes. the european union has also imposed sanctions against 16 individuals responsible for the deportation and forced transfer of ukrainian children, including ms lvova-belova. we will continue identifying those involved with the aim of implementing further restrictive measures. discussions also continue on ukraine’s proposal for the establishment of a tribunal for the crime of aggression. while positions still diverge on the nature of such a tribunal and its legal basis, the european union continues working with partners, including the council of europe, to ensure maximum international support for ukraine’s efforts to ensure full accountability. the european union supports the holding of the council of europe’s fourth summit on 16—17 may this year in reykjavik, which will be instrumental in this regard. i would like to thank all of you, especially your rapporteur, for your report and for your kind attention.
the item is closed. the vote will be held tomorrow. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. there are some embarrassing aspects to the relationship between the european union and the council of europe. the most serious of these is the failure of the eu institutions to agree to the eu's binding - within the council of europe - european convention on human rights. in this way, the eu institutions do not want to submit to the control of the european court of human rights, which operates within the institutional system of the council of europe. this is despite the fact that the eu institutions have taken over the exercise of a number of competences that belong to the member states. these institutions want to be treated as state bodies (or indeed - whatever that means - 'super-states') but do not want to be subject to human rights controls to the same extent and in the same way as states. the eu is bound by the european convention on human rights by article 6 teu and protocol no 8 to the teu. the european convention on human rights is binding on all eu member states. the eu institutions and their activities are not subject to such scrutiny. this creates a situation where there are currently only three enclaves in europe that are not subject to the council of europe's human rights protection system: the russian federation, the republic of belarus and the eu institutions. it's time for these institutions to leave the fold. they should be under the law, not trying to maintain a position where they're above the law.
the next item is a short presentation of the report by alexander bernhuber on sustainable carbon cycles (2022/2053(ini)) (a9-0066/2023).
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for a very good report on this point, because it is really about finding sustainable solutions and new sources of funding for carbon storage. we certainly need to better reward land managers for carbon storage and biodiversity conservation in terms of the topics we're going to be addressing. and it is important that these land managers have the relevant data at their disposal. this is based on the assumption that by 2028, every land manager should have access to verified data. we have ambitious goals here. by 2030, 310 million tonnes should be stored or so captured in the soil sector and 20% of non-fossil products should be placed on the market in the industrial sector and 5 million tonnes captured directly from the atmosphere. those are very ambitious goals. i support them. i think we should insist on technological neutrality. no technology should be excluded a priori. this also applies to the ccs technology mentioned by the rapporteur.
mr president, we’re asking farmers to cut methane and other emissions in the agricultural sector, but crucially also to draw carbon out of the atmosphere by sequestering it in soils. we really need to urgently get on with this and give farmers the right tools and finance to transition to sustainable forms of agriculture. agroecology is clearly the answer, and it’s very good that we are in here discussing these issues and producing this report. but there is something sickeningly ironic with this debate in the context of our deafening silence with regard to the biggest-ever release of methane in history, which happened on our territory last september. methane, a greenhouse gas 80 times more powerful than carbon dioxide, with the latest un data estimates of between 75 000 and 230 000 metric tonnes of it released in the nord stream 2 economic sabotage and environmental terrorism. these issues aren’t going to go away. the truth will out. we should start by asking questions and demanding an independent investigation.
mr president, we need to be very careful with how we set up carbon farming. in ireland, we have a target of 25% emissions reductions for the agricultural sector by 2030. it would be a total disaster if we had farmers selling off carbon credits, absorbing their decarbonisation efforts and handing them over to big businesses to greenwash their activities. farmers wouldn’t be able to count these efforts towards their own 2030 targets. this would make the 25% target even more difficult for the agricultural sector to achieve. is this what’s wanted? farmers need finance for carbon removals. there are ways we can get private finance into carbon farming without damaging farmers and giving dirty industries a free pass, such as a contribution claim model. there’s also an eu instrument that takes up a third of all the eu budget: it’s called the cap. and it’s about time that we made the cap fit for purpose – one that would actually help farmers to move in the right direction.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me start by thanking the rapporteur, mr bernhuber, for his work. to reach climate neutrality in 2050 we need deep and drastic emission cuts, but it is impossible to bring all our emissions down to zero. we will need carbon removals as well. we will have to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, store it through technology or natural carbon sinks. the international panel on climate change points towards the decreasing likelihood of limiting global warming to 1.5°c unless rapid reductions of greenhouse gas emissions occur. the international panel on climate change report clearly states that the deployment of carbon dioxide removal to counterbalance hard—to—abate residual emissions is unavoidable if net zero co2 or greenhouse gas emissions are to be achieved. carbon removals will play a critical role in helping to meet our climate neutrality target, but it cannot be sustainable for drastically reducing emissions, which must remain a priority. recognising the growing importance of carbon removals, the commission adopted the communication on sustainable carbon cycles, which is the subject of the report that we are discussing today. the communication sets out three pillars to establish sustainable and climate—resilient carbon cycles. first and foremost, we need to drastically reduce our reliance on carbon, for instance, by improving the efficiency of our buildings, transport modes and industries, by reducing our primary resource consumption and moving to a circular economy and scaling up renewable energy. the second pillar is about the circularity of carbon. we need to recycle carbon from waste streams and emissions from sustainable sources of biomass or directly from the atmosphere to use it in the sectors of the economy that will inevitably remain carbon dependent. the third pillar is carbon removals. we need to upscale carbon removal solutions that capture co2 from the atmosphere and store it for the long term. the communication established a roadmap to promote both industrial carbon removal technologies and carbon farming practices. industrial carbon removal technologies will support the european union’s green tech leadership and create innovative business opportunities. carbon farming will incentivise our farmers, foresters and other land managers to store carbon in soil, trees, shrubs, wetlands and in peatlands, to provide them with a new source of income in return. in addition, practices such as tree restoration or enhanced agricultural soil management have great co-benefits for nature and the sustainability of food supply. however, to build such new business models for industrial carbon removals or carbon farming, carbon removals need to be credible. market actors need to be certain that a tonne of co2 claimed as removed is actually removed and stored. therefore, we need to establish a framework for the reliable certification of carbon removals. the commission proposed last year a voluntary eu—wide certification framework as a tool to reliably monitor, report and verify high—quality carbon removals that deliver unambiguous climate benefits. quantifying and verifying carbon removals in a robust and transparent way is a crucial first step before the possible future integration into eu climate policy post 2030. in addition, we need to fight greenwashing and ensure that the growing corporate commitments on climate neutrality result in real climate benefit. the certification will provide certainty on the integrity of the removals, which is key considering the growing interest and global investments. there is also significant european funding supporting the development and deployment of carbon removals available. common agricultural policy funds can be used to support farmers that invest in carbon farming practices, and the eu innovation fund uses the revenue from the eu—ets to finance carbon removal projects. there are also already numerous life projects dedicated to carbon farming and funding under horizon europe, including under the eu mission ‘a soil deal for europe’, under which substantial funds are being channelled to further research and testing of carbon farming practices on the ground. beyond carbon farming, biodiversity preservation and increase is also critical to foster our carbon removals. science is clear: more biodiverse forests are also those that remove more carbon, being also more productive and multifunctional. healthy wetlands and peatlands are also key for climate change, mitigation and adaptation. in that sense, nature restoration as well as the implementation of the kunming—montreal global biodiversity framework agreement are also vital. it is essential that we transform industry and further enhance the growth of carbon removals. that is why the commission is preparing a communication on industrial carbon management as a direct follow—up to the communication on sustainable carbon cycles that we discussed today. it will set a union strategy to establish by 2030 a market for the capture, transport, storage and utilisation of co2. we should fully reap the potential of carbon removals. at international level, developments are moving fast. in the us, for example, we see unprecedented levels of investment and funding for carbon removals. the net zero industry act already provides for a simplified regulatory environment for ccs investment and sets a 50 million tonne target for operating permanent co2 storage capacity annually by 2030. the communication on industrial carbon management will look at the longer term to identify the needs in infrastructure development, investment and regulation. it will propose a roadmap to ensure that industrial carbon management can fully support the achievement of a climate—neutral european union by 2050. let me conclude by thanking you once again for your work on this file and by expressing our wish for swift progress on the commission’s proposal for a regulation on a carbon removal certification framework. this lays an important foundation for realising the full benefits of carbon removals.
the item is closed. the vote will be held tomorrow. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. with this report on sustainable carbon cycles, we are asking parliament to provide a robust framework for carbon credits. techniques such as carbon agriculture can help us to make agricultural land in the european union an asset in the fight against climate change. it is essential to link this to a profit model that really does bring something back to farmers. this initiative should not be seen as a mere additional commitment to all existing commitments under the common agricultural policy or the farmer-to-farm strategy. with this proposal of so-called "carbon credits", we can work on a certification for carbon storage in, among other things, agricultural land that works for the farmer on the field. only if we succeed in doing so and thereby create an incentive to apply techniques that capture more carbon from the air will this proposal bring benefits to nature and farmers.
the next item is a short presentation of the report by tomislav sokol on egovernment accelerating digital public services that support the functioning of the single market (2022/2036(ini)) (a9-0065/2023).
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, today we are discussing the report on egovernment by the imco committee and honourable member, my dear colleague, tomislav sokol. as recalled in last month’s communication on the single market, digitalising public services cuts red tape and makes the single market work better, in particular for smes. that is why the digital decade policy programme sets a target of having 100% of key public services accessible online. the european parliament’s resolution is thus very timely. the commission welcomes the report, and specifically its call on the commission to propose a strategic approach which connects the dots and assesses how better egovernment contributes to an improved business environment, while reducing costs for governments. i particularly welcome that the report emphasises the importance of e-procurement. recently, on 16 march, the commission introduced the public procurement data space. this new data space will improve public spending, boost data-driven policymaking and improve access to tenders for companies, smes, public buyers, policy-makers and citizens. it will tap into the full potential of public procurement data in the single market. the initial feedback is encouraging. most member states signalled their interest in connecting national data sources to the ppds, the public procurement data space. i take note of the report’s call to include public procurement in the list of high-value datasets. the commission has commissioned a study on the extension of categories of high-value datasets that will be published soon. as recommended in the report, we employ open source technologies wherever possible to ensure easy re-use of the tools by the member states. we agree that timely implementation of the new digital standard for publishing public procurement – by using the so-called eforms – is key. this is why the commission and the union’s publication office work together to support member states in their uptake of eforms, including for calls below eu thresholds. eforms will be constantly enriched to support optional elements, such as information on the green and digital transitions. we also intend to include the use of completion notices to harvest data covering the entire procurement cycle. as the report stresses, another important data space initiative is the commission’s proposal for the european health data space, which was presented in may last year. the european health data space aims to further accelerate the use of digital health data by individuals and for secondary use purposes, including research and development. we fully endorse the report’s call for quicker, easy-to-use online information and administrative procedures. this is precisely the purpose of the single digital gateway, launched in 2020. it’s portal, your europe, provides a one-stop shop for reliable administrative and regulatory information and assistance at all levels of government. it has had a promising start: visitor statistics show that, in 2022, more than 120 000 hours were spent on the your europe webpages. even by a conservative estimate of legal advice costs, this can be translated to savings, especially for small businesses, of around €2.5 million per year. the once only technical system will bring the digitalisation of public services to the next level. it will be deployed by the end of this year and will ensure that when a business or citizen has submitted the document to a public administration, the document can be safely transferred to other public administrations, avoiding the need to resubmit it. this will massively reduce burdens on businesses. for instance, it will make it easier to comply with social security obligations or to get a permit. that is why the single digital gateway will also help realise the ambitions under the net zero industry act and the critical raw materials act. the commission will soon adopt the first single digital gateway implementation report. as a complement to the single digital gateway, the commission also recently adopted a proposal to further expand the use of digital tools and processes in eu company law. in addition, the european digital identity framework – currently under discussion by co-legislators – will further facilitate access to online public services, such as those offered via the single digital gateway. to facilitate identification and authentication of digital transactions, it is important to bring this legislative process to a swift conclusion. i also took good note of the references in the report to the importance of connectivity for egovernment. on 23 february, the commission presented the new package of three initiatives, including a proposal for a regulation – the gigabit infrastructure act – a new gigabit recommendation and an exploratory consultation on the future of the electronic communications sector and its infrastructure, which is open until 19 may. these initiatives will help create the right environment to stimulate investments and reduce the costs and delays for the deployment of very high capacity networks. i would finally like to stress the importance of the interoperable europe act, which is currently in negotiation with the council and parliament. the act will establish a strengthened governance structure between the commission and member states to ensure interoperability by default, limit administrative burden for citizens and businesses, and hence further strengthen our single market. thanks again to the imco committee and the rapporteur, mr sokol, for this timely report on this important topic of egovernment.
the item is closed. the vote will be held tomorrow. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is a short presentation of the report by alviina alametsä on the implementation of civilian csdp and other eu civilian security assistance (2022/2196(ini)) (a9-0091/2023).
rapporteur. – mr president, dear colleagues, war has cast a huge shadow over our minds during the past year. we must remember that peace is not just the absence of war, and we have to work for peace. peaceful society is where people can resolve their differences without violence and work together for a better life, community and society. this must be the goal of the eu civilian crisis management. i am very pleased today to present you the report of the implementation of the civilian csdp. at the moment, it is very fitting, as the council is due to adopt the civilian compact in may, setting up the goals and ambition for the eu civilian crisis management for the years to come. i truly hope that this report will contribute to that discussion, and i thank the colleagues for working together on that with me. while the changing security environment has caused the eu to strengthen its military instruments in europe and abroad, and justly so, it is also crucial that the eu sends the message that we also want to want to boost our non-military security support and promote sustainable peace in our neighbourhood and globally. the changing security environment has increased the need for civilian crisis management and what is required of the missions. unfortunately, the resources of these missions haven’t grown in that proportion. the adoption of the first civilian compact was an important step in 2018, but several of its commitments are yet to be fulfilled after so many years. this report makes concrete proposals on how to make the civilian csdp stronger and fit for an uncertain future. there is no doubt that supporting the security sector, rule of law and policing remain at the heart of our civilian crisis management. we must improve considerably at assessing how effective our missions are and what impact they are creating. the eu missions are ultimately about the security and safety of citizens and about the justice system and the rule of law. how does it work for them? does a woman abused by her husband feel safe to go and inform the police about it? can she trust that justice system will protect her and help her? will there be educated and informed people available in that system to help her seek justice, for example? to increase our effectiveness, civilian measures must be truly integrated into the eu’s response to crises and missions, and those must be better equipped with new capabilities such as cyber security. it is also important that all missions promote equality and gender equality, both in the higher inclusion of women in mission personnel, but also by effectively integrating gender perspective into missions, mandates and activities. finally, civilian crisis management and csdp is a unique tool in the eu’s toolbox to promote peace and security in our partner countries. there is immense potential in civilian crisis management, but to generate positive change, we need to invest in it. we need to actually promote peace and security and put both our minds and our resources and all of our willpower into that. so let’s send a strong message to the member states together: it is time to set a step up our ambition. i very much thank you, all of the colleagues who have been working with me on this report to make all of these concrete proposals. i hope they will genuinely change how we do things.
mr president, supposedly, the goals of our civilian security and defence policy include conflict resolution, crisis management, disarmament, all very essential to the security of people and communities internationally. but of course, that’s not actually what we’re doing at all. we’re using these issues as a cover to advance our interests in these areas. there are, of course, positive elements in the report, but unfortunately they’re swamped by talks about geopolitical conflict with our “strategic competitors”. they double down on the failure of the security-sector-reform model, which has led to disasters in mali and the broader sahel. we talk about migration of human beings as a security threat. we call for increases in defence spending, blurring the boundaries between civilian and military policy, calling for closer cooperation with nato and using development aid as leverage over other countries. we reject all of this, civilian missions shouldn’t be about our advancement, they should be about maintaining international peace and security and addressing the needs of affected populations.
mr president, the idea of civilian csdp should be a positive endeavour. conflict resolution, disarmament and crisis management are deeply important today, yet the report before us is committed to a militaristic framing of these practices that undermines the pretence that there is very much strictly civilian about civilian csdp at all. the report stresses that the increased presence of strategic competitors in operational theatres necessitates more effective civilian csdp, better able to adapt to new challenges. the report characterises migration as a security threat, calls for an increase in defence spending, civil-military cooperation and closer cooperation with nato. god help us. the eu maintains an economic stranglehold and systems of exploitation over many of the places where these missions are active. as long as we ignore the structural barriers to peace, view all problems through a militaristic lens and learn no lessons from the many disastrous wars we’ve taken part in, we’ll do very little to advance peace or stability in these regions surrounding europe.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, on behalf of the commission and the high representative borrell, i would like to thank the rapporteur ms alametsä and the meps who have contributed to the ep report on the implementation of civilian common security and defence policy and other eu civilian security assistance. today’s debate provides a timely opportunity to summarise the results achieved under the first civilian common security and defence policy compact and to focus on the future developments, including the next compact. under the first civilian csdp compact, solid progress has been made both at member state level and within eu services and civilian csdp missions. however, as its implementation will soon come to an end, on 30 june, challenges remain. our 12 csdp missions are deployed in some of the most challenging environments. with around 2 200 women and men serving under the eu flag, the civilian missions are our trademark instrument in our response to external conflicts and crises, ultimately contributing to our own security at home. they have proven capable of swiftly and effectively addressing the most pressing foreign policy challenges and meeting partners’ needs. most recent examples are the swift adaptation of the mandate of the eu advisory mission in ukraine after russia’s brutal invasion, or the rapid establishment of a new civilian mission in armenia. with the launching soon of the 30th civilian mission to moldova, civilian csdp has also proved to be adaptable to new and emerging security challenges, including hybrid threats and foreign interference and information manipulation: key threats you have also identified in your report. all this shows that the demand for civilian crisis management is growing, and as the security environment around europe and beyond deteriorates, there is no time to rest on our laurels. dear members, your report also points out some of the shortcomings of civilian csdp, including lack of sufficient resources and funding. member states’ staff contributions have witnessed limited change, with only ten member states providing 78% of seconded personnel, and the budget has remained tight despite a growing number of tasks and missions on the ground. this brings me to the question: what next? in light of changing security threats, the strategic compass calls upon us to adopt a second civilian csdp compact by mid-2023 – the middle of this year – to advance towards a more effective and capable civilian csdp. today you call for more resources, funding, political visibility and strategic vision for civilian csdp missions, and we share this perspective. civilian csdp missions are the union’s flagship crisis management tool under the political ownership of member states and financed through our cfsp budget. the missions have to effectively respond to our partners’ needs, ensure local ownership and make a real change on the ground. the second civilian csdp compact provides us with an opportunity to renew commitments and assign concrete timelines and actions to them. there are multiple work strands where we need to speed up our efforts. let me just mention a few of them. first, we need to address the capability gap. we have to provide our missions with the skilful resources they need to deliver on their tasks. this is essential to translate our political ambitions into concrete deliverables. second, we need an effective evaluation mechanism to measure the impact of our civilian mission. this will allow us to assess the relevance of their mandates. the third: our response needs to be agile. our ambition remains to be able to deploy 200 experts in 30 days. to conclude, allow me to take the opportunity to express our sincere gratitude and appreciation to those women and men serving in our 12 civilian csdp missions in often challenging and non-permissive environments. let me once again thank you for your contribution and your engagement in civilian csdp. we encourage you to stay involved over the implementation of the next civilian csdp compact.
the item is closed. the vote will be held tomorrow.
the next and last item on the agenda is the one-minute speeches, pursuant to rule 172.
mr president, i would like to draw attention today to a serious problem, namely the non-transposition or delayed transposition of european law into national legal systems. as our citizens in europe have the right to consume the benefits of our legislation, which we adopt, they should of course also have obligations. if european law is not transposed into national legal systems, the rule of law is violated, the principle of trust and legal certainty is violated. it is important that member states implement in their legal systems the standards which require such adaptation, not all european acts are transposable in the member state without further adaptation. as i said, citizens' trust in the european union is at stake here, and i think that something is wrong when the european commission publishes a list of dozens of countries which violate this right of transposition in individual sectors. we should sweep up in front of our own door. the czech republic also fails to transpose a number of european regulations, especially in the energy sector. it's also a disadvantage to our citizens. so let's transpose european law into our legal systems.
mr president, this week we in slovakia are celebrating the so-called narcissus day, which is a symbol of the fight against cancer. there is not just one type of cancer, but there are many different types of cancer, and they affect different parts of the body. it is a subtle illness that may not be painful at first, and therefore it is often detected late in the disease. according to the latest findings, in slovakia, a country of five million, there are up to 40,000 new cancer cases a year, a huge number. it's still one of the leading causes of death in the world, but also in europe. it is therefore important to appeal to preventive inspections and not to neglect them. early diagnosis can prevent the disease in many cases. in recent years, due to the corona measures and the overload of the health system, prevention has been neglected. i think it is necessary to appeal to the member states to encourage and encourage people to go on the demonstrations, also by supporting the campaigns of organisations working with cancer patients and their families. we all know someone close to us who is fighting, has fought, or has overcome cancer. let's support each other and we in slovakia will put a daffodil flower as a symbol of support.
mr president, the worst proof that the rule of law is in decline in greece is what is happening with the murder of the journalist george karaivas two years ago. greece is the only member state of the european union where a journalist has been murdered without the perpetrators being arrested. it is also the only member state where the authorities do not report on the progress of the investigation or even on the lack of progress and the reasons for this lack of progress. there are two directions in which suspicion is directed: investigations by karaivas, which may have disturbed the deep state that operates illegally in greece, such as eavesdropping, investigations by karaivas, which may have revealed links between the greek police and organized crime. in any case, the mitsotakis government owes answers and results.
mr president, month after month, people come in here and shout ‘glory to ukraine’. the walls and the buildings are decked with flags and slogans: ‘stand with ukraine’. but what does that mean? what does it mean for the thousands of young male ukrainian university students who are banned from travelling abroad to study? since last september, although enrolled in foreign colleges, they are forbidden from leaving their country, losing places, scholarships, grants, in flagrant breach of article 26 of the un declaration of human rights. and be clear: these men are not fleeing the war. they are exempt from military service. proud ukrainians, they want to play a part in redeveloping their country and rebuilding it after their education. yet they are being blocked by ukraine’s minister for science and education, who has failed to amend the law, while issuing exit letters for the sons of the connected and the privileged. they are being interned by zelenskyy, who – despite receiving a petition from 25 000 parents and students requiring him to act – has done nothing, and neither have the so-called friends of ukraine in the eu governments. surely standing with ukraine, if it’s to mean anything, means standing with the citizens and against corruption.
mr president, i would like to thank you. since 2017, uganda has received sek 2.5 billion in eu aid. meanwhile, uganda's parliament has voted to allow homosexuality to be punishable by death. all you have to do is identify yourself as gay and you could get ten years in prison. now all that's missing is the president's signature. the president, who has previously said he supports the proposal but also wants to protect the relationship with the west. it is the eu's duty to taxpayers to make demands on aid recipients. governments that violate human rights and oppress their own citizens or wage war against other countries do not need a penny of our tax money. it is immoral for the eu to give money to countries where homosexuality is punishable by death. where do we draw the line when our aid to an authoritarian regime does more harm than good? when do we help cement a dictatorship through generous aid? one thing is certain: we must now re-examine the eu's aid policy.
we will have a debate and a resolution on this subject tomorrow.
mr president, a new wave of migrants is threatening europe. italy has just declared a state of emergency in the face of an unprecedented influx of illegal immigrants. more than 3 000 people in three days and more than 31 000 migrants have illegally arrived on italian shores since the beginning of the year. four times what it was last year. finland has started to build a 200-kilometre wall and the netherlands is sounding the alarm because their reception devices are on the verge of saturation and the flows are still coming in. in this particularly worrying context, there is no longer time for technocratic and ideological speeches. we must act quickly and decisively. we must help the member states to protect their borders. all financial aid from the european union to states which refuse to take back their nationals who are here illegally must be abolished. and mechanisms must be put in place to deal with humanitarian crises outside europe. other countries have done so with excellent results. let us follow their example.
mr president, after weeks of nationwide strikes and protests, macron signed his deeply unpopular pension reform legislation into law last saturday. constitutional scholars are debating the pitfalls of a constitution that could be used legally in such an anti-democratic manner. since the start of his mandate, macron has hammered through crushing labour laws, tax cuts and neoliberal reforms – packages that rip up the social safety net and attack the working class, migrants and the poor. all this while doing everything in his power to benefit big business. over a million people took to the streets to reject his latest reforms. they were met with mass police violence, arrests, tear gas, rubber bullets, the baton and water cannon. if this was a country targeted for a regime change, we’d be passing resolutions in here calling for sanctions against the authoritarian regime. instead, there is complete silence as this autocratic neoliberal – with a 28% approval rating – intensifies his anti-democratic coercion of the people of france.
mr president, mr high representative, mr vice president, there is a line in beijing to meet president xi jinping. after chancellor scholz, prime minister sánchez, our presidents michel and von der leyen, after the saudi ministers, the iranians, even the taliban, in the last few days two idols of the european left have been touched: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the internal market, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. the latter, in order to regain some consensus at home by playing the part of the new de gaulle, thought well of dividing the west, dividing europe which today has its eastern flank so exposed to russian expansionism, abandoning taiwan just as china is becoming more aggressive and finally preaching strategic autonomy, forgetting that it is precisely the crazy ultra-environmentalist policies of the eu that macron enthusiastically supports that condemn us to an ever greater dependence on communist china. and that's certainly not a coherent strategy.
mr president, mr borrell, if the eu should have a coherent strategy for the eu-china relations, it should not originate in brussels. we just had the embarrassing spectacle of the commission president speaking ahead of a major diplomatic visit to china and slinging accusations at a chinese government that have scant connection to reality. the remarks were so bizarre and contradictory, it was difficult to decipher who their intended audience was. the fact is that some eu countries have good relations – trade and otherwise – with china, and other eu countries are less enthusiastic. there is a washington-led campaign to counter china’s economic influence in the world, so we see us talking points about internal repression and assertive behaviour abroad being parroted by eu representatives, while the us has no problem growing its trade and investment with china year on year. us financial capital wants to make profits in china and in europe, and driving a wedge between the eu and china is a good way of going about it for them. and very sadly, there’s people in brussels who appear to be helping them to do it.
mr president, china looks at europe and sees division. we must show unity and strength. as president von der leyen has cautioned, we must clearly set the terms of a healthy engagement. we must be honest and clear, and recognise that china certainly does not play by our rules. and yet china is a vital trading partner, but it seeks to dominate vital supply chains. their acts are not in line with our european values: human rights abuses of the uyghurs, an opaque stance on the ukraine invasion, threatening freedom and democracy in their own backyard. we must play to our strengths, promote global trade and engage as an equal. we must take the lead along with our partners in the democratic world in regulating critical sectors, such as ai, to protect global standards and the protection of rights. china’s interactions with putin are a cause of absolutely serious concern. any support in the form of weapons or otherwise would be hugely detrimental to our future relations. we should not allow ourselves to be divided.
madam president, energy security comes from the guarantee that we can produce enough in the european union, but equally that we can store it as well. when we look at our move towards renewables, we have to ensure that in terms of production of electricity, we also have the ability to store electricity in other forms of energy, and that requires a lot of investment in innovation and creating new technologies, and the european union has to play a lead role in that specific area of ensuring that there is huge investment in the areas of storage. it is the holy grail, commissioner, at the end of the day, in how we store electricity, and when we can break that particular challenge from an engineering perspective, well then we are very much on the way. we also, in the meantime, have to guarantee that we have base-load security across the entire european union in terms of electricity provision. so we do have to address the issue of energy storage in batteries, a smart grid, we also have to address the issue of the lack of investment in the area of hydrogen. and hydrogen, in my view, is a key component in converting renewables into energy when we need it in times of fluctuation of production because of the vagaries of renewables themselves – mainly wind and solar. but overall we are on the right path, but we need strategic investment from a european perspective to guarantee security through energy storage.
madam president, commissioner gabriel, good afternoon to you and your team and colleagues here. the objective of our 2022 european year of youth was to shine a light on the importance of europe’s youth in building a better future, a brighter future, and to very much put them at the centre of decision-making. yearly youth conferences and events should take place across all four corners of our union, really fostering local debates and encouraging young people to give their valued input into developing policy here that is debated and passed. and in september i was delighted to welcome four aspiring parliamentarians from midlands—north—west constituency in ireland to the parliament as part of the epp’s youth week. and i saw first-hand their commitment: our young people having to really put europeans’ future at the core on the table, and hear their invaluable perspectives that they offer. i would like to ask the commissioner, the youth unemployment rate stands at 13% in the eu. that’s over double the overall eu unemployment rate, and again i would like to ask how they will make vocational education and training programmes more visible, accessible and attractive to really showcase the wealth of opportunities that can be offered at national and at eu level.
mr. president, peru has been experiencing a situation of grave political instability since 2018, which has translated, as in many latin american countries, into serious clashes between the executive and the legislature. in addition, the covid pandemic generated a serious crisis in the country that cut off economic growth and left a record number of deaths. this spiral of instability reached its peak after castillo's election in 2021 and his subsequent attempt at a coup d'état last december. we have seen a very serious escalation of violence and public disorder in recent months, violence which must be addressed. there also has to be a proportionate use of force by law enforcement officers. the peruvian people and their representatives must abandon maximalist approaches and dialogue and collaborate so that the crisis can be overcome. the solution seems clear, according to many observers: early general elections will have to be held, but they are facing institutional difficulties. the european union must support the democratic and constitutional order of peru, a friendly country, a preferential partner of the union, and we are also the first foreign investor in the country. our economic and trade relations have only grown in recent years. we must help restore stability to this brother country.
mr president, since the detention of pedro castillo, the unelected peruvian government of dina boluarte, has unleashed a wave of terror. 70 people demanding political change have been killed and thousands have been injured. the government deployed troops across the country and suspended democratic rights, such as freedom of assembly and speech. amnesty have documented repeated incidents of unlawful use of lethal weapons against civilians, particularly against the indigenous population and rural farmworkers. now, these disgraceful human rights violations have been strongly condemned by some latin american leaders. if this was venezuela or nicaragua or cuba, i think the eu and the us would be clamouring for foreign intervention. but since boluarte’s government is a neoliberal regime, there has been little more than expressions of concern. recent polls show that 70 % of the people don’t just want elections but they want boluarte gone. now, once again, the eu and the us could find themselves on the wrong side of the people. but it’s possible to change this and i think there’s an onus on the eu to do better this time.
mr president, since december, 69 peruvians have died as a result of police repression, most of them indigenous peoples – aymaras and quechuas, and thousands have been injured, some mutilated and disabled for life. this repression, as we know, is taking place under the illegitimate presidency of dina boluarte, who was imposed following the effective coup against pedro castillo, who is currently in prison. castillo, of course, was elected on the promise of radical change in peru, the rejection of neoliberal policies that have promoted national plunder and serve the interests of multinationals. the revenge of the conservatives has been bloody, and it has particularly affected the poor and the rural indigenous populations of the south. these are the same regions which have been plagued by structural racism for decades, are impoverished and made more precarious by the consequences of neoliberalism. isn’t it about time that the eu, the so-called promoter of values, take off the blinkers, speak up, speak out against the violation of international law and human rights taking place in that country?
mr. chairman, fellow leftists, if you really wanted to save lives, you wouldn't be encouraging illegal immigration. if you really wanted to save lives, you wouldn't support ngos that organize human trafficking, you wouldn't give false hope and deceive the populations of africa, asia and the middle east that all these people can come to europe, settle here and impose their way of life. if you really wanted to save lives, you would say what is the reasonable number of people you would accept into your homes and set an example with your homes. how many people have you taken into each of your homes, how many have you accommodated, how many have you enrolled, how many have been integrated? my dear colleagues on the left, as much as you may not like it, countries have borders, and those borders must and can be defended, my dear colleagues. no matter how much you shake your head, every country has a border and illegal border crossing is a crime and those crimes should be punished because after all you are talking about the rule of law. that means rule of law, not trespassing. because here in europe, unlike you, we have our values and we have our religion. for me, it's orthodox, for some it's protestant, for others it's catholic. we have our way of life and we intend to keep it. i hope this isn't bad news for you.
mr president, ‘the current situation in the mediterranean is not a natural disaster, but the result of italian and european migration policies’. that’s what the private search and rescue ngo sea-watch said a few days ago, and i could not agree more. the situation in the mediterranean is currently more dramatic than ever before. the italian coast guard is completely overwhelmed. the state of emergency, which the far right italian government has now declared, only worsens the rights of people fleeing. more than ever, action must be taken now. we finally need a european non-military search and rescue programme that is financed by the money which is currently given to the so-called libyan coast guard. the more the eu is refraining from humane acting, the more the eu is betraying its own values. flight is not a crime.
mr president, i would like to thank you. more than 500 people, including 50 children, have lost their lives in the mediterranean this year. they're people like you and me, but born in another part of the world. people who risk their lives because the alternative is unthinkable. who would risk never seeing their child smile again if you had a better alternative? italy's migrant shelter on lampedusa is built for about 350 people, but today there are 3,000 migrants there, mostly women and children. it shows the need for a new common migration policy and a common reception. the situation today is untenable. the alternative is not to discourage people who are considering fleeing to europe by emptying the sea of rescue operations. if we take the ambulances off the streets, it's not that there'll be fewer accidents, but fewer survivors. saving lives and combating human trafficking are not opposites, but must go hand in hand. we can all share responsibility. so let's take it too.
mr president, i had the impression that ms meloni was able to deal with the migration and the asylum issue. that was her promise to the italian people. she was criticising pro-european political forces as being ineffective. the situation has worsened in italy, thus proving that meloni’s promises were baseless. at the beginning meloni had a national solution, and now that this solution has been proven non-existent, she tries to europeanise her own failure. she tries to create the impression that it is again the european union that creates problems in italy due to the lack of solidarity. mr weber and the epp tried to accommodate her in search of a right-wing majority in the european parliament. they should not count on our cooperation. we do not support anti—european reactionary policies. after all, their policies have nothing to do with merkel’s legacy.
mr president, commissioner, minister and colleagues, one of the central arguments that is ventilated by the far right is that ngo boats create a pull factor. so these debates can be very ideological and they can be very partisan. so let’s look at the facts. researchers in the european university institute in florence in italy looked at data going back to 2014 to examine this very question, and they concluded, and i quote, ‘no relationship exists between the presence of ngos at sea and the number of migrants leaving libyan shores’. in fact, the only thing that changes when ngo boats are not present is that fatalities increase. so, for me, in situations like that, sometimes we shouldn’t look at the secondary consequences of something. sometimes it is intrinsically the right thing to do. and as far as i’m concerned, i don’t think it’s controversial to say that it is intrinsically right to save lives at sea.
mr president, commissioners, colleagues, you know, just this week, we found out that greece has decided to continue its endless persecution of séan binder, sara mardini and more than 20 other search and rescue workers who gave of their time selflessly to rescue migrants at sea in the mediterranean. the greek prosecution says that the humanitarians had no right to access case documents in their own language. it says the search and rescue workers should be prosecuted as spies. so i ask you: where is eu solidarity in supporting and protecting search and rescue workers? greece continues to breach the rule of law. greece must be held to account and the charges against these search and rescue workers must be dropped once and for all.
for the left group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the indictment of mr putin by the international criminal court is an important sign that there is no impunity for the terrible war crimes committed in ukraine for more than a year. the specific crimes for which putin and his associates are charged are the abduction of thousands of ukrainian children to russia. ukrainian authorities report that thousands of children have been taken from ukraine to russia and that only just over 300 of these children have actually been returned to ukraine. we will respond by all means at our disposal, and the international instruments at our disposal - including the icc - must be used. while this criminal process is going on, we must make sure that the abducted children are returned to their homes. we must therefore give these families all our support, but we must also give our support to the organisations and institutions working to bring the children home, and we must be active in this process. the kids are going home. i hope that this indictment of putin will be followed by other indictments, because these are not the only war crimes that the brutal war of aggression has brought to ukraine. we know that women have been subjected to sexual violence and abuse in ukraine by the russian army. these crimes must also be held accountable. the women, like the children, will be made right and they will have our support. we're also going to focus on the people who are affected and the victims. i think it is important to hear from the commission and the council that we also support the icc. it should be a strong institution the eu has always been a strong player behind the icc so that it has the resources and legitimacy to investigate such crimes. now the court is showing that it is going after putin, who is the one most responsible for this brutal war of aggression and who is committing war crimes and we know it. the icc shall be further strengthened. we will bring in more countries and we will make sure that no war crimes committed in ukraine today will go unpunished.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very grateful to the international criminal court and especially to karim khan for doing his job, registering russian war crimes and identifying those responsible. vladimir putin and marija lvova-belowa are also personally and politically responsible in this particular case for the crimes we are specifically discussing here today. it is shameful that the aggressor of all people should want to give the impression that he is saving children by illegally deporting them. we see reports on television where ukrainian children are ceremonially naturalized as russians or are russified in some other way. some of the 361 children who have been returned to ukraine so far have given details of this. russification today as a german, i remember with shame the time of the german occupation not only in ukraine where similar practices were used, children who could be russified were deported and then made germans or at least tried to do so. it's terrible that history repeats itself. i expect all states that have ratified the icc statute to enforce the arrest warrants issued. but before that can happen, we must do our part to prevent impunity, and that means helping the competent ukrainian authorities and the investigators of the international criminal court to register cases of deportation and other crimes and to secure evidence. i also hope that many of the 141 states at the un that have spoken out against the war of aggression will actively contribute to this.
mr president, dear commissioner, dear minister, children are the most vulnerable in wartime. but what we now see is madness. russia has deported over 20 000 innocent children from ukraine. as a mother of two, i wonder, what if it was my son? what if it was my daughter taken away from me? and we know the brutal facts of russian officials forcing young children in re-education camps to ratify them. let’s be crystal clear. deporting children of war is a war crime. and i therefore welcome the arrest warrant by the international criminal court against putin. i also welcome the initiative of president von der leyen to organise a conference on this tragedy, and as co-chair of the intergroup on children’s rights, i can only say ‘you have our full support’. organise it – we will help you. colleagues, the most important thing we have to say here today, as the european parliament: we know where a lot of children are so bring them home. take them back to their families. that’s our duty.
mr president, all war is criminal and children its most innocent of victims. exaggeration isn’t necessary. even one case of the mistreatment of children is deadly serious. the un, which deals only in facts, has verified that 16 000 children have been horribly mistreated and concludes that this amounts to a war crime. in an ideal world, all war crimes would be investigated and prosecution cases developed as quickly as this one. but we don’t live in that world. how many palestinian children’s lives have been ruined and traumatised by israel in the west bank and gaza? how many yemeni children have been orphaned and starved? these are war crimes, too. but naming them in here makes you a voice in the wilderness. of course, the rank hypocrisy of the west is no justification for russia’s violation of the rights of thousands of innocent children and their families. and neither do russian crimes justify ours. the inconsistent application of justice is not justice: it just erodes the rule of law and makes might being right. there’s been a lot of triumphalism about the icc warrant, but there’s zero chance of that being served. russia, like the us, isn’t a party to the rome statute. there’s going to be no justice from that for the victim. the only way we can help the victims of this war is to use all our strength to bring it to an end and allow these innocent victims to rebuild their destroyed lives.
the chairman, mr. vice chairman, colleagues. today, there is more than enough evidence of the abduction of ukrainian children and their forced deportation to russia. russia is committing genocide against the ukrainian people, using helpless children. and that is an appalling cruelty. this is unjustified by any argument, because these are extremely serious war crimes and crimes against humanity, which must be punished with the severest of severities. an icc warrant must be executed. and it is hard to understand that a country like russia, which is committing such serious crimes, is a permanent member of the security council. i therefore call on the leaders of the european union to mobilize political support to remove russia from all international organisations, to establish as soon as possible a special tribunal for war crimes of aggression committed by russia and to bring to justice all those involved in crimes against ukrainian children and the ukrainian people.
mr. chairman, the arrest warrant for putin and maria alexeyevna lvov-belov is an important step towards punishing the crime. i want to thank all those who are contributing with all means and money to the investigation of russian crimes, because it is a clear signal that these crimes will one day be punished. what we can, or must do: we must do more, because every day for these kidnapped and russified children is long. we must support ukraine by all means in its resistance to russian aggression. we must support all international organisations and ukrainian non-profit organisations in their efforts to find these children and return them to ukrainian families. it's a big commitment, and i'm glad to hear a lot of support here across the political spectrum. we will continue until the only child remains in russian hands.
mr president, this month, the russian federation has the presidency of the united nations security council. the security council has primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. it is surely an extraordinary indictment of the un that its main body, the security council, charged with this cherished objective, is led by an alleged war criminal. that is why the icc arrest warrant is so important. putin now stands accused of operating and directing a large-scale, systematic network of camps and facilities holding thousands of ukrainian children in russian territory. and while it might seem a long shot that their warrant will be executed and that an arrest will follow, as soon as the warrant was issued, the world became a significantly smaller place for vladimir putin. and it may be our best hope that a future leader of russia will extradite putin in return for relief from sanctions and isolation, and that putin will be held accountable for his crimes.
mr president, war is horrific. the idea of the mistreatment of thousands of children is horrific and unthinkable. any war crimes that putin is responsible for, it is absolutely vital that he is held to account for them. just as those over 45 countries were part of the coalition of the willing in the illegal war in iraq, which led to the death of over a million citizens and the displacement of over 9 million. those who committed war crimes in iraq should be held accountable. in 2019, the then-chief prosecutor of the icc, bensouda, announced an investigation into israeli war crimes. the americans threatened her. later, she declared her intention to investigate us war crimes and taliban war crimes in afghanistan. they sanctioned her and revoked her us visa. benjamin ferencz, the last living nuremburg prosecutor, died two weeks ago. he once said there are some people who do not trust the rule of law and they prefer to use military power to achieve their goals. war will make mass murderers out of otherwise decent people. say no to all war.
president. - mr president, our toxic footprint is already reaching the highest mountains and the deepest ocean bottoms. we're even leaving pfas on the moon, mars and jupiter. this footprint will never go away. i am therefore glad that a ban on pfas is finally being worked on. this ban must be swift and must apply to all applications. no exception, for no purpose is worth permanently polluting the planet, all life on it, our food and our drinking water. that's exactly what this nasty group of toxins does. the review of the reach chemicals legislation is needed for a broad ban on all pfas before the summer. can the commission give that assurance? can the commission also promise to support the council's proposals to ban pfas from our food? i'd like a response.
madam president, the journalistic investigation "the forever pollution project" has revealed the frightening extent of contamination by pfas substances, which are synthetically produced, are toxic and persistent substances that have a multitude of applications. we can find them in everyday products, in the water we drink, in the clothes we wear, in the packaging of the food we eat, in the soil and in living things. the health consequences are serious and can cause a wide range of diseases, with associated health costs estimated at between eur 52 and 84 billion per year in the european union. reducing exposure to increasing concentrations of persistent pollutants is in line with the objectives of the european green deal and the sustainable chemicals strategy 2020. the proposal by some member states to restrict some 10 000 pfas substances is therefore a step in the right direction in the search for viable, safe and sustainable alternatives. and that is why it is important that the commission takes up this challenge and acts now to safeguard health and protect the environment.
madam president, 24 % of teenagers in france, in sweden 23 % of teenagers, in germany 18 %, in belgium 17 % of teenagers, in greece 14 % of teenagers are found to have excessive levels of pfas in their blood. pfas – most persistent human-made chemicals called forever chemicals for one reason: they remain in the environment forever. in poland, studies published by the science direct journal found pfas even in our milk, in our cottage cheese, in yogurt, in butter, and many others. so in the reach regulation revision, yes, commissioner, it is essential to remediate the existing contamination through the full banning of the use of all pfa production and use as soon as possible. thank you for your very concrete presentation and very concrete proposals and surely you have our full support in those endeavours.
i have to say, madam president, i can only start where my colleague from poland has just finished. they're chemicals that last forever. and who are the people in our society who are most exposed to it? they're our children. it is our young children in particular, those who walk on the floor in our homes, for example, where those chemicals accumulate in the house dust. we have seen in history: wherever we have looked, wherever we have actually looked - whether as a precaution or as a hindrance - at how toxic these chemicals are, whether they are carcinogenic, whether they cause organ damage, we find in the vast majority of cases that they are probably carcinogenic. at the same time, there are 4000 substances of this kind on the market, 4000 different ones, the vast majority of which have not been studied or tested. we need to regulate chemicals before the end of the mandate so that we can ensure that these products are tested under the precautionary principle before they are put on the market, before we put our citizens at risk. i therefore urge the commission to do so.
a uachtaráin, forever pollutants have been present in consumer products for decades. the risks that these chemicals pose to human health and our environment are of utmost concern. indeed, 84 % of europeans have expressed their fears regarding the impact of chemicals on their health. action is necessary to address these risks. like most aspects of policymaking, the revision of eu chemicals legislation will require us to strike a delicate balance between the costs and benefits of eu action. dangerous chemicals must be banned from situations that are harmful to human health and the environment. with this in mind, we should also remember that some of the chemicals which are used across many sectors play a key role in ensuring our well-being, as well as our access to modern comforts. chemistry and innovative chemicals will also play an important role in the climate transition. for example, certain chemicals can be used to improve the efficiency and longevity of wind turbines. revising the eu chemicals legislation would be a complex process, as commissioner mcguinness said. we should aim to arrive at a point that offers protection to citizens while ensuring we can access the innovative potential that certain chemicals offer. we must avoid harm while simultaneously reaping the benefits. science-based evidence will be key to addressing this question going forward.
madam president, as we have said, scientific studies on the effects of pfas on our health and the environment are piling up, and each one is more worrying than the last. i will mention a few: a recent study links pfas exposure to fertility problems in women, another shows that pfas in our food containers actually migrates into our food, and many other surveys show us that most european citizens are now contaminated with pfas at alarming levels. so, of course, i welcome the proposal for restrictions put forward by some member states, but there is an urgent need for action. however, these proposed restrictions would not come into force until 2026, or even 2027, with exemptions that could last for up to 12 more years. then it will be too late. we know that today, 75,000 tons of pfas are released into our environment every year. we therefore believe that, in the light of the scientific evidence, it is absolutely necessary to restrict and prohibit the emission of these pfas very, very quickly. banning uses is one thing; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat pollution. commissioner, you have said a lot about the revision of the reach legislation, but if it comes after the summer, it will be too late.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, plastic has become so cheap to produce, it has invaded every part of our lives, our seas, our soils, our environment. we now have a plastic waste problem so massive that everyone except those responsible for it has to pay to clean it up. similarly, when so-called pfas chemicals were discovered, industry started using them in absolutely everything. it does not matter that these toxic hazardous chemicals do not break down, but instead remain in our environment and even in our blood forever. again, people suffer the consequence as industry giants like dupont and bayer face lawsuits and court challenges. industry continues to lobby hard to resist an eu ban on these toxic, polluting chemicals. we cannot wait for industry to regulate itself. the market will not correct this so the eu and our member states must act, must step in right now.
madam president, forever pollutants, pfas toxins are a real concern both to people and our environment. and it is time now that the commission, in terms of its review of reach, should strengthen legislation to deal with this particular issue. not just in terms of strengthening legislation itself, but we also need to expand our capacity around evidence, around science, testing, sampling and analysing to ensure that we can detect the immediate impacts that these particular forever pollutants are having on the health of people and the broader environment. soil health, water health, food health and the health of wildlife habitats are consistently being degraded by the presence of pfas toxins in our environment. so we do need to act swiftly, commissioner, and i would urge that, in terms of the review, it would be swift and it would be robust in terms of dealing with what we need to do, which is to ban pfas production. and do not worry about the industries: they will respond to finding new ways of addressing the issues other than producing pfas which are poisoning and polluting our planet.
mr president, commissioner mcguinness, colleagues, the digital transformation of the financial sector creates new opportunities – challenges, but of course risks. in this landscape the digital euro endeavours to maintain the euro as a dependable and effective payment method. it can also boost innovation. other places are moving on and we should not be left behind. a digital euro can serve as a model for the rest of the world and support the international role of the euro. the ecb role’s is indispensable, but the voice of the european parliament must also be heard. and of course the digital euro has to maintain the trust of our citizens. privacy is a fundamental right, which is also why we should preserve the two—tier distribution model. however, we should go beyond this minimum standard and explore options such as using encryption to protect users’ data. we must also look at ways to make the digital euro economically attractive to customers, businesses and payment providers. issues of access to the financial system will remain important. physical cash, as many colleagues have said, will still have a role to play, so no one is left behind. trust, safety and access: these are the core principles that underpin our monetary system. it is our duty to create a digital euro that upholds these values while also promoting innovation.
madam president, commissioner, if you’re drunk and you vomit in a taxi in my home city of dublin, you pay the price: €160 to the driver as compensation for the damage that you have caused. that is fair and right. however, nitrogen dioxide emissions, largely produced by diesel vehicles, kill 64 000 people every year. so i ask when will car manufacturers pay for the damage of the dieselgate scandal? the icct tells us 16 million cars on european roads still carry pollution—cheating devices, even though they are banned in the eu. while car company profits soar, the health of european citizens suffers. how many recalls and fixes have been carried out? what actions are being taken by the commission? do you accept the icct’s findings that defeat devices remain widespread? eu rules are clear: corrective action by car manufacturers through recalls and fixes is an obligation, and yet action is minimal, sporadic and ineffective. if taxi customers pay for the damage, why aren’t car manufacturers forced to do the same?
mr president, i have listened carefully to the whole debate and i would also like to make a few comments on the european union's strategy for improving global health security. i applaud that strategy. it's very good that after the experience of covid-19, we are trying to prepare a global strategy to prepare preventively for possible future pandemics. it is not possible to solve health problems in the territory of national states alone, nor in the territory of the european union alone. i'm very pleased that we're taking on a global responsibility here for the third world as well. but it should be mentioned that the proposals contained in the strategy are sometimes too general, but mainly their implementation will cost huge amounts of money. and while i welcome the whole strategy, i must say that i have not learned much about the financing of the individual parts of the strategy. rather, they are general proposals about co-financing of individual measures, involvement of the private sector, and so on. i would like to see the strategy come to life, but i must point out that the financial resources for specific measures are lacking here and this may, in my view, be a problem. i also want to underline what some colleagues have said. let us also look at health systems within the european union and at the differences between health systems in the individual member states. here too, we can play a role in improving europeans' access to healthcare.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the eu global health strategy aims to ensure our health policies protect our citizens in the best possible way, and i welcome the health in all policies. a coordinated approach between eu member states serves our citizens best when it comes to health and social policy. however, it is fundamentally lacking, i believe, when it comes to the protection of our citizens mental health. our health services and facilities are not fit for purpose when it comes to addressing both preventative and reactive mental healthcare. in france, the incidence of depression has doubled in the years since the beginning of the pandemic, and the rates of attempted suicide are among the highest in europe. mental health care in poland is described as being in a permanent state of crisis. rates of death by suicide remain much higher in polish men compared to the eu average. in my own country of ireland, 1 in 10 adults have attempted to die by suicide. reports show in eu right now, the second-leading cause of death for our young people is death by suicide. across the eu, our spending on mental health remains low, and charities and civil society organisations have plugged the gap for far too long. if we are truly to protect people’s physical and mental health in the eu, strategies on health need to include such and finally end the underinvestment in mental health services and facilities.
mr president, the eu has repeatedly, again and again, promoted the interests of big pharma and trade at the expense of people’s health. predictably, then, the new eu global health strategy proposes no overhaul of the existing monopoly—based, market driven principles of healthcare provision and vaccine development. the eu should help and empower countries to set up publicly funded and publicly delivered healthcare. the eu should stop blocking countries from making their own medicines and treatments and should put patients before profits. the global south does not want more aid dependency. it wants vaccine justice and real equity in terms of healthcare access. we need future advance purchase agreements that guarantee downstream global access and affordability, as well as a transfer of manufacturing knowhow that ensures vaccines are a public good. it’s mind—blowing that the production of medicines is still treated as a money—making initiative instead of a life—saving initiative. we need to prioritise saving lives instead of protecting corporate and political interests.
mr president, the universal declaration of human rights states that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights, without distinction of any kind, regardless of their sexual orientation or gender identity. currently, as mentioned, there are 64 countries that have laws that criminalise homosexuality. homosexuality is already illegal in uganda, and last month we saw the parliament in uganda vote to strengthen anti—lgbtqi laws. members of the lgbtqi community in uganda now face up to life imprisonment. this bill is an assault. it’s an assault on freedom and human dignity, and seeks to further institutionalise discrimination, hatred and prejudice. this bill could also stigmatise hiv prevention efforts and criminalise people with hiv regardless – even if they’re heterosexual or, of course, homosexual. as an irish mep, i am reminded quite sadly that homosexuality was only decriminalised 30 years ago. it was an irish senator’s – senator david norris – landmark case at the european court of human rights, where it was ruled that ireland’s criminalisation violated the right to privacy in personal affairs. we as a european union must always stand for the protection of fundamental rights and the rights of lgbtqi people, both within the eu and across the world. enough is enough. i’m tired of saying this to an empty plenary, but i do hope our lgbti community in uganda and across those 64 countries hear us united on this.
mr president, what we are seeing in afghanistan is a tragic breakdown in women's rights. in little more than a year, afghan women have been fired from their jobs and removed from administrative roles, banned from playing sports and buying contraceptives, excluded from high schools and universities, and prevented from building a decent future. to deny girls access to education is a violation of human rights. it means denying hope to millions of young people. but not only that, these criminal regulations endanger the very lives of women. just think about their health: afghan women cannot be seen by male doctors, but if women are not allowed to study medicine, who can they turn to? i ask the european commission to support the organizations which are making great efforts to provide alternative educational services for young afghans. i also call on all the european institutions and member states to put pressure on the taliban to respect human rights. culture, knowledge and skills are the only tools that can enable the afghan people to rise from the economic and environmental crisis and the food emergency that holds the country hostage, and the contribution of women, again, is crucial.
i have to say, madam president, what is the motive of a regime that denies girls and women in its own country access to education? what is it that drives the rulers of afghanistan to behave in such a dehumanizing manner? a completely outdated gender concept, the fear of losing one's position of power, lack of self-confidence - something has to be compensated, i don't know, i can feel it. in the end, motives are irrelevant. that girls and women must ultimately have the right to develop freely, that's important. we grow through education. and we thrive, we evolve, and we make possible things that are dormant within us that are nurtured and brought to fruition through education. no education is not physical pain, but no education is also an offense to the overall development of every human being. that girls and women are denied this is both angry and sad. i also hope in the short term that we can really find ways and amplify alternatives that we can also use now to support informal education, and that the pressure on the afghan government is kept up. because the bearers of hope are the brave women and men and the representatives like matiullah wesa, who now have to be released from prison.
madam president, the us and nato destroyed afghanistan for 20 years, the end result being the return of the brutal taliban and, according to the un, almost 23 million facing life—threatening food insecurity and 9 million close to famine. while the us was ending its destructive war in afghanistan, politicians and the media were overflowing with concern for the afghan people. now that the us sanctions are adding to the mass suffering and debt in the country, they have lost interest. it was only a few months ago that the press and wider political establishment took part in one of the most brazen pro-war campaigns in recent memory to undermine and reverse a us withdrawal from the horrific war there. that push, we were told at the time, was because of political and media figures’ intense, overwhelming love and concern for the afghan people, particularly the women and girls relentlessly cited by people whose hearts suspiciously only started bleeding once there was a prospect of western bombs and bullets no longer killing them. the hypocrisy in this place is too bad.
madam president, in many countries, women and girls are denied an education, but only in afghanistan is this gender apartheid a deliberate policy implemented by the state in violation of international law, islam and all morality. it is, of course, an abomination that educators are arrested and those seeking an education hunted down, and we condemn it utterly, but can we get real here? these issues did not drop from the sky. in the 1960s and 1970s, before the soviet invasion and the subsequent western creation and support for the mujahideen, women and girls were equal and educated. we cannot ignore the decades of external interference which have got afghanistan to this place. it’s almost two years since the us withdrawal and the taliban’s takeover of the entire country. the strategy of ignoring them isn’t working. there’s a humanitarian crisis of catastrophic proportions; the economy is barely functioning; people are surviving on remittances; millions are stranded in iran and pakistan, and our borders are closed to them. this in a country where usd 300 million a day was spent for 20 years on war. that’s the origin of the present nightmare, and we have a responsibility to fix it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am reminded again and again of what commission president ursula von der leyen said in this parliament on 1 march. on 1 march last year, shortly after the start of putin's russia's war of aggression against ukraine, a hybrid war against us all, she said in this special session of the european parliament: 'we must extend our hand and let it be extended to the other russia'. we see now - and have seen in the past - that there is another russia, as there are the two men we are discussing today who were wrongfully imprisoned. and behind them are many others, thousands, maybe tens of thousands they are there. to those who commit these atrocities, who imprison innocent people, may we say that good will always prevail. and we are working to ensure that the time is short until good prevails and the criminals are also brought to justice. to those who are fighting for freedom, we are really reaching out. the free world, especially the european union, is behind you.
madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, opponents of putin’s regime are stopped in three main ways: by being killed, forced to emigrate or imprisoned. vladimir kara-murza was sentenced to 25 years in prison for criticising putin’s war against ukraine. such so-called crimes are normally awarded with distinguished prizes, including the nobel peace prize. but russia is an outlier of the civilised world, systematically trampling on common human norms and must therefore face our sanctions and embargo. i’m strongly convinced that the future of russia will be determined by vladimir kara-murza, alexei navalny and the other many politicians who are currently being brutally persecuted. we must do everything we can to preserve this hope and their lives.
aachtaráin, go raibh maith agat as ucht an seans a thabhairt dom mo ghuth a chur le guthanna in parliament ag caineadh what is ag tarlú sa rúis, especially when it comes to the case of kara-murza agus navalny. is léir nach bhfuil meas dá laghad ag putin ar aon duine the chinese is. they're just a bunch of russians. he was arrested and imprisoned for five years and five months, with a fine of one million dollars. vanity project is a soviet stalinist project. it's just that there are 180,000 soldiers in russia who have already died in the war and there's probably more to be found than those who have not yet died. caithimid stand the muintir in ukraine and in russia, chun libre to give don da thaobh agus deireadh a chur leis an mbaoth-thogra amaideach uafásach what is ag putin ussr stalin to athbhunú. nil can glacaint laws without.
madam president, dear colleagues, on monday this week, vladimir kara-murza was sentenced for 25 years in prison for alleged treason. his crime for this absurd sentence: speaking out and speaking for millions who disagree with putin’s war in ukraine and the escalating repression in the country he loved. let me remind you what vladimir had told us already back in 2017: ‘however strong the dictatorship and the repression, if enough dedicated people are prepared to stand their ground and stand up for their liberty and their rights and their dignity, they will prevail’. after hearing the verdict, he simply said ‘russia will be free’. one day it will be. russian citizens deserve it. stay strong, vladimir, we are with you. but it’s time for us, time for the european union to act and act now. tomorrow will be late.
madam president, prison does not work. nobody should be in prison unless they’re a danger to society when they’re out free. navalny and kara-murza should be released. the prosecution and attempted extradition of julian assange by the us government – who is in prison solely because he exposed us/nato war crimes – is also horrific. it also provides russia with illegitimate rhetorical justifications for its own repression of journalists. we call on russia to release navalny and kara-murza, and we call on the us and the uk to release julian assange. we call on the commission to appeal also for the release of julian assange. no one should be imprisoned for telling the truth.
madam president, it’s really impressive that the parliament has swung into action so quickly in relation to the case of anti-putin, anti-ukrainian war journalist vladimir kara-murza, who was given a 25-year prison sentence this week for his journalism, a sentence rightly slammed by the eu as outrageously harsh. it is, but it’s still 150 years less than julian assange will get if he’s convicted and prosecuted in the us for his anti-war journalism, exposing us war crimes in iraq and afghanistan. he’s been in prison for over four years, denied of his freedom for many more. yet we’ve never had one of these discussions in here calling for his release. we’ve never had one discussion about the case of pablo gonzález, imprisoned in poland for the last year for his anti-war journalism. unless we’re consistent in these motions then they are nothing more than meaningless geopolitical shams, the instrumentalisation of human rights for political ends. and that is not good enough.
madam chairman, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to also address the case of sharif aminou and also express my solidarity with this young artist who has been sentenced to death under the blasphemy law. a law that denies the most basic human right, which is the right to free speech. we must reject this clearly, and say clearly that it is not possible for anyone in any of the countries that are partners of the european union to be condemned for expressing his opinion in any way. a law that denies this is inhumane and contrary to human rights principles. nigeria is in breach of its international obligations. furthermore, it must be stated that in the case in question all procedural rules were violated, no appeal was lodged, and the accused and convicted were not allowed to cooperate with their lawyers. this is basically a judicial murder. this is something that nigeria cannot afford to let go of and we must protest against it unequivocally.
madam president, i would like to recall the memory of deborah yakubu, a 21-year-old nigerian christian student who was beaten to death last year after sharing on social media a message that was considered offensive to the prophet muhammad. as i speak, the fate of yahya aminu sharif is still uncertain. the 25-year-old singer, currently detained in a nigerian prison, was sentenced to death by an islamic court for a song deemed blasphemous. we can and must act. we, the european parliamentarians, call for his immediate release and that of all those detained for blasphemy. the nigerian constitution prohibits all state religion. its authority must be reaffirmed in the 12 states that have introduced sharia law since 2000. by abolishing the crime of blasphemy, nigeria, with its regional influence, could lead the way in africa and the muslim world. the crime of blasphemy kills. all over the world, it has to stop.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, this debate today is about freedom of religion and belief and the issue of capital punishment. the european union has a long—standing and very clear position on freedom of religion and belief, and this is a priority in the eu’s external human rights policy. in addition, the eu strongly opposes the death penalty at all times and in all circumstances. today, we are looking to nigeria, where all the eyes are on the case of mr yahaya sharif aminu, who has been detained since 2020 for blasphemy and was, as a result, sentenced to death. the eu has been closely following this case since the very beginning. the eu remains strongly committed to the protection of human rights in nigeria, with ongoing dialogue and support for different programmes. the eu has engaged locally and recommended the decriminalisation of these offences. the eu has advocated against the use of the death penalty, physical punishment or deprivation of liberties as penalties for blasphemy. the eu continues to call on the nigerian authorities to respect their international obligations on freedom of religion and belief. it is essential that nigerian citizens are able to exercise freedom of religion and belief. in the last human rights dialogue that took place in february 2023, the eu and its member states engaged with the nigerian counterparts on the issues at stake in this case. the eu will continue to call on the government of nigeria to put in place an official moratorium on the death penalty as a first step towards its abolition. at present, nigeria has largely respected the de facto moratorium on the death penalty. finally, the eu will continue to support nigerian human rights activists and civil society, as we do worldwide, because this is a fundamental principle of the eu. we hear from those activists that our support is important: important, be it through public statements, attending trials, financial support or meeting with them. these eu actions matter. we have taken a stand on this issue and we will continue to press our case in the appropriate manner.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held tomorrow. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! the deadly series of attacks that have swept through christian communities in benue state, nigeria, has added sadness to today's debate. the timing of the attacks on churches and worshippers at easter makes it clear that they are purely religious in nature and not conflicts between farmers, as is often portrayed. jihadist militias are thus still roaming the country. but that's not the only serious problem. in nigeria, religious communities have been hit dramatically by state prosecutions for blasphemy. this is often done on a discriminatory basis, targeting only members of minority religious communities or citizens who think differently. this is a particularly worrying trend in 12 northern nigerian states that adopted sharia law in the early 2000s. the constitution, however, prohibits the recognition of any religion as a state religion. proceedings based on content published on social media are increasingly abusing power over the vulnerable. in may 2022, for example, christian health worker rhoda jatau, a mother of five, was arrested on charges of blasphemy in the northern state of sharia bauchi and detained without trial. blasphemy laws and sharia provisions undermine human rights in nigeria, especially freedom of religion and freedom of expression. we must keep on the agenda that nigeria fulfills its international obligations towards all religious denominations!
the next item is the explanations of vote.
madam president, this law on deforestation is long overdue, but it is, of course, very welcome. fair play to the rapporteur, christophe, he did a good job defending the parliament’s position, which is a lot more ambitious than the council’s. the scope of the initial commission proposal had been widened to include rubber, charcoal printed paper products and certain palm oil derivatives. the definition of forest degradation has also been widened. the exclusion of scrubland and savannahs, however, is disappointing. now, the biggest problem with the final text, however, is the failure to require companies to ensure that goods are produced in accordance with international human rights laws and respect for indigenous people’s rights. european imperialism is responsible for the dispossession of indigenous peoples. post-colonial legal systems have never fully recognised the land rights of these people. it is crucial that this regulation protects those rights by adhering to international standards.
madam president, one of the tricks used to greenwash european capitalism is that so much of our environmental damage is outsourced to the rest of the world. we talk big about being sustainable within our borders, but we have to examine our supply chains and our global footprint. consumption here depends on extraction far away, and many of the products produced outside the eu are harmful, they drive deforestation, biodiversity loss, exploitative work practices and human rights abuses. now, this proposal aims to cut consumption of products from supply chains associated with deforestation. the regulation is a big deal and it will make an important contribution. despite the fact that member state governments went to every length to try and weaken this proposal in negotiations, we’ve still managed to hang on to strong commitments with the possibility of extending the scope. it’s not perfect, but it’s better than nothing. it’s late, but it’s better than never and i was very happy to vote for us.
i'd like to welcome you to the palace, but i can't support you. it's a huge country, and we're not going to risk it by breaking the laws in this country. isard is not a budget that is designed to give the citizens the opportunity to vote, but it is not without its own risk. as well as the laws, there are many other reports on military affairs. we're gonna throw in the towel and we're gonna be proud of them.
madam president, i voted against this file, it has a foreign policy section that is totally inappropriate. many days in here the discussion is marked by a delusional sense of self-importance which is disconnected from any reality. but i have to say that yesterday’s discussion on eu-china relations really beat all. people talked about unity while exposing division. they lectured china about peace while the eu is pumping arms into ukraine. they bemoaned chinese ‘provocation’ in taiwan, but said nothing about us interference in what is the internationally recognised part of china. how would spain react if the president of catalonia was a guest of the chinese government and the chinese navy sailed up the mediterranean? that’s the equivalent. can we please have some consistency? the issue is quite simple: the days of colonial domination by western powers are over. there’s a new non-white, non-western global order emerging based on international law, multilateralism rather than the dollar. and, of course, the us is panicking over the loss of its domination. but the question for europe is: do we want to be a vassal of our atlantic friends or do we want to have good independent relations with china, our biggest trading partner, who haven’t dropped a bomb on anyone in 40 years? it’s very obvious which is in the best interests of europe ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, we are totally opposed to this resolution. the eu is playing a destructive role by pushing third countries into camps of ‘us’ and ‘them’. this simplistic interpretation of the world never maps neatly onto entire populations, especially where there are religious and ethnic tensions. the resolution is condescending to moldovans, full of praise for the current pro-eu government, but painting those who oppose it and its policies as dupes of foreign disinformation not intelligent enough to come to an understanding of the dynamics of their own country. could it be that moldovans recognise that their neutrality is essential to the balance of powers that maintain peace; that president sandu’s economic reforms are deeply unpopular? could it be that moldovans can see that the gas crisis partly orchestrated by the government is exasperating the cost of living and threatens to inflame tensions between the central government and the breakaway state of transnistria? maybe the eu itself is one of the great challenges for moldova.
madam president, successive opinion polls in ireland have confirmed that the majority of the irish people are opposed to any dilution of irish neutrality. the very idea that we set up eu battlegroups is a clear violation of that neutrality. i am astonished that this house would be asked to promote qualified majority voting instead of unanimity when it comes to military matters, effectively asking irish meps to vote against an irish veto and vote against irish neutrality. we in ireland have a strong tradition of promoting human rights, international law and disarmament. maintaining a policy of military neutrality is consistent with these values and promotes peace and stability around the globe. that is why i voted against this report, and i urge members from across this house to respect irish neutrality.
madam president, i voted against this terrible report. we have eu missions where we misunderstand the local dynamics so badly, we end up exasperating the situation, while the local populations come to see the eu as the enemy. we have a habit of applying one-size-fits-all to entire regions because the aims are, above all, european ones: protecting europe from terrorism, combating illegalised migration and facilitating or protecting european investments. the 2013 sahel strategy, for example, made no reference to the fact that nato had just dismantled a state that, historically, had done most to promote and maintain stability in the region: libya. is anyone surprised that the mission is an unmitigated disaster? now we want to send 5 000 troops off at the drop of a hat. commissioner borrell has been candid that this force will possibly be used in boots-on -the-ground combat operations. brussels should not have a foreign policy, let alone command an eu army.
madam president, i voted against this report. in ireland we voted down the nice and lisbon treaties because we didn’t want an eu army. we were promised that there were no plans for one. those promises were lies. and if you want proof, you only have to read this so- called rapid deployment capacity, which of course isn’t an eu army, it’s just a permanently available, standing, multinational, modular eu force, including land, air, maritime components funded out of an eu budget under the full command and control of a permanently active eu headquarters, synchronised and aligned in the framework of nato. it’s going to be there for collective defence capable of rapidly deploying into future battlefields outside the union to protect the union’s values and interests, including non—permissive environments, which, as josep borrell made clear, means boots on the ground combat operations in countries where we are not welcome. then have the procurement, the logistics and all the rest of it. now i ask you, if that isn’t an eu army, what in god’s name is?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in its latest report, the ipcc denounces the inability of world leaders to limit global warming to + 1.5 °c, the target set by the 2015 paris agreement. half measures are no longer an option, he warns. but as he himself stresses, the answer must be provided on a global scale and not at the level of a single continent. the preparations for cop 28, to be held in dubai in november, are therefore needed to achieve this. i warn you against the temptation of the european union, under the commission's impulse, to pose as a model of virtue and unilaterally impose heavy sacrifices on the various peoples that make up it rather than negotiate global solutions. europe does not have to shoulder all the world's climate sins alone. sacrificing, for example, the productivity of european agriculture will not help if it leads to an increase in imports of non-virtuous agricultural products. the decline of the union's agriculture is not a solution but an aggravation of the problem. the continuous pursuit of european objectives will be in vain if we fail to convince the rest of the world to make efforts comparable to ours.
mr president, colleagues, the ability to spin in this room is astounding. so this morning we’ve heard a stream of political leaders taking the stand, all calling for urgent action on climate change and biodiversity loss. yet in the agricultural committee basic legislation to cut pesticide use and save pollinators is blocked at every turn, in the fisheries committee there’s pushback against the idea of ending bottom trawling in marine—protected areas, and even in the environment committee there’s pushback against the corporations who are using plastic and plastic packaging all around the place and are not cleaning up their mess. so the nature restoration law is a huge opportunity for us to be the first continent to give back more to nature than we destroy, for the benefit of all. so this house must stop the spin and genuinely speed up urgent climate and biodiversity action.
madam president, it really is beyond depressing to talk about climate crisis and how reluctant politicians are to do something equal to the challenge. while we’re obviously very happy that we are having this debate today on the latest ipcc report, it really would be a start if some people in here would sit down and read it, because if people did – and if they actually took on board what was being said – then we wouldn’t have a situation, which we’ve seen in here on countless votes, where we see this house watering down obligations, weakening targets, sneaky backroom deals from the catastrophic cap to the disastrous ets, all to push through bad legislation that serves big business. this will be our legacy, but there won’t be anybody around to appreciate it. so while the green deal isn’t lost, it is essentially on life support. the ipcc report really is the final plea for us to get our act together and redeem ourselves, and while we’re at it, we shouldn’t forget that the path of diplomacy is actually climate action. let’s have pens and conference rooms instead of bombs and jet fuel, because unless we take on board the climate impact of war, we’re really on a hiding to nothing.
madam president, another final warning from the ipcc. we’re running out of time. the scientists are hoarse from screaming. but who’s taking them serious? the green deal was a good idea, commissioner, a far cry from what was needed, but it was certainly a step in the right direction. but it seems many of its initiatives won’t see the light of day. where is reach? where is the soil health law? where is everything that was promised in farm to fork? we are witnessing the slow death of the green deal because of political cowardice, a death which has only been accelerated by the epp group, who seem to be on a rampage to guillotine the little bit of climate ambition that’s left. they harp on about protecting food security, but they should read the ipcc report. they might be surprised to learn that climate change is threatening our food security. it is about time we got our act together.
mr. chairman, i can see your slightly bored face, it's understandable. we have gathered 13 brave meps for this epic debate, but it is important nonetheless, and it is important because the theft of cultural heritage is indeed continuing in europe. you have countries like north korea, excuse me north macedonia, where the theft of cultural heritage continues, where the falsification of this cultural heritage continues and it is presented as something authentic, as something that has happened. history should be known as it is and cultural artifacts are part of that history. they show heredity, origin and consequences. it's been faithfully recorded in every single archive. and we in this parliament continue to pretend that we do not see the trafficking of these cultural assets, such as north macedonia, which i unintentionally but correctly called north korea. this is happening and it continues to be a substitution of cultural and historical heritage, this thing has to be stopped. commissioner, we are counting on you to wake up a little and i hope you will take a stand on this matter.
mr president, the protection of culture and heritage has been cited as the key reason for the eu action plan against the trafficking of cultural goods. obviously it would be very difficult for us to address the countries outside of europe who have stolen stuff from one country or another, but surely a good place to start would be if we insisted on all the european states actually returning the stuff that they have stolen from different countries. they say that 90% of the cultural heritage of africa is on display outside of africa at the moment in museums, mostly in europe. but also there’s been a huge theft in iraq during the war. there’s been huge theft in syria. there was a huge theft from egypt many years ago. and you see evidence of it in museums all across europe. we’re not going to be able to hold the people who stole it to account – a lot of them are dead – but let’s at least give it back. and there should be an onus on every state in europe to return what belongs to the state it came from. and just lastly, commissioner, i thought your speech this morning on the environment was excellent and fair play to you.
i thought you were very good as well, commissioner! mr president, beyond the human devastation from war, the annihilation of cultural wealth through looting and export really completes the tragedy and represents a crime, really, against humanity’s history. i remember being in babylon and meeting the guardian of that ancient site whose father and grandfather before him had been there, and he told the story of how he spoke out against the theft of artefacts by us soldiers who were stationed there, and the response was to kidnap him and hold him for a period of time. in 2021, some 17 000 objects were returned to iraq by the united states, which was welcome, but it represents a small amount of the massive theft of archaeological objects belonging to iraq which were stolen over the years of conflict. we’ve seen something similar in syria, with the dark web full of christian artefacts and other examples of syrian history. this is all of our history, and it’s really important that we do everything we can to protect it.
mr president, i welcome the economic governance rules published by the commission and i welcome the debate that will happen over the next period of time. i have been calling for some time for us to be flexible in our approach around the issue of unwinding from the emergency support packages that were put in place during the financial crisis and then the covid crisis itself. we simply have to accept that we are not just a monetary union and a trading bloc; we are also a union of people. and we need to ensure that when we are trying to bring ourselves back to fiscal discipline, that we do it in a way that doesn’t harm economies and cause social upheaval and damage to employment opportunities for people. that has happened previously in some countries during the financial credit crisis, so we have to be conscious that when we are bringing ourselves back in to fiscal discipline, that we observe the fact that we need to be country-specific in many areas to get to the 3% budget deficit and the 60% borrowing. otherwise, we will cause significant harm and damage to the political union as well as to people’s lives across member states. and we would undermine the concept of solidarity, which is something that we should all be supporting in this particular parliament around more vulnerable countries at the moment because of fiscal challenges.
mr president, good morning and happy europe day to all my colleagues and to the people of ireland and europe. it is appropriate that we are today discussing reform of a fundamental part of our european project – budgetary rules – to keep our economy and monetary union strong. it does require robust rules, but they must also be credible and credibly implemented. our citizens must understand and feel that their concerns and vulnerabilities in the present climate are understood and dealt with. rules must be more than symbolic, which is why reform is needed, and i acknowledge the commission’s work. we also must acknowledge, of course, the growing demands on our states, as we have seen in recent years, but also create mobility and opportunities for everyone. we need a framework that is simpler, more risk-based, and with an increased focus on the medium-term that will help implementation and enforcement, and we must promote investment in europe and, of course, debt sustainability. there are divisions, but i would say that achieving compromise is in all our interests. robust, realistic and credible budgetary rules will help us build a more secure economic union. happy europe day!
mr president, the eu commission’s redesign of the eu fiscal rules is very disappointing. the new fiscal rules, if agreed, allow more leeway to individual member states in how to spend their national budget. but there is a serious price to be paid. it’s worrying to read in the commission’s proposed document, delivered to parliament in november 2022, that one of the reasons for the easing of the rules is due to the fact that member states should be allowed to build up their defence spend. the proposal states as follows on page four: ‘the green and digital transitions, the need to ensure energy security as well as social and economic resilience, and to build up defence capabilities, will require sustained high levels of investment in the years to come.’ it seems the hawks and brussels have used the war in ukraine to incorporate defence spending into the new fiscal rules. this is shameful and should be called out for what it is: it’s called warmongering.
madam president, there are a number of eu institutions and bodies not covered by the parliament’s discharge process. however, what’s particularly concerning, but not surprising, is that the three agencies related to defence – the european defence agency, the european union’s institute for security studies and the european union satellite centre – are not covered. these agencies are audited by independent external auditors and do not depend on the european parliament’s discharge procedure. in their 2014 report, the court of auditors noted ‘although their source of revenue is not the eu budget, the revenue of these entities arises from the exercise of public authority at the eu level and their use of resources has the same public nature as other eu funds’. there is therefore no compelling reason for this different treatment. yet, nine years on, the different treatment continues. and at a time when defence spend is going off the richter scale in europe and promoting war has become a lot more fashionable than promoting peace, it’s about time that these were brought under the remit of the parliament and the court of auditors.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, colleagues, today is a monumental day. today, for the first time, the eu makes a legally binding commitment to combat violence against women. and i say well done to the swedish presidency. it just shows what you can achieve when you are politically motivated to get the right results. the statistics, as we have heard from arba and łukasz, are absolutely horrifying right across europe and the world indeed. and they continue to be. make no mistake: gender equality is at the very heart of our fundamental european values. and as we mark europe day to day, what better way to pay tribute to that core value than finally going to one of the key roots of gender inequality – this most heinous of crimes – and interrupting it and stopping it. the ratification of the istanbul convention will save the lives of women in europe. but of course it is all about implementation right across every member state. yet it is just the first step. it is my fervent hope that within a year we will mark another very important occasion in this battle by adopting the directive on combating violence against women and domestic violence. i hope that rape will be included in that directive. and i call in all the member states to ensure that it is and withdraw their objections. colleagues, we are finally beginning to take this fight seriously and putting more on the table than just words. let’s make this istanbul convention a reality for women right across europe.
madam president, commissioner, the situation of the civil war currently taking place in sudan, which is causing suffering, terror and mass displacement of the population, is deplorable. this is all the more so when we consider the regional impact which can be brutally aggravated if there is no rapid and concerted action by the international community. rapid action is needed to create the conditions for a consistent ceasefire and for a return to the negotiating table with a view to implementing the peaceful transition to democracy. a strong humanitarian response is also needed to help those displaced and crippled by war and to support humanitarian workers on the ground or who have to be evacuated. the realisation of partnerships between equals for freedom, peace and sustainable development is a path of hope for africa, the caribbean and the pacific, for the european union and for humanity as a whole. in the name of a multilateral and progressive vision in the new global order, i call on the conflicting forces for a swift cessation of hostilities in sudan. i also call for the post-cotonou agreement not to be used as a bargaining chip for national selfishness within the union. i would also like to ask the commission to make sure that the aid is commensurate with the current emergency.
madam president, the civil war between the two armed factions, that of the sudanese armed forces led by al-burhane and that of dagolo, the leader of the rsf, former friends, is causing a terrible humanitarian crisis - more than 500 dead, 4 600 wounded, internally and externally displaced persons, a completely stagnant economy, a shortage of food and drinking water, most of the hospital infrastructure destroyed. all this in a context where 65% of the population lives in extreme poverty. the risk of instability created by the crisis in the region is also mentioned. so we must urge all parties to respect international humanitarian law; ensure that the un human rights council, at its next special session on sudan, establishes a robust mechanism to investigate crimes committed by all parties; impose targeted sanctions on all those responsible for serious abuses against civilians; increase support for the humanitarian response to the crisis, in particular in the most challenging regions of the country such as darfur. but we also need to immediately stop the return of sudanese asylum seekers to sudan or to transit countries. and finally, we must support inclusive mediation initiatives on sustainable peace and rapid transition to democracy.
madam president, when omar al-bashir was overthrown in april 2019, the democracy that the people were calling for was replaced by the continuation of military rule by two key members of bashir’s regime: burhan and hemedti have been murdering pro-democracy protesters ever since. the opposition to burhan and hemedti is widespread, well organised, and their demands are clear: they want civilian rule and nothing to do with the military junta. but this didn’t stop the international community – mainly the un, the us and uk – from supporting renewed talks between the junta and the right wing forces for freedom and change coalition. the west were happy to legitimise a de facto military dictatorship because this is the arrangement that has served our financial interests and the interests of the imf and the world bank for many years. the green light given to the military takeover is what led to the recent conflict, and they know that whoever comes out on top will be the next golden boy for the west.
madam president, the western media shows two warlords, two rival military factions, ordinary people, frightened and fleeing, but nothing explains – no context, no responsibility. the european elites throw up their hands and wonder, how shall we swoop in and save the africans from themselves. but there is no mention of european funding, external border policies, the financing of state forces to round up desperate people migrating north to stop them reaching europe. we have removed our fingerprints from this disaster and we pretend it comes from nowhere. i agree that we need peace. but how? as usual, this isn’t about what we must do, but what we’ve got to stop doing. sudan needs civilian government. sudan needs economic justice. it needs an end to militarised extra-activism in rural communities driven by the circuits of western capital. that is the cause of the decades of instability and suffering in sudan. if we stop paying the warlords’ wages, maybe then the people of sudan would have a chance at civilian government.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, serbia is not committed to european values and never has been. you're wondering why she hasn't imposed sanctions on russia. you're wondering why he tolerates volunteers going into the wagner criminal militia. you don't understand how it's possible for the russian media, the propaganda media on serbian territory to broadcast freely. i'll tell you how it's possible. everything that russia is doing today, serbia has been doing for a hundred years, not only with weapons as 30 years ago, but also by stealing culture and the croatian language. just as moscow denies the ukrainian nation, so belgrade denies the multiple nations of southeastern europe. look at what they're doing to the croatian minority in vojvodina by creating an artificial rebel nation to eradicate the croats. you can give serbia billions, but it will still look to moscow because that relationship is part of their history, identity and political mindset. the entry of such a serbia into the european union would mean full membership of a small russia which would undermine this community from within in the interests of a large russia.
madam president, i have followed all the parliamentary reports on serbia since 2014 and it has always been a dynamic, intense and sometimes difficult political process. we have been able to follow the different phases, fluctuations and changes in the level of enthusiasm for enlargement in the commission and the member states. at the same time, it was typical for the european parliament to have been the eu institution that had been most determined to accelerate the accession process and to strengthen mutual trust and respect between serbia and the eu, which nevertheless never precluded the expression of sympathetic criticism when circumstances warranted it. however, mutual trust and respect are rare birds in this european parliament today, and i fear that this report, with its biased content and overly critical wording, will cause lasting damage to relations between serbia and the european parliament. the citizens of serbia deserve much better than this.
madam president, let me start by thanking vladimir bilčík and the shadow rapporteurs for the very balanced and comprehensive text. in particular, i would like to highlight the strong emphasis on countering the malign influence and hybrid threats from non—democratic regimes, particularly including the chinese communist party. the negative impact of chinese influence is increasingly felt in different sectors. chinese—made surveillance equipment undermines national security and people’s freedom. chinese corrosive capital continues to cause environmental damages, undermines good governance, and even the eu acquis passed down through the enlargement process. the growing influence of these regimes continues to negatively impact the future development of serbia and its neighbours. it is absolutely crucial for the european union to combine a sustainable alternative to chinese investment with the necessary political commitment to serbia’s – and the region’s – democracy and eu membership.
madam chairman, distinguished colleagues and commissioner, i hope you'll listen carefully. this is important. serbian foreign policy has a phrase "and after tito" "tito". people who are from the old yugoslavia will understand what i'm talking about. and now this policy continues, only it's not "and after tito" "tito", but "after tito" "milošević", then "vučić", then "dačić". the same foreign policy of denial of nation states, of carrying out the comintern line, a line of creating false nations, of denial of real nations, of oppressing those nations within serbia, of oppressing national minorities. you should know, fellas, i don't have time to give you history lessons, and i don't need to. if you haven't understood these things before, you never will. but this serbia has never been european and will never be european. i understand that some socialists here have a nostalgia for milosevic, for tito. they were socialists, but no, they were national socialists, not socialists. this serbia that you support is actually laughing at us behind each and every one of your backs, is pursuing a policy of genocide, is pursuing a policy of denying national minorities and is pursuing an anti-european policy in fact. dear socialists, think about these issues. it's useful!
madam president, serbia entered the new century in ruins. the gdp was half what it was in 1989. civilian industrial capacity and public works were devastated and an estimated 600 000 jobs lost. nato’s bombing had been brutal. economic reforms and privatisation in the early 2000s saw the riches of the country go into the hands of a small group of corrupt war profiteers and international investors. with tactic support from brussels and washington, the 2012 elections brought some bad figures to power. they went on to inflict crushing neoliberal reforms on the public sector and changing labour laws to expand precarious work. once again, foreign investors were cleaning up. sick of waiting for the promise of europe, the country hollowed out by neoliberalism, hundreds of thousands of young serbs have left for a better life. commissioner, the eu has a problem with the fact that serbia has taken a neutral position, when they have condemned the war. they’re not taking russia’s side, even though they’re a long—time partner. they’re staying neutral, but so are 80% of the world’s population. the eu should stop the ‘you’re either with us or against us’ scenario and start respecting people who want peace and who want to stay neutral.
i would like to begin by expressing my condolences to all the victims of the recent shocking killings in serbia and to thank my colleague mr bilcic for his report on serbia's progress. almost all the amendments i made to the report were accepted. however, the key problems we have identified still remain here and i would like to ask the question whether the authorities in serbia are really listening to us, commissioner. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we've all talked about it, it doesn't exist. especially when it comes to sanctions against russia and relations with kosovo, the high level of corruption, the state of human rights, not to mention specifically the state of media freedom, organized crime and the prosecution of war crimes. as for my country croatia which was under fire from the serbian aggressor, we are still looking for the 1812 missing persons from the homeland war. in addition, for us, the issues of compensation for the inmates of the serbian concentration camps and the withdrawal from the procedure of the so-called law on regional or universal jurisdiction remain of extreme importance. ladies and gentlemen, does serbia want the european union as an atm or does it want its own transformation...
madam president, for over a decade, the eu has dangled membership to coax serbia through a hoop of market reforms. serbia voted at the un to condemn the russian invasion. they voted to expel russia from the human rights council. but for some fanatics in here they are actually pro—russian because they had the audacity not to impose eu sanctions on russia – a decision that was patently in the interests of their citizens, a policy which has backfired actually on eu householders. meps in here want to use the accession process to extort changes in foreign policy from sovereign serbia. it’s actually called foreign interference. so would you ever back off? the report moans about russian propaganda making inroads in serbia. is it any wonder? telling a population with close, historic and cultural ties to russia that it’s our way or the highway – is that supposed to actually make friends? serbia is entitled to have good relations with russia as it is with the eu. why do they have to choose? you know, people in here should learn the lessons of history. if you force them to make a choice, they might not make the one you want.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, first i want to thank the rapporteur, viola von cramon-taubadel, for her report on kosovo, and this house for its continued support to the western balkans. last month, the european parliament completed the legislative process allowing visa-free travel for kosovo’s citizens. the commission welcomes this long overdue decision. from the 1st of january next year, kosovo’s citizens will be able to travel without any visa requirements. finally, all western balkan 6 have visa-free access to the eu. this is another positive signal to the whole region and another commitment that the future of the western balkans lies within the european union. alignment with the eu common foreign and security policy has never been more important. kosovo’s government has taken clear positions by condemning russia’s military aggression against ukraine and by aligning with the eu statements and sanctions against russia and belarus. we welcome this clear commitment with the eu values and positions. kosovo continues its efforts to deliver on eu-related reforms, including in key areas such as the fight against corruption and organised crime. as highlighted in the commission report from last year, in the area of the fight against corruption, there is a need to improve the implementation of the overall legal framework. sustained efforts are needed to achieve more productive investigations, final court decisions and final confiscation of assets. regarding organised crime, the commission report stipulates that limited progress was made in investigating and prosecuting organised crime cases. we would also like to see a faster pace of reform, including at the assembly, which has a critical role to play in advancing the government’s eu agenda. we welcome kosovo’s efforts to improve the efficiency, integrity and professionalism of the judiciary. at the same time, from the commission’s side, we also underline in our report that the overall administration of justice continues to be slow, inefficient and vulnerable to undue influence. as you also note from the report, these efforts should respect the venice commission’s recommendations on the matter, which we have welcomed. the commission stands ready to continue our cooperation with the authorities on this important issue and provide further technical assistance. on the economic front, the eu and kosovo are facing common challenges: energy and other commodities, inflation and concerns about the future. as the commission highlighted in its report, kosovo made some progress on the economic criteria, and it is at an early stage of developing a functioning market economy. the economy demonstrated resilience during the pandemic. nevertheless, the long-standing structural challenges such as the widespread informal economy, the high prevalence of corruption and the overall weak rule of law continue to hinder the private sector. the energy sector remains also a cause for concern, not only for kosovo, but for many of our partners in the western balkans. to help the region deal with the energy crisis, the commission has put forward a eur 1 billion energy support package for the entire western balkans. as part of this package, kosovo receives eur 75 million in direct budget support. more funds will become available to support kosovo as it steps up its green transition. in this context, we welcome kosovo’s adoption of its energy strategy for the next ten years. we remain committed to help kosovo in every way we can, including through our financial assistance. kosovo needs to increase its efforts to take full advantage of the opportunities offered under the economic and investment plan for the western balkans and ipa iii. for these investments to deliver fully, we need the region to push ahead with building a common regional market. we welcome the three mobility agreements reached in the framework of the berlin process at the end of last year. however, we need kosovo to engage constructively in regional cooperation initiatives in order to make further progress possible. when it comes to the belgrade-pristina dialogue, progress has been made over the last year. in february and march, kosovo and serbia agreed on a normalisation agreement and an implementation annex to it. it is now essential that both parties implement all their obligations without delay from this agreement. as it was stated by the european council in february 2023, so this year, and i quote, ‘the european council urges both parties to implement fully and without conditions the obligations they committed to in the framework of the dialogue, including the agreements from the years 2013 and 2015 to create an association/community of serb majority municipalities.’ the key is for kosovo to engage constructively, and as the eu special representative for kosovo and serbia dialogue has highlighted, the draft of the management team is the starting point for further discussions about the association. normalisation is key for both to advance on their respective european path and will also contribute to the stability, development and prosperity of the entire region. let me end on this note: kosovo and the entire region belong in the european union. they are part of the european family, and we will stand by kosovo on its journey to europe.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have become alarmingly aware on european soil of the difference between the aggressor and the aggressed, between the aggressor and the victim, in war. it is important in the history of europe, even when we are talking about the republic of kosovo, to see that this is a country that had to free itself, that had to pay a high blood toll for its very existence. and what is all the more surprising and beautiful is that it is the kosovar men and women who, according to all the studies that have been done in the western balkans, have the greatest confidence, the greatest optimism, the brightest vision of the future, in a way. these are the kosovars. they applied for eu membership last december 2022, and they will finally be able to travel visa-free on january 1, 2024, as other europeans in the european union have been able to do for a long time. this is not a cause for celebration, but a lesson. and the lesson we have to learn is that it seems to take far too long on the bureaucratic path to make such obvious decisions. it's taken too long with the visa waiver. it cannot be that long with eu membership. kosovo has the euro, kosovo has the youngest population in europe, kosovo has the best rule of law and democratic standard in the western balkans. kosovo has a great future, confidence, freedom of religion, one of the most modern constitutions in the world. so, commissioner, i ask you not to talk about both sides any more when it comes to dialogue. i ask commissioner borrell and commissioner lajčák not to talk about both sides any more when it comes to kosovo and serbia, but to see clearly that kosovo is on the road to european integration.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, the european parliament progress report on kosovo is an encouraging and positive reflection of the country’s commitment to the euro-atlantic community and its efforts towards reform. and thank you, viola von cramon, for your very balanced and accurate report. over the past years, kosovo has made significant progress in implementing its reform agenda, which is a testament to the hard work and dedication of the government and the people of kosovo. one particularly noteworthy achievement is the population’s successful efforts to secure visa liberalisation. and i commend kosovo and the authorities, but foremost, the citizens of the country. this important step is a clear indication of kosovo’s determination to integrate fully into the european community and demonstrates the significant progress made in improving the country’s democratic institutions and rule of law. furthermore, kosovo’s ongoing efforts towards reconciliation with serbia through dialogue should continue. these discussions are critical to building lasting peace and stability in the region, and i commend the continued commitment of both kosovo and serbia to continue with this process. kosovo is among the countries in the region where the eu integration process enjoys strong support among the citizens and all political actors, and in the past years, it was clear that the country is unwaveringly committed in supporting the democratic values. we should encourage kosovo to continue its efforts towards reform and dialogue, and i am looking forward to celebrate new moments with the country.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. kosovo is part of the eu. the recent decision on visa liberalisation is an important and long overdue step in this direction. this will allow kosovars to travel to the eu for 90 days without a visa from next year. this is a great success, and i am particularly happy for the many young people in kosovo. the european union is also committed to the development of the kosovo peace process, and to the peace process in kosovo. although both sides agreed to an agreement at the end of march, serbia refuses to sign it. serbia recently voted against kosovo's membership of the council of europe. this attitude of serbia is anti-european and clearly shows that nationalism wants to undermine european values.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, is there a more pro-western and pro-european community in europe, a more pro-european and pro-western society, than in kosovo? and yes, the people of kosovo deserve their efforts to be supported. and the people of kosovo deserve to have the negotiation process started faster and to be part of the european union. there is no doubt about it, and they should be encouraged. in this respect, the delay in visa liberalisation was a mistake and continues to be a mistake that weighs heavily and poisons the prospects of pristina society. of course, we must not forget and we must not leave the serbian provocations in kosovo without consequences. none of you mentioned this thing. the serbian side continues to make provocations in the north, to try to use its community there to somehow blow up in the interest of both russian interests and in the interest of the kosovars and kosovo not being part of the european union. but this must be stopped and a more serious response must be made as soon as possible. the republic of kosovo and the kosovars deserve to be part of this union.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, the forced integration of kosovo into the european union is a disaster that has already cost european taxpayers €1.2 billion over the last 15 years. you are constantly talking about your so-called values of the european union, values which we know are only valid when it suits you. the european union, on orders from washington, has allowed kosovo and metohija to be wrested from serbia by an international coup d'état, using depleted uranium bombing of the serbian population. the same european union is now showing a keen interest in kosovo's integration, making big phrases about the right to self-determination to legitimize its secession from serbia. but not a word about the fact that the serbian people are in kosovo, their historical birthplace, that there is still a serb majority population in the north, victims of marginalisation, bullying and attacks. in that case, the right to self-determination no longer exists. the so-called values of the european union are collapsing in the face of a criminal and mafia pseudo-state gangrenous with islamism, which you have made your darling child. the liberalization of visas on 1 january 2024 is the last gift you gave him, a poisoned gift to the member states of the european union which will suffer even more from the crime of the kosovo gangs. in addition to all this, you are trying to dictate serbia's foreign policy and strategic commitments in ignorance, contempt and aversion to what has been the ferment of its deepest identity for several centuries. kosovo, in the end, embodies your policy: the dissolution of nations, the benevolence towards big crime and radical islamism, the migration flood and above all the establishment of your anti-national autocracy.
madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, we must be explicit. to move forward on their european path, it is essential for both kosovo and serbia to abandon provocative language and hostile actions, leaving space for concrete efforts to reach mutually acceptable and negotiated solutions. the road towards eu integration will require difficult decisions and compromises, and it is crucial for both belgrade and pristina to start thinking in the long term and focus on the larger goal of a european future. our contribution to these efforts is clear. we must be firm in our commitments and continue to do our best to prove the clear benefits of eu membership. to do so, i believe it is essential to reinforce and to find synergies of action between the eu initiatives for the region and the other bi or multilateral fora. and i would like to thank the colleagues and the rapporteur that supported my amendment in both reports in the committee. therefore, colleagues, i urge you to support the excellent job of the rapporteur in this report to recognise the progress made and to encourage both pristina and belgrade to continue their efforts towards finding solutions that will ensure a stable, prosperous european future for their citizens because they are the future members of our european family.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, viola von cramon, and the shadow rapporteurs on their report. i am pleased that my amendments on the issue of the status of minorities in kosovo and the need for normalisation of relations between kosovo and serbia to progress in their european integration have been included in the final text of the report. the recent application by kosovo for membership of the european union has confirmed the pro-european orientation of their citizens and their strong desire to join the european family, and the long-awaited decision on visa liberalisation has further strengthened our relations with each other. today is a special day and i congratulate the janjevci, the croatian national minority in kosovo, who are celebrating the 720th anniversary of the first mention of the city of janjevo. i hereby call on kosovo to step up its efforts to improve the status of its national minorities and to protect and promote their cultural heritage, languages and traditions, and above all their security. similarly, at this point it is crucial to continue the dialogue with belgrade in order to increase mutual trust, overcome the international divisions and normalize relations between the two countries.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur and his colleagues for the good report and also for the necessary updates by the rapporteur, which i wholeheartedly support. i am of course also delighted, incredibly delighted, that kosovars will finally be able to travel visa-free from 2024. a long-awaited historical milestone, but the route to it was awkward. we have abandoned kosovo for too long. while the country worked hard, was patient, it did not receive the recognition it deserved from the eu. it sometimes seems that if you are a politician in the western balkans and you are very blunt and deliberately destabilise, then the eu will reward you. the world upside down. but let this report and visa-free travel be the prelude to a new chapter: the eu integration path of kosovo. the inclusion of all the countries in the region in the european family - and therefore also of kosovo - contributes to stability and the prospect of a good future for all there, but is also in the interest of the eu as a whole and of our continent, which we share.
madam president, commissioner várhelyi, high representative borrell, an agreement that is not signed is neither a success, nor is it a binding agreement. president vučić refused to sign the ohrid agreement and, in reaction to this, president kurti also refused to sign. and already we see the resistance and the blockade of serbia when it comes to the accession of kosovo to the council of europe. but i want to also back the call of this report towards the non-recognisers within the european union: towards spain, romania, slovakia, cyprus, malta and greece. kosovo is an independent state since more than ten years. your refusal to recognise is only based on domestic affairs. so i clearly call you to not uphold your blockage. you’re only encouraging serbia in its course of conflict. and if this is not what you want, finally recognise kosovo as the independent state it is.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i would like to begin by thanking the commissioner, who is a professional and is doing a really good job with this eu perspective, not only for kosovo but above all for the other western balkan countries, because i am sure that other countries will join the union much faster next year. i do not want to talk about the mistakes of the union, about the fact that we have lost a few years when it comes to the accession of countries such as macedonia, serbia and montenegro in particular. let's talk about kosovo. well, i wanted to be clear: there is a question of solving certain problems that are in this country, such as corruption, a question of solving bilateral problems between kosovo and serbia. these are things that are serious challenges for our partner. and let's not pretend that these challenges don't exist. we must set conditions, we must demand certain changes, including in the country's anti-corruption legislation.
madam president, commissioner, the future of kosovo is international recognition and europe. the efforts being made by kosovo society and institutions deserve more of both: more international recognition and more europe. unfortunately, there are still eu countries that do not recognise kosovo. some of them, like spain, for reasons that have nothing to do with kosovo, but with catalonia. they do not want to recognise the legality of a unilateral declaration of independence. that is why spain is the only country in the schengen area that will not apply the visa exemption approved by the eu. soon we will have an eu council presidency that will have to defend a policy on kosovo that the president does not apply to himself.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for this report. it wasn't easy, it was a long process, and what was concluded we all see. first, the normalisation of relations between kosovo and serbia, and hence the mutual recognition, is essential to ensure the european future of both countries. i welcome kosovo's application for membership of the european union and the commissioner has spoken about it, but what is important is the continued pro-european orientation of its citizens and the majority inter-party consensus on integration into the european union, as well as a clear geostrategic political choice. kosovo has also demonstrated its commitment to european integration by implementing reforms in key areas. when i mention it, it's the rule of law, human freedom and progress in media freedom. however, although progress has been made, kosovo faces a number of challenges, the need for further strengthening of institutions, reforms, improvement of the social and economic situation in kosovo. i therefore call on kosovo to continue its efforts towards european integration, and i believe that it has a sincere friend in the european parliament. and of course, i welcome the long-awaited visa regime, namely the liberalization of the visa regime for the citizens of kosovo.
madam president, colleagues, despite losing the war, serbia would still want kosovo territory and would still want to reduce the rights of albanians to a minimum. instead of promoting peaceful coexistence in northern kosovo, serbia is deliberately promoting intolerance, division and instability. kosovo as an independent state is in a difficult position and deserves our support. unfortunately, some mps have an ideological agenda that is more important, so they tell kosovo if you want to join the european union, legalize same-sex marriage and implement the istanbul convention. the biggest absurdity is when it is demanded from kosovo, say, by spanish socialists who form a spanish government that does not want to recognize kosovo. and the question is how can you make such demands to a kosovo government that you believe has no legitimacy whatsoever. the european union in the case of kosovo should show more credibility and stop favouring serbia. kosovo should be recognised by all member states and the european institutions should stop interfering in matters beyond their control
madam president, anyone reading this report would think that nearly all of kosovo’s problems have magically vanished. it glosses over the claims of irregularities in the elections, it passes over the tensions and violence, it minimises kosovo’s shortcomings in terms of both rule of law and corruption, while at the same time going full—on in terms of the structural reforms which will create a safe space for western capital at the expense of kosovan workers. nato’s presence and role in the country is ignored, while at the same time calls for accelerated euro—atlantic integration without any concern for the geopolitical ramifications of that are pushed. in fact, it’s explicit that the policy is geostrategic rather than in the interests of the people of kosovo. and also it ignores completely the position of five eu member states who do not recognise kosovo. that’s disregarded. so what we have then is rather than attempting to have a viable approach to the kosovan–serbian question, we have a never—never land unworkable position on kosovan accession. grand, but let’s not pretend that it is anything to do with the real world.
on behalf of the ecr club. mr president, the countries of the european union do not have sufficient production of military equipment, especially ammunition, and we have seen this now with the russian aggression against ukraine and this is not good. croatia in the homeland war clearly saw that only diplomatic efforts are not enough and that we must be ready to defend ourselves and defend our borders, our freedom, our people and our culture. that's why i support this joint procurement bill because it will reduce the cost of military equipment, but we need to increase our own production and that's why i think this planned budget is still too small. and we should not forget smaller countries like croatia, which has long defended the western christian world throughout history, and today defends the external borders of the european union and schengen, in a very dynamic part of the world. in all of this, nato will certainly be the main pillar of european security, but we also need to strengthen cooperation and partnership with south korea and israel, which are world leaders in the military industry. so we don't want to escalate global conflicts, but we have to be prepared to defend ourselves militarily.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the sovereignty of france, like that of nations, is not negotiable. even if the european instrument edirpa, which is a system for the joint acquisition of arms, remains for the moment limited in its scope and financial volume, it nevertheless creates a perspective that we cannot accept. the french defence industry, its patents, the rafale, the leclerc tank, our nuclear strike force, are the result of the work and the merit of our research. we do not intend to transfer this expertise to third countries. in this respect, it is welcome that emmanuel macron, always anxious to be the good pupil of the european union, has been humiliated by being thrown out of the european tank project. macron loses, but french sovereignty wins. secondly, at least as much as the text, it is the context that raises all our concerns. edirpa is openly part of a prospect of a massive and continuous arming of ukraine, and therefore a deliberate desire to ignore the possibility of negotiating a way out of this dramatic conflict. but there can be no other way out than to risk a stalemate or an extension of the conflict which could prove to be the greatest danger for the peoples of europe.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, tomorrow, parliament will vote to hand over further hundreds of millions for arms procurement – eur 300 million for edirpa up to the end of december 2025. this is on top of the asap deal voted in july, approving eur 500 million for ammunition over the same period. the arms industry lobbyists have much to celebrate. and the war grinds on, killing hundreds of thousands and wiping out a generation of ukrainian men. but the numbers are in: 2022 was a bumper year for the merchants of death. arms industry profits are up and share prices are flying. it seems it’s our job to make sure the war will keep on giving and the subsidies keep flowing. the european commission is even planning another proposal for the arms industry, a european defence production act, to boost the bloc’s defence industrial base. how many dead civilians and soldiers will it take before we stop fuelling the mayhem? is there a limit or is it really just a case of profit before people?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, what we are discussing today is an essential tool for remedying the annual fragmentation that is plaguing the european defence market, which, according to the latest figures, is causing an unacceptable waste of resources and inefficiencies estimated at between 26 and 130 billion euros per year. edirpa is a response to what many in this parliament have often called the missing pillar in the process of european defence integration, namely the joint procurement of defence equipment. edirpa is the next piece in a mosaic of instruments that work in synergy with each other. in the medium term, it will be necessary to bring all the various initiatives together under a single holistic and comprehensive framework, the edip. only then can we move towards a genuine europeanisation of the defence and security sector: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. ladies and gentlemen, in these uncertain and threatening times, history has brought us face to face with a new challenge: we must either continue along the path of integration or we will be powerless against the work of other international actors. we must decide to decide if we do not want events to decide for us. time is of the essence. that is why we must vote yes to edirpa and yes to a defence europe.
madam president, so here we go again. the latest in a barrage of new defence splurges, on top of the billions we’re already blowing on military research and production, we now have another 350 million on military procurement. the priorities could not be clearer. there’s never enough money for health, for housing, for education or public services. working people have to tighten their belts. but as the act shows once more, there’s always money in the bank for bombs and bullets. if it’s more shells and missiles and cluster munitions and depleted uranium, money’s no object. we can always come up with a couple of billion, so working class people over here can go over and kill working class people over there. well, you’ll never have our consent for that. the security we demand is the security of a decent job and a place to live. the defence we want is a defence of our rights, even as those rights are attacked by the governments of europe and even as you sign up to bankroll slaughter. we reject a europe that robs from the poor to boost the profits of the arms industry. militarisation is never the answer.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for all your contributions. the commission appreciates that there is a consensus on the need to step-up efforts to support ukraine and adapt our defence industry to the new challenges the european security faces. edirpa is a limited action in budgetary terms, as we are all aware, but its importance should not be overlooked. as mentioned in the introduction, for the first time ever, the eu budget will support cooperation between member states in the procurement phase – in terms of advancing european defence integration, this is a major step forward. moreover, edirpa is not an isolated initiative, but echoes other initiatives announced in the joint communication and the asap regulation. together, both measures will inject eur 800 million into european defence, strengthening its resilience. they complement the european defence fund, which is already implementing and creating new cooperation between the defence industry in europe on rtd projects. research and development, joint procurement, direct support to the industrial ammunition production base – the eu budget now has a very clear role to play in consolidating our european defence ambitions. the commission appreciates parliament’s unwavering support in this direction for more cooperation, more efficiency in the european public spending and more collective resilience and, above all, for a more secure europe. supporting edirpa tomorrow will be a strong signal of our determination to do so.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. there is a german proverb that says: "the most pious cannot live in peace if the evil neighbor does not like it". and we have a bad neighbor. he's not only evil, he's a criminal, killing men, women, children every day. and the workers in ukraine would rather do their jobs than defend their country. but they don't want to go back to the gulag. that's why they have to take up arms. so it's only right that we support them in this. and if we have a bad neighbor, then it's also right that we fight back. and because we have limited resources, it makes sense that we use economies of scale. it is when we procure together, when we also plan together in advance and then also practice together and then also are interoperable together. that is why it is good that we have brought this regulation here now, that it is being adopted now. it is part of a policy that is being imposed on us. none of us had any intention of permanently increasing the defence budget here. but we don't see this russia behaving in any way that it would be european-compatible in the sense that it would accept its neighbours and their rights. and we cannot accept that. i am therefore grateful that we will have a very broad consensus here tomorrow, apart from the margins. but here again, the old french saying is true: les extrêmes se touchent. unfortunately, they're communicating with the help of a war criminal who's in the kremlin. it's very important that we stand together and support ukraine. i was in kiev this weekend. i saw the many thousands of banners on the maidan, each representing a dead man. it's just horrible to watch. this must be stopped by ukraine winning this war and russia being expelled from this country. i'm going to the hospital.
the rapporteur. the edip is, of course, only one element of the new strategy to support the defence industry and to provide ukraine with arms so that it can maintain its freedom and independence. but this new strategy is only the beginning of the sobering and realistic recovery that i hope will follow the european elections next year. the new policy must be based on the lessons that have been learned from this war, such as: first, russia is not a partner, but a threat. the european elites have largely, largely been deceived and corrupted. europe's security can only be built in cooperation with the united states, not against it. europe's security in the east is guaranteed by a strong poland. europe is the strength of its member states. you can't be a major player in international politics without strong industry and military capability. and here, in this discussion, i would add that we've seen three extremes. the extreme left, the rejectionists, who have converged on the right, but unfortunately also the extreme centre, which is already thinking about a european army, whereas, as i said, i believe that europe is strong and can only be strong through the strength of its member states.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held tomorrow, tuesday 12 september. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the russian aggression in ukraine, which has lasted for one and a half years, highlights the need to strengthen our own defence industry. the objective of this regulation is to strengthen the european defence industry by encouraging member states to cooperate in defence procurement. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. i support the idea of cooperation at european level in defence procurement. joint procurement ensures that systems work well together when necessary and that as production increases, average costs decrease. it is also important that the support of the member states and the rest of the international community for ukraine remains strong for as long as necessary, that is until russian troops have been pushed back to their own borders.
in writing. strengthening the industrial base of defence and intensifying cooperation in this field through joint procurement are necessary for the strengthening of european defence as a whole. the regulation contributes to the promotion of the competitiveness and efficiency of the european defence technological and industrial base (edtib), as well as to cooperation between member states, to the reduction of existing fragmentation, to the enhancement of interoperability and to the ability to meet the most urgent needs for defence material. i welcome the fact that the budget has been increased compared with what was originally envisaged. i also strongly support the possibilities for additional support for projects in support of ukraine and moldova and for projects involving smes and so-called midcap companies. finally, i would like to remind you that this is a short-term legislative initiative and that the same effort will have to be made to promote long-term defence development and joint procurement projects, in particular the european defence investment programme (edip).
the next item is the debate on the report by milan brglez, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on surface water and groundwater pollutants (com(2022)0540 – c9-0361/2022 – 2022/0344(cod)) (a9-0238/2023).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, good afternoon. pollution is a major pressure on water and biodiversity. it affects life in rivers, lakes and seas, and our ability to use this resource for drinking water or irrigation. as droughts become more common, we cannot afford to pollute the waters that remain. this debate on a key deliverable in the zero-pollution package is therefore very timely. many of these issues can be addressed through more integrated water management and by revising the list of water pollutants and modernising their quality standards. let me start by thanking the rapporteur, mr brglez, who has led a very inclusive discussion together with rapporteurs of the agri and itre committees and this approach has secured very broad support in the envi committee. and such a strong backing reflects the very high concern that the european parliament continues to show for water, as also witnessed in the plenary discussion on the water crisis in june. you have my sincere gratitude and respect for this stance. i very much welcome this supportive and ambitious report. the proposal is based on the latest scientific knowledge, including advice from the scientific committee on health, environmental and emerging risks. it is the result of the extensive work with stakeholders and experts from the member states who looked closely at which pollutants to include and the appropriate quality standards. in the face of new emerging threats and compelling toxicity evidence, we propose an expansion of the list of pollutants. a group of pfas and other industrial substances, pesticides and pharmaceuticals have been included. standards for some pollutants already listed have been tightened. for a few others, where science shows they are now less of a problem, standards should be relaxed. we know a lot about pollution, but in some cases not enough. and this is why we have strengthened the watch list mechanism with a preparedness system to generate better data, enabling us to act swiftly if the need arises. the proposal aims to reap all the benefits of digitalisation. it also strengthens transboundary cooperation when a pollution event affects several member states. and this is very much needed, as we saw from the disaster in the oder. the report presented here today proposes changes to the list of pollutants and standards, and there are suggestions for tighter deadlines and for no limits to the number of substances to be added to the watch list. additional proposals include exploring extended producer responsibility, cost sharing for additional monitoring and the possibility of an eu water quality monitoring facility. while the general thrust here is very much in line with the commission proposal, for some we will need to consider the practical feasibility and implementations. on the use of delegated acts, i would highlight the phrase ‘swift response’. i request your support to empower the commission to introduce changes to the list and to quality standards for water pollutants more quickly. we need a more dynamic decision-making system to protect the environment and human health from emerging risks. rest assured, this procedure will not lessen the necessary consultation of all parties. as for the report’s proposal on specific substances and standards, we acknowledge that some standards need to be corrected in light of the scientific committee’s final opinion. they will also be discussed with the council. i’ll finish here. thank you. and, of course, i look forward to the debate.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we welcome this proposal from the commission because it is really urgently needed: we must protect the source of all life, we must protect water more and more intensively. we must also ensure that certain products which have perhaps not been the focus of discussion in recent years are supplemented. we talked a lot about nitrates, about heavy metals, about microplastics. but we need to talk more about pesticides, like glyphosate, and about drugs that are damaging our water. getting clean water is harder than avoiding bad water. so it's important to talk about pfas, the chemicals of eternity, about bisphenol a and about antibiotics, what's in the water. and most importantly, we have a contamination of antibiotic-resistant germs. so we've put in a motion that we check slaughterhouses, that we know exactly what's coming out of those slaughterhouses in terms of antibiotic-resistant germs. and one more point, commissioner, one thing we do not understand: why should there be different limits for glyphosate, both for drinking water and for so-called normal water? this can't be. water is water, and we can't make a distinction between them.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, of course, we cannot be blind in front of the effects of the human activity in our ecosystem. we hear it very well from our commissioner sinkevičius. thank you very much for this report on which we worked with pleasure because it was already very good and, with the ambition of our colleague milan brglez, who coordinated our work so well, we managed to add to this legislative proposal. we realise the seriousness of that when we think of the summer last year, one of the worst disasters in the history of european rivers happened in the oder river, which crosses the czech republic, poland, germany: over 360 tonnes of dead fish were found. and such disasters happen regularly over and over again. like in 2021, in mar menor – europe’s largest saltwater lagoon – we also had those hundreds of tonnes of dead fish. so, i fully agree with you, commissioner, we must act fast. but when i hear that the epp added in the last moment two amendments that again weaken this revision, i ask you from my whole heart, act responsibly and vote for the text that left the committee.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, clean surface and groundwater is a precious natural resource that we must protect. i think it is essential that companies and private operators should be held responsible for the pollution they cause. environmental crimes should be investigated more extensively across the eu and polluters should be made to pay for their actions. clean water is vital to our health and our environment. many industries, such as wildlife tourism, food production and fishing, depend on clean water and nature. therefore, industry, and particularly the mining industry, must comply with strict environmental criteria in order to avoid any pollution of water bodies or groundwater. we need to create stricter regulations and improve their supervision. we need to promote responsible waste management and invest in advanced water treatment technologies. by protecting our water resources, we ensure a cleaner and healthier environment for future generations.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, water is a vital resource for our survival. yet, this resource is becoming scarce and increasingly contaminated by various toxic substances. more than 60% of surface water in the european union is now polluted. and for more than a decade, the world wildlife fund has been denouncing the failure to implement protocols and regulations to measure water quality, which means that these figures are underestimated. in this context, we must first enforce and supplement existing legislation. i welcome the new directives which propose, among other things, the increase of monitoring stations, the extension of the substances to be monitored and the reduction of the authorised thresholds. but more needs to be done: the eu must do more to deliver on the promise to restore water quality by 2027. and i must say that i deeply regret the position of the right in the committee, which wanted to make the monitoring and protection of our waters conditional on the fact that it does not entail excessive costs. i propose that you go three days without water to put the notion of "excess cost" into perspective when it comes to a resource vital to our survival. i conclude by saying that water is a common good of humanity and we must absolutely continue our fight to protect it.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. without water, there is no life, and without safe drinking water, there is no quality of life. our modern way of life puts undue strain on nature and pollutes water. that is why i support the proposed directive. but with increasing frequency, natural disasters remind us that man will have to bow to nature and be more in tune with its laws. we need to find sustainable solutions to drought and flooding while protecting our drinking water sources. in slovenia, we experienced the worst natural disaster in august. in a few days of rain, the idyllic green landscape has turned into a muddy swamp. wild rivers have washed away the homes and work of many generations. thank you to the european union for your help and also to the member states.
the commission has already done so. this summer has shown us again that prolonged drought is having a massive impact on our agriculture. agriculture is one of the most important water users. yes, it depends on a stable water supply to provide us all with the highest quality food - let's not forget that. the opinion of the committee on agriculture has helped to ensure that farmers are not seen as a problem in water policy. the important role of agriculture in water policy is recognised. we are calling for measures to improve water efficiency within agriculture. but there must be some criticism, commissioner: the pollutant limits must be objectively justified and proportionate. the fact that limits are being set beyond the requirements of drinking water standards or that they are now being applied to non-relevant products of pesticide degradation may be well-intentioned, but it puts further pressure on agriculture, which is already working at the limit, without any factual basis.
madam president, i welcome the revision of these directives. the chemical status of surface and groundwater in the eu is in poor condition. the stricter thresholds for pfas are welcome. these so-called forever chemicals have been detected in more than 70 % of the groundwater measuring points in the eu. we know that pfas pose enormous health and environmental risks and that big corporations have lied to us for decades about their dangers. but let’s not forget that there is a much bigger piece of legislation on the way this year that should be tackling the pfas: the revision of the reach regulation. the chemical strategy promised that the most harmful chemicals in consumer products would be banned. yet, in july, there was reports that the commission is under serious pressure to break their promise due to pressure from the chemical industry and right-wing political groups. surely, public health is more important than big business profits?
madam president, the so-called emerald isle of ireland is not so green or clean anymore with the dirty secret, which is that our water quality is in dire straits. and, as the epa recently confirmed, it’s actually not getting any better. now, the big culprit for the pollution of our rivers and lakes is, of course, the increasing nitrate concentrations, runoffs from dairy farms is ruining our ground and surface water and it’s got to be addressed head on, as this is ultimately the source of our drinking water and many sectors of our society, including agriculture, rely on clean groundwater. except the problem is that our government isn’t dealing with it. actually, they’ve caused the problem by developing unsustainable dairy herds and refusing to support farmers in the transition away from it, instead relying on the continuation of derogations. this isn’t good enough. we need a transformation of our agricultural strategy. we need thresholds for pollutants to be scientifically established and a fair way of going forward. agriculture and the environment are not opposites, they go hand in hand.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mrs gabi bischoff. the draft report adopted by the committee after lengthy and extensive negotiations is a clear step in the right direction. the qatar gate has done great damage to the image of this house, which is why we as a parliament committed ourselves here in july to translate the 14-point plan into concrete action as soon as possible, also as a promise to citizens across all 27 member states of the european union. the adoption of this report is necessary because we can only exercise our responsibility fairly if we also make it clear how we work in the house and how we conduct ourselves personally. and that is as important to democracy as air to breathe. it contains proposals which we as a left-wing group have been calling for for a long time: for example, a compulsory declaration of assets by members of parliament, stricter rules on the transparency of meetings with lobbyists. but the report obviously does not go far enough. and that is why i think we should restrict the paid side work of members of parliament even more. the absence of members from the right of the house shows that we are facing a very difficult decision. i can only ask all the groups in this house to accept and approve this report.
madam president, the revision of the rules of procedure is an important moment in the history of this parliament, which, as has been said, has been deeply shaken by the scandal of last december. i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mrs gabriele bischoff, the chairman of the working party within the afco committee, mr rainer wieland, and all the members who have worked hard over the last few months on the basis of a proposal which president metsola has just handed us, asking us to strengthen the existing rules to safeguard and make our work more transparent and independent, guaranteeing greater and further credibility for parliament. it was a difficult, demanding but necessary task to contain the easy exploitation and simplification of the serious events that have taken place, but above all to prevent a dangerous delegitimization of a democratic institution elected directly by the citizens. the work presented today fully reflects the objectives set by the presidency and has been carried out in the time needed to ensure a balanced, correct and effective text. unfortunately, we must be aware that there is no rule that cannot be circumvented by those who deliberately want to circumvent it: but we are going to make the system stronger by intensifying controls and imposing sanctions. this review is further proof that parliament is determined to work in a free and democratic manner in the interests of the citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, by reforming the rules of procedure we are demonstrating our desire to strengthen the integrity, independence and transparency of our institution after the scandals which have shown the permeability of the system. these are clear and ambitious rules, such as the requirement for members to submit a supplementary statement of assets and liabilities and the requirement to publish all scheduled meetings with stakeholders, a rule that previously applied only to holders of specific posts or with an active role in a dossier. the new advisory committee will include three independent experts and will be given the opportunity to report directly on alleged infringements. it's not all there is, it's more work, more steps, but this is a very important first step. these are necessary rules and it is inexplicable that a section of the right in this parliament should want to oppose these new rules. one thing is certain: the final vote in this house will reveal who really wants to reform our institution, protecting it from outside influences, and who wants to maintain the status quo, perhaps after having filled his mouth in these last months with useless propaganda on these issues. (the speaker agrees to answer a blue-card question)
blue-card answer. – i think it’s very delicate when we put a limit on the activity of a parliamentarian. so we need to consider these issues with care and with attention. however, i think that the rules we are putting in this text are simply increasing transparency and an overall control on our democratic procedures, a form of collective scrutiny. so, i think we should never underestimate this issue. we need to consider the freedom of the mandate, the freedom to have any idea that is compatible with democratic values in this chamber, to be protected, but at the same time, we need to protect democracy from the risk of corruption and external influence.
madam president, in spanish there is a saying: 'we remember santa barbara when it thunders'. and in this parliament, there has been a lot of talk about qatargate; and there has been so much talk that we are here. i hope that after the thunder and lightning and the rain we can have a good harvest in regulatory matters. we're changing the rules to be more aware of our obligations, to minimize the temptation to mix the public interest with any other. with these new rules, a member cannot stop being a member and immediately become a lobbyist. we will be required to publish our meetings and those of our teams in connection with our work as legislators. and we define -- very importantly -- conflict of interest and determine what to do when it exists in a perfectly articulated way. there are issues, such as our heritage when we enter and leave parliament, which, although they will not be public, will be available to the authorities. they'll be very useful for investigating possible corrupt deals and various criminal matters. the thunder of qatargate is not ringing right now, but its effects are there. i hope we will have a good harvest of rules of regulation for our transparency and to defend parliamentary interests better.
madam president, let me start by strongly agreeing with president roberta metsola that the transparency of our actions as the institution and the individual members is crucial to regain citizens’ trust. we are about to vote on the outcome of the work in afco regarding changes to the rules of procedure and, again, i share the views of president metsola, who said that she wanted to go further, but the new rules will also serve as a deterrent. and as a member of the advisory committee, i would like to support the proposal of afco regarding more detailed rules on some aspects of the work of the advisory committee. the committee has always believed in the importance of preventing rather than punishing. the committee was convinced about the need to revise the code of conduct for members to increase the clarity of the rules and precision of the contents on the ethics and transparency obligations impending upon members. we were also in favour of changing the title of the code to go beyond the focus on financial interests. and, to conclude, let me also inform you that the committee has always had, since 2010, the right to invite outside experts with independent advice when assessing cases of alleged breaches of the code of conduct while keeping full confidentiality. and this, i believe, is important.
madam president, after nine months of negotiations across multiple bodies in the wake of qatargate, we’re finally getting to vote on the changes to the rules to reform the integrity, accountability and transparency of parliament. and despite the fact that the text does see some improvements, and i very much welcome that, it’s not as ambitious as it should be or as people said it would be when this was in the headlights and all the high drama was ongoing last year. and the most glaring absence is the ban on meps being paid by law firms and consultancies and the like to do side work. now, three times this parliament voted to call for a ban on paid activity on behalf of entities covered by the transparency register. despite the efforts of the epp, renew and the ecr in blocking this in committee, it was passed by parliament in july, but it is not here. so where is it? how can we explain this absence? what kind of message does it send that after all the rhetoric and after all the resolutions we’re backtracking on this one?
madam president, qatargate hit the headlines in the european parliament, but it was really just a result of allowing the lobbyists to shape this institution to its core. while we welcome the push for transparency and accountability, the european parliament will have a lot of work to do to gain the trust of european citizens – from environmental laws watered down to appease big business, to senseless military spending lining the pockets of the arms manufacturers while europeans grapple with historic levels of inflation, yielding to lobby interests is just business as usual for the european parliament. metsola’s message in the wake of qatargate was that the eu democracy was under attack by foreign forces. the real enemy of democracy is at home with the impunity of the rich and the powerful, many of whom have been walking parliament’s corridors for way too long. where is the serious effort to actually tackle the power of the lobbyists? lobbyists are a cancer to democracy and until you actually bring them to heel they will remain so.
mr president, last year, for the first time in 40 years, the french people asked themselves whether they could heat up in winter. this was the consequence of emmanuel macron's choice, for ideological reasons, to sacrifice nuclear power and close the fessenheim power plant. the abandonment of clean, cheap and efficient energy in favour of intermittent, expensive energy, which makes us dependent on china and requires the activation of coal-fired power stations. germany, the biggest polluter in europe, knows something about this. in 2021, it emitted eight times more co2 than france for 50% more expensive electricity. with this text you are pursuing this hypocritical and suicidal logic. you want to subsidize solar and wind without giving anything to nuclear. macron, despite what he claims today, has been too cowardly to engage a real arm and defend our interests. there is only one choice: to ensure that our people have abundant, cheap, carbon-free energy to support our industry, to support the purchasing power of households and to ensure the future of our children. we need an ambitious plan to build new generation nuclear power stations throughout europe, on the model of the messmer plan which gave france energy sovereignty a few decades ago.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the renewable energy directive is a real success. we're finally getting more renewable energy. and, contrary to what my two previous speakers have just said, the future does not belong to radiant nuclear energy, which is expensive and dangerous, where we do not know how to dispose of nuclear waste, but it belongs to the sun, it belongs to solar energy and it is therefore really a future for the young generation. and that is what we are doing with this renewable energy directive. it's good that we're setting hydrogen targets. it is good that we have targets in the transport sector. and i'm glad that we're finally accelerating renewables through faster permitting processes, through prioritized areas, through clear rules that municipalities can implement. and with that, we're making real progress. what we cannot call progress is that we describe woody biomass as a future energy source in this renewable energy directive. i think this is a real mistake. this summer, we're seeing our forests burn down because of the climate crisis. so we can't fire them extra. we're destroying our carbon stores with this. this is a real mistake. but otherwise the renewable energy directive is a real way forward. and i think we can build on that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. despite a wave of tax-funded subsidies, the wind industry is struggling with rising construction costs, logistical problems, bureaucracy and competition from china. the losses are increasing, even as the subsidies are increasing. this is what a clear and forward-looking eu policy looks like. flooding our landscapes and coasts with wind power will destroy our environment. it is sad that the eu and the climate movement have completely abandoned the old ideals of nature conservation and species protection. wind power will not provide the electricity needed to run a competitive industry. the absurdly high targets will not be met, and the commission knows this. when will the eu stop claiming that wind power will make us more geopolitically independent? it's not enough that the wind blows in europe. the reality is more complex than that. the truth is that renewable energy will only make us more and more dependent on china. it is time for the eu to realise this too!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are very pleased to approve a directive which has very challenging and ambitious targets and objectives. but we also know that they are reachable: it is not just ambition, it is also the reality of the work that europe is doing if, of course, we develop certain conditions; i am only mentioning them in the title. the first concerns procedures: the problem of accelerating permits is essential. we have national plans and ambitious targets, but we are not moving forward with the necessary speed and that is because of procedures. so, great solution you found. the second concerns the availability of technologies and raw materials and everything that, fortunately, the new european industrial policy is planning and trying to build: technologies, raw materials and tools. for example, we look very favourably on the alliance successfully made for batteries and now, as regards wind and solar. these new forms and instruments of industrial policy bring together countries, research centres and entrepreneurs and can move us forward. the third concerns investment: repowereu and the new availability of our plans also provide the tools to achieve these objectives.
mr president, commissioner simson, severe natural disasters adding up to human and natural tragedies during this summer, around europe and especially in my home country, greece have highlighted the need to erase the eu emissions when it comes to the share of renewables in energy consumption to tackle the climate crisis and energy security. that is why here today we are doing a very important debate, because finally we set a comprehensive framework for the deployment of rates across the eu, because we agreed an 42.5% of renewables binding target by 2030 on final energy consumption, following the will of 85% of the european people asking for the eu to invest massively into renewable energies. 27 months after this piece of legislation’s entry to force, the member states are obliged to designate acceleration areas in order to increase the deployment of red. it is worth mentioning that high value environmental areas, such as natura 2000 sites, will be excluded from these acceleration areas. it will be important also to mention that the target of 42% of hydrogen used in industry must be produced from wind, hydro and solar energy. it is also the cross-border… (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, renewable energy and renewable energy sources are certainly necessary to protect the environment. but what we have to stress is that there has to be flexibility and it is good that it is a directive and not a regulation, because, i mean for the colleagues who argued that biomass should not be included and that it should be wind energy only, we do not have the same resources in all the member states. there is no wind in romania like in the netherlands, we don't have the same solar energy, so it's good that they have been included, that the scope of renewable energy has been expanded. it's also very important how we can make the permits flexible, the sites so that smes can access them, so that the costs are not so high that smes can't access them. and i want to make another suggestion: if we are so focused on innovation, why shouldn't citizens, innovators in the member states who already have patents, be able to access directly from the european commission the budget of the european union, instead of going through national procedures?
mr president, so, this is the latest revision of the renewable energy directive – the establishment of common rules and targets for the development of renewable energy across all sectors of the economy. but i think we have to start by reminding ourselves of the urgent and radical action that we need to take this decade if we are to achieve the objectives of the paris agreement and if europe is to meet its obligations. now, the lower-than-expected target for the eu share of renewable energy, and the inclusion of low-carbon fuels and non-renewable categories in the renewable energy directive, really risks jeopardising europe’s energy transition by withdrawing crucial resources and funds for the deployment of renewable energy. and, as colleagues have said, for the transport sector, the perpetuation of the false climate solution of biofuels is going to continue to waste land that could feed millions. we are making choices that are going to be fatal for the planet, and we need to do a lot better.
mr president, despite the many revisions of the renewable energy directive, it still encourages member states to burn their own forests to meet the directive’s targets. in 2019, when i was a member of derry’s parliament, i debated this issue with the then irish minister for forestry. he told me sitka spruce occupies 51 % of ireland’s total forested area – so half of ireland’s forests are commercially monocultures. he told me that in ireland, 42 % of all sitka spruce grown is harvested for energy – that’s a quarter of all irish forests. so in ireland we burn a quarter of our forests. the minister specifically told me that this 42 % makes an important contribution to ireland’s renewable energy targets. it’s pretty sad. the revision of the directive gives member states considerable decision-making power in relation to key sustainability criteria. but we know from the irish example that many member states will simply ignore the clear scientific evidence that burning biomass is a disaster for the climate.
mr president, so consumer credit is basically something which allows consumers to purchase goods and services that they don’t have the money for. we’re obviously updating the directive, and i welcome the positive elements which have been referred to by colleagues such as the right to be forgotten, such as improved access to solvency. but in some ways this is just like putting a plaster on a terminal disease – a disease that sees growing indebtedness across all european householders. we have the impoverishment and precariousness of the population. people need loans because they haven’t got enough money to meet their basic needs in many instances. 1.5 million people in spain spend more than 40 % of their income on debt repayments. in germany, they’re closing the doors of food banks to people. last year, eurostat reckoned that a fifth of the eu’s population were unable to heat their homes even before the last price increase. so we can’t just content ourselves with policies aimed at sustaining a system of debt where we need to address wages also.
mr president, dear fellow hunters, since the public authorities are overwhelmed by the explosion in the use of weapons of war by criminals, they want to tighten up the rules on the ownership, sale and transport of weapons. but you cannot imagine for a moment that this will prevent the smugglers and the gangs, who operate in the most illegal way, from acquiring kalashnikovs and automatic weapons. no, the eco-bobos are rubbing their hands together, because in reality, this text will have a major impact on hunters and sport shooters. i am the rapporteur for this text for our id group, and i tabled amendments to exclude hunters and sport shooters from these new constraints. but i'm all alone. where are the hunting officials in france? why do they not call on the political parties to oppose this text? in reality, these hunting leaders are content with this system that keeps them in power. the hunters' problems are really their business. in the next election, they'll tell you they'll be there to fix it. shame on them and the schemes of these fire-hunting pyromaniacs. i am a hunter and i share this passion with you, and it is out of conviction that i am committed to defending our passion.
mr president, i have heard many times in this chamber, and from other european and national leaders, that the protection of the environment and nature is a priority for the union and its member states. of course, such words certainly sound good, but let's look outside this room at what the real reality is in the european union, as the case of the czech republic now proves, where the much-mentioned protection of nature has to give way in practice to the interests of the military-industrial complex because of the insane policy of militarization. the ministry of defence of the czech republic has presented its intention to build a military logistics centre in mošnov. however, the construction of such a centre and associated infrastructure would seriously damage the poodří protected landscape area, which is also a site of european importance, and would negatively affect the birdlife living in the area, without adequate compensation. fellas, just because it's the military, please don't be silent when they destroy what you're trying to protect and invest in.
mr president, 1 september was marked in my country latvia’s calendar by two major events. first, children who started their studies in three grades of national minority primary schools will no longer hear their mother tongue. all lessons of the compulsory programme will be in latvian. second, thousands of locals who were not recognised as latvian citizens 30 years ago – and who later only acquired citizenship of the russian federation – will start receiving orders to leave the country by the reason of bad mastery of latvian language. appeals to international bodies yielded results and the government is now ready to discuss indulgences. these bodies were the osce and the un, but unfortunately not the european union. the recent response to the collective petition about ‘russophobia’ in latvia is as follows: the european commission has no general power as regards minorities; it is for member states to ensure that fundamental rights are effectively respected and protected. i consider this position a disgrace for the eu.
mr. president, colleagues, recently on the romanian bank of the danube, parts of drones used by the russian army in attacks aimed at destroying the port infrastructure of ukraine were discovered. the situation calls for the attention of the european authorities, who must have a common and clear reaction on this subject. the european union must be firm in expressing its solidarity with romania and protecting our common european borders. that is why i have asked in the european budget for next year for additional funds to protect our external borders and to assist the population terrorised by russian attacks just a few metres from their homes. many people are thinking of leaving the area, while their businesses are affected and tourism activities are stagnating. europe must avoid depopulation of border communities, which are essential in assisting ukraine and in the future reconstruction process. the european union must be prepared to apply the european treaties and to act through concrete measures to protect all european citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if you're a man in iraq right now wearing lipstick or women's clothing, you can go to jail for up to three years. if you promote homosexuality, you can go to jail for seven years. and if you have sex with another man more than three times, you can get the death penalty for it. at least, if the law proposed there comes into force. this is not just iraq. there are an incredible number of countries on this planet that are experiencing exactly this kind of homophobia right now. it has structure. it is quite clear that it is governments that are unable to cope with their own economic situation and are looking for a scapegoat. but it's also the money flows from europe that are forcing these narratives into these regions. it's fundamentalist evangelicals who push this stuff. the commission must take this very seriously. we have to make sure that these people are put to work, that we withdraw the funds. that's why i'm asking you.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. this requires the implementation of policies of the best possible environmental protection and of a more effective protection policy. unfortunately, this is not the case in greece. the flood control projects, which were planned after the 2020 disasters in thessaly, were never built, causing the extreme weather events to cause even more disaster days ago. moreover, the government has begun to implement pre-election laws that legitimize tens of thousands of arbitrary buildings and encroachments on public lands, even in forested areas, thus strengthening the economic incentives to destroy them. such policies magnify the effects of climate change. the threat is serious, so we must be responsible and effective.
president. - the debate is closed. inflation is ingrained in the economy and it is life threatening. the inflation rate may have fallen in the past year, but inflation has not gone away. it still eats out of people's wallets every day at home. the prices are not falling. a fall in inflation only means that prices are rising less rapidly. in two years, the cost of living has risen by over 15%. oil prices are at an all-time high and wage costs are rising at a record pace. mr president, everyone is suddenly full of the security of life. if we want to guarantee this, but more importantly to increase prosperity, we must first combat inflation. that means that the european central bank must continue to raise interest rates and governments must go on a diet. we also call on the european commission to cut its own budget and not to put the bill on our taxpayers.
mr president, there are 1 million people homeless across europe tonight, according to the feantsa report. millions more live in dilapidated, overcrowded accommodation. and of course – true to form – ireland is one of the worst performers in that list. fifteen years after the financial disaster of 2008, it’s time to start joining the dots. an entire generation has been systematically, deliberately, locked out of home ownership. for europe’s young people, their future – whether they like it or not – is renting. it’s insecure, inadequate housing. it’s fattening the wallets of the investment megafunds that are buying up our cities. it’s watching the eu and governments connive to take us back to the 18th century. there isn’t a housing crisis. this is policy – policy to put the ownership into the hands of the 1%, and everyone else can rent or be homeless. it’s never been just about supply and demand. this is big finance, big business, stealing the ground from under our feet. but the people have begun to see through it and they will resist.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today i want to raise awareness and ask you to sign and share our petition. we have a lunch today with colleague ivan štefanec. we would like to ask you to support this petition regarding the ban for russian and belarussian athletes from the 2024 olympic games. it was the european parliament which made this call to the international olympic committee (ioc) in the first place. but, despite our efforts, it is clear that the ioc is still hesitating to ban those athletes from the games. it is simply unacceptable to cheer for russian athletes when their government is responsible for thousands of deaths of civilians, including children. our petition call is clear: athletes competing under the neutral flag must sign a declaration denouncing the russian aggression against ukraine.
mr president, last week we discussed the ukraine facility – eur 50 billion over four years for reconstruction – while the bombs still rain down. we have a eur 20 billion ukraine weapon fund, eur 5 billion for four years, even if the war ends. this week we vote on a eur 300 million procurement subsidy. this is on top of the eur 500 million package for ammunition production in july. and we’re waiting to hear from the commission about the european defence production act – more subsidies for the merchants of death. ukrainians are getting decimated and the arms industry and their investors are laughing all the way to the bank. half of the arms companies drawing on eu funds are embroiled in corruption scandals, while ukraine is a basket case of corruption itself. and we cannot throw enough money at them. the eu is losing the plot. us officials are talking about getting ready for a long war. at this rate, it will cost over eur 1 trillion for reconstruction, and an entire generation of ukrainian men will be dead. when will we start working for peace? what in god’s name is wrong with us?
mrs president, i would like to point out once again that von der leyen and charles michel do not stay until the end of the debate. madam president, nothing can erase the gravity of the aggression that israel is imposing on the palestinian people in the gaza strip and other occupied palestinian territories. according to save the children, among the more than 10,000 deadly victims, the more than 4,000 children killed in a month by israeli forces have exceeded the number of children killed in all conflicts worldwide since 2019. the un secretary-general reports that the number of un officials killed is the highest ever in the organization's history and that the number of journalists killed is the highest in the last 30 years in any conflict. in the face of this undeniable reality, how can the institutions of the european union continue to remain silent in condemning israel? where are the sanctions or appeals to the international criminal court now? how can they remain silent in demanding an immediate ceasefire? history will judge you: hypocrisy and complicity in israel's occupation policy, which deliberately prevents the creation of a palestinian state.
madam president, if you cease fire, if you pause humanitarian... here we are, arguing and dividing. i think this debate was absolutely unnecessary. i am proud of the debate on 19 october and the resolution of 19 october, in which we all condemned hamas' attacks on israel and also echoed the suffering of the palestinian people, victims, human shield of hamas. and we are playing the game and we are going to see if we find out here in this european parliament about iran, which is the black hand that has always been behind these attacks. and you are achieving your goal with this division that many of you want to do in this parliament. let us stick to that resolution. united and clear: it's the best way to help those in prison get out, so they can return to israel, so that civilians can stop suffering. let us see if we can start taking these things into account here in this parliament. let's get back to the spirit of october 19.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 'we are in grave danger that benjamin netanyahu and his fanatical allies will take advantage of the gaza crisis to drive the palestinians out of all the occupied territories. we risk a regional war for these criminal messianic men". these are the words, not of a palestinian activist, but of ehud olmert, former prime minister of the nationalist right of likud, in an interview with an italian newspaper. israel's legitimate defense against the hateful terrorist attack by hamas cannot be without the protection of civilians in gaza and respect for international law. no collective punishment of a people is acceptable. we must now put an end to hostilities to allow humanitarian aid to arrive. it is necessary to release hostages, de-escalate and stop the flow of money to terrorist organizations, together with a real process that leads to the creation of, finally, two states, stopping the advance of the colonies in the west bank and with an international presence in gaza. only in this way can justice and security be guaranteed to israelis and palestinians. europe finally speaks with one voice to restore meaning to the international order and save lives.
- madam speaker, please. no child grows up to hate someone. you learn that from adults. no child is responsible for military conflicts, either. it's adults who are responsible. a few years ago, i was in israel/palestine and visited sderot, an israeli community near gaza that is often hit by rockets. i went to a school and talked to the israeli children who need to be afraid when they go to school for rocket attacks. these children have no responsibility for this conflict, but neither do the children who are currently living in terror in gaza who are subject to israeli attacks. the children must live in peace and freedom. we need a ceasefire now so we can negotiate, so we can make peace between israel and palestine.
madam president, as someone who was in the war in the 90s, in 1992, i’m going to remind you of the episode, when the croatian forces in bosnia and herzegovina, when they were encircled by the serbian forces, they took from jajce 30 000 civilians and then they returned and stayed and fought for seven months until jajce fell. the difference between soldiers and terrorists is that soldiers protect first the lives of civilians. the croats knew how to do it. hamas is a terrorist organisation. they are putting the rockets next to the kindergartens, next to the mosques, next to the un buildings and trying for sympathy. they should be brave guys, let the hostages from israel that they took, they should set them free. they should take care of their civilians and not hold hostages from palestine and from israel in gaza. this is not about brave men. these cowards should stop, get out and fight as a real men.
madam president, a month has elapsed since the commencement of the unrelenting mass murder of palestinians in gaza. it’s not a spiral of violence, frau von der leyen. it’s genocide! openly declared and carried out by the apartheid state of israel. starvation, bombing hospitals, ambulances, journalists, humanitarian routes: 10 000 dead, 1 in 200 gazans killed. a palestinian child slaughtered every 10 minutes for a month! and frau von der leyen’s answer to this graveyard for children is to tell israel: ‘avoid civilians’, ‘be as targeted as you can’. well, that displays some neck! you can’t even call for it to stop. you can’t even call for a ceasefire. well, of course you can’t, because these crimes against humanity are being carried out with your weapons, in your name, when you stood with israel a month ago and you said you’d stand with them now and in the days to come. so don’t come in here trying to wipe the blood off with belated concern. it’s not just israel’s genocide; it’s yours. and the hague isn’t good enough for you.
madam president, over 4 000 children have been killed by the colonial israeli regime in one month. eight times more children have been killed in gaza in one month than in all of the ukraine war. eight times more! and eu leaders are still talking about israel’s right to defend itself. defend itself? is bombing hospitals and churches defending itself? is bombing refugee camps defending itself? is slaughtering 4 000 children defending itself? i mean, where are we going? over 10 000 civilians have been killed in gaza with eu and us weapons. european white supremacy knows no bounds! a genocide is being carried out by a far-right apartheid israeli regime, and they are doing so with our unconditional support. it is the eu leaders: not only can you not call for a ceasefire; you can’t mention the words ‘condemn’ and ‘israel’ in the same sentence. how in god’s name is the eu ever going to talk about human rights anywhere again?
mr president, dear commissioner simson, allow me to start by quoting mario draghi: ‘where we need to get our act together is energy. we are going nowhere paying energy twice or three times what it costs in other parts of the world.’ by speeding up all the relative efforts in regard to the implementation of our repowereu plan, with all the emerging legislative measures, we have tried to decrease prices and give some relief to households. but now we need to increase the monitor on the procedure of implementation of all this vast amount of emerging legislation with a fast and imminent element. at the same time, the eu needs to continue to ensure affordable and accessible energy for households, decreasing the numbers in regard to energy poverty, while at the same time enhancing the industrial and economic competitiveness of its industries with step, with net zero act and facilitating new solid investments. we have to be cautious. when we discuss further actions to russia in regards to the import of lng, we have to consider that this kind of sanctions raise critical issues of security of supply, while at the same time jeopardising the fluctuation of the energy prices among member states. in order to erase our dependence from putin, we need more renewable, fast deployment, more energy efficiency projects, more renewable fuels as fast as possible. in this direction, and as the winter 2023-2024 is ahead, we have not to forget that, on the basis of collective actions, we can bring concrete results for the benefit of our people and our economies.
mr president, mr commissioner, as we look at the progress made in the european energy union, we can be pleased with the many positive steps taken in this regard. in particular, the fact that emissions have decreased by more than 32% since 1990 and at the same time the eu's gdp has increased by 67% shows that sustainable growth is possible and we can cut emissions. the green paper also shows that the green paper is a good example of the way in which the european parliament has been able to make progress. at the same time, it must be said that this has created a very heavy administrative burden for industry and businesses. the important thing in the coming months will be to get rid of the overly heavy regulations and the detailed regulations that have come to us from quite a few green transition initiatives. the european union has also succeeded in eliminating the very high dependence on russia for energy. imports of coal into the eu area have been stopped. oil imports have fallen by 90%, natural gas imports by 75%. but at the same time, imports of liquefied natural gas, lng, have even increased to the eu, and nuclear sanctions have not yet been in place all along. so there's activity in that sector, too. we can say that the countries of the european union continue to pay more than eur 2 billion each month to russia for fossil fuels alone, and this is unsustainable. we must stop all energy purchases from russia and bring all energy activities under sanctions. the next time the commission prepares this package of 12 rescue measures, it must be extended to the whole of energy production.
- mr. president, what are you doing? the honourable vice president, the honourable commissioner. i agree with the conclusions of the communication that short-term measures to mitigate the energy crisis have been successful. we have reduced our dependence on russia, diversified our supply, increased our stocks, and increased production of renewable energy. on the other hand, we have a reduction in energy consumption, which is partly due to energy efficiency measures, but also unfortunately because people are having difficulty paying the price of expensive heating gas. on the other hand, it is also the result of a decrease in the competitiveness of the european economy, the largest in germany, and a decrease in consumption. even in my country of origin, slovenia, there is no longer any production of aluminum and now we import a much more polluted steel, aluminum from china. i welcome your speech yesterday at the nuclear energy forum support for nuclear energy as well as small modular reactors i am preparing a report on this point. and the long-term solution i see is that we really respect the rule of technological neutrality and implement measures for 10, 20 years to come, because energy is not planned for two or three years, but planning is measured in decades.
mr president, one of the primary objectives of the energy union was to provide clean and affordable energy for the people of europe. yet, irish consumers pay annual energy bills that are about eur 800 more than the average in the eu. irish households pay eur 0.47 per kilowatt-hour for electricity, compared to a european average of eur 0.26. that’s nearly double the eu average. the eu has pushed the privatisation and liberalisation of the energy sector for decades, promising it would lead to greater efficiency, lower prices and a decarbonised economy. but that’s failed. the pace of decarbonisation is far too slow and the concept of marginal pricing means consumers pay gas prices for renewable energy anyway. and commissioner, you’re boasting about reducing consumption of russian gas. but, i mean, we’re buying lng from america, paying a lot more for it. these are people who’ve dropped more bombs than the rest of the world put together since the end of the second world war. and we’ve done a gas deal with israel. with israel! they’ve just killed 4 000 children ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, every year that passes brings us closer to the deadline set by the paris agreement necessary to limit the climate catastrophe. and yet a new study has shown that the carbon budget today is less than half of what we thought it was in 2020. so if we continue at the present emissions rates, we have only six years to remain within the 1.5 degree limit, and it is fossil fuels that are at the root of this problem. yet the eighth state of the union report states that fossil fuel subsidies in the eu have doubled in 2022, supposedly on the basis of supporting consumer demand for energy. but we have to wonder, how effective is that really, when we see 41 million people in the eu being unable to heat their homes? at the same time, subsidies earmarked for fossil fuel extraction and infrastructure get eur 19 billion. three european banks are the top banks financing these companies and exploiting carbon bombs. it is lunacy. we have to stop talking the talk and walk the walk.
the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. for us as the epp group, it is clear that we must prove that wages and growth go up and emissions and environmental impact go down together. otherwise, no one will follow us internationally in our ambitious goals. and it is also clear to me that environmental protection, climate protection, we will only achieve with industry as a partner and not with industry as an adversary. i mean, after four years of social democratic industrial policy here in this house, nothing surprises you anymore. but it is already amazing when three weeks ago the spd chairman in germany declared that the spd stands without if and but for the industrial site of germany. i have said to him clearly and clearly that it would be great if you not only said it, but if your colleagues in the parliaments also took this into account in their decisions. the spd, the social democratic party in this house, is not in favour of securing high-quality industrial jobs, but is at the forefront of the counter-movement! that's the sad reality. that was announced here and today. the epp is on a different course: industry as a partner for climate and environmental protection. and that's what tomorrow is all about. and that's what i'm advertising for.
mr president, this legislation should be about setting adequate standards to improve public health and save lives. yet the right-wing groups instead want to limit costs for car manufacturers. it’s estimated that pollution from road transport causes 70 000 premature deaths every year in the eu, as the commissioner herself highlighted. yet some groups want to put the interests of big business ahead of the health of the ordinary people of europe. the commission proposal already lacked the necessary ambition, but the right wing weakened the text even further at the envi committee. a report by the international council on clean transportation showed that china’s emissions limit values are nearly twice as stringent as the euro 7 proposal, and the us limits are nearly three times as stringent. the car industry is taking home record profits and paying out massive amounts of money to shareholders. if they wanted to pay for cleaner cars, they quite well could.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner, i have a special reason to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work, because actually, i got to know him before he joined our parliament when he was leading an odihr osce electoral observation mission, of which we as the european parliament were a part, next to two other parliamentary fora. and i remember very well that we had to undertake certain measures to save the integrity of our mission, right? so this leads me to the question of fake election observation and behaviour that is not acceptable for observers. and on the grounds of that mission we did together, we actually created a code of conduct for three parliamentary assemblies on code of conduct for election observers. and i think it was an important exercise. now, unfortunately, we see that even elected members of this house from time to time participate in fake elections, such as the so-called referendum in crimea or also another referendum in azerbaijan. or they go and pretend to be experts for elections in russia, whereas they legitimise totally undemocratic elections. now, i am happy to say that, in fact, here in the european parliament we have a fresh new revised code of conduct for members. and it’s much easier now to make those members accountable for working against any democratic principles.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. only a democracy is a democracy. and that means a lot more than having an election day. the european parliament has also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take action. it is the strong sign of democracy that there is this summit, but the preconditions that are rooted much, much deeper. it needs not only the active right to vote, it needs the passive right to vote, and that is for everyone without pressure from a false judicial system that does not deserve that name, for example by restricting freedom of expression or by trying to favor some and thereby inevitably disadvantage others. this is all that the european union is to show to the world as a shining example from the outside and to support other parts of the world. and that's not self-evident, because democracies are under pressure everywhere. democracies are being pressured by systemic rivalry, but every human being is worth as much as anyone else and according to the philosophy of european civilization, every human being deserves such a democratic system. i would also like to say to those citizens in the eu who are often critical of the way in which democracy is contested: it is better to have a debate than to have the tranquility of an authoritarian system the quality of the debate, which is crucial.
- madam president, please! - your highness! free, fair and legitimate elections are a prerequisite for the health of every democracy. this is one of the foundations on which our european union was also built. but often elections in non-liberal and authoritarian systems can be abused or they can be mere formality and sand in the eyes of the public and the system. the international community, including the european union, can play a key role in verifying the integrity and legitimacy of elections. but the most important thing is the control of the domestic institutions, which of course must be strong and independent. the precondition for fair elections is certainly the free press. however, civil society and ngos play a particularly important role, and they need to be appropriately empowered. all these actors must work together to establish mechanisms to protect voting rights and freedoms from domestic and other threats. my colleagues and colleagues! europe must support legitimate democratic processes and elections in its work around the world, but must ensure that it does not act as a protector or even a supreme authority. relationships with friends and partners must therefore be based on mutual respect, despite possible differences in views and approaches. congratulations to colleague nach on his excellent work.
madam chair, madam commissioner, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for this afet report for creating very nice formulas of good behaviour. i just want to ask mr sánchez amor: are you ready to offer your know-how to mr lópez aguilar for the similar libe report? the formulas you proposed to non-eu countries do not need to be changed and are more than relevant for a number of eu member states. for example, latvia, estonia and bulgaria need a recommendation not to restrict the enjoyment of the right to participate of minorities, including ethnic and religious minorities. this concerns problems with electoral rights for non-citizens and the use of languages other than the state language in election campaigning. a call to monitor hate speech by public authorities and elected officials and to advance towards a zero-tolerance approach to racism and discrimination is extremely important for latvia as well. in particular, regarding the discrimination of my pro-minority party in receiving state financing and in standing for elections, i call for a zero tolerance approach. so we have to give up the habit to notice the speck in one eye, but to ignore the log in our own.
madam president, i don’t really recognise the world that this report describes. the values it claims it is based on don’t exist. how can we lecture non-eu countries about human rights and democracy when we go around the world fuelling wars and sanctioning countries to death? how can we pontificate about democracy and human rights when we not only call the fascist apartheid state of israel a democracy, but are prepared to support it to the point of the genocide of the palestinian people? human rights and democracy – these words have lost a lot of meaning when spoken by many european leaders and politicians. over 10 000 palestinians murdered, over 4 000 of them children. a textbook case of ethnic cleansing and genocide happening before our eyes, and we can’t even condemn israel. how can you talk about european democracy and human rights when you outlaw protests and brutalise people protesting about their families being massacred by israeli bombs? the eu’s credibility is dying.
madam president, we welcome the action taken by the cgtp, the general struggle for wage increases, which has been going on since 25 october and will end on 11 november. we welcome the many hundreds of initiatives under this action: the thousands of workers involved in plenaries, concentrations, stoppages and strikes in workplaces in all sectors, throughout the country, demanding a general and significant increase in wages and an improvement in their working and living conditions. the reality is that we must demand a just, necessary and possible wage increase of at least 15% and a minimum of eur 150. increasing wages and pensions is a national emergency. the workers, the portuguese people, can count on us in this fight, in defending the right to housing, health, education, in the fight for a sovereign and independent portugal of development, progress and social justice. on the 11th we will be with you in the streets, side by side, with the thousands of workers who, in porto and lisbon, will cry out for a better future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission, and it is therefore very important that the commission and the council agree to the proposal. the european union trusts the states that their subsidies and regional policies will be based on support for development projects, but will also be based on data that provides a clear basis for further development of the regions. however, member states often lack records of the needs of individual regions. hard data are missing on existing infrastructure, on its quality, on services available, whether public or private. we need to know not only explicit data on the economic development of certain regions, whether they are weak or advanced, but also social data on sub-regions and, as a criterion for allocating aid in regions, clear availability of data on their development, level and sectors. data-based policies must not be on paper but must become a precondition for successful european support.
madam president, there’s probably never been a time where international law and respect for international law has seemed so important, but it’s a huge problem. we were right to condemn the russian invasion of ukraine because it breached the sovereignty of a country. i don’t think we were right, though, to spend billions making sure that it didn’t stop. our lack of consistency in how we talk about international law is killing the eu’s credibility. we never had a problem and we actually assisted wars of aggression in afghanistan, iraq, syria, libya, yemen and now in palestine. international law – there’s been collective punishment to cut off the water, fuel and food. they’ve been bombing the place to smithereens. they’ve killed 4 000 children. they’ve killed 10 000 civilians. and you know what? we haven’t been able to condemn israel. how can we ever talk about international law again?
madam president, we need to talk about israel. joe biden says that if israel didn’t exist, the us would have to invent it – and he’s right. it’s a rogue state, vested in ensuring instability in the region and us geopolitical goals. and the result of this? in the last month, it’s bombed palestine, lebanon, egypt, syria – all the while claiming it’s the victim. it has occupied parts of these countries and bombed them so often that we don’t even generally give it a mention. and so we’ve got to where we are today – where they’re slaughtering children on an unprecedented scale. children wrapped in bloodied shrouds in their thousands. children under the rubble, even now, maimed and terrified, blinded with chemical agents, gasping for food and water. children screaming over the bodies of their dead parents: ‘mama, mama, wake up, wake up’. well, i, for one, never thought i’d see such scenes. and the governments of the west may continue to shield israel, but the people everywhere see it for what it is, including large numbers of jews. the zionist project is over. a new middle east of peace and justice will be built!
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, i have sat here many times and discussed a system of own resources, and each time i have to repeat myself. i am firstly supportive of the eu having own resources. the nextgenerationeu fund was an innovative and essential initiative from the commission and i strongly supported it. it mobilised over eur 800 billion to support the eu’s recovery from covid. but the deterioration of the economic situation in the eu has meant that borrowing costs have rocketed and we need to find a way to repay them. all that being said, after reading the report again, i find that i have no choice but to vote against it. despite all the well-known sensitivities around corporation tax, despite the huge efforts and engagement by ireland and other member states in signing up to the oecd pillar i and pillar ii agreements, the commission is once again trying to introduce a corporate tax without the ability to have proper negotiations and assess the impacts. i recognise that there is and should be, a discussion on whether the elements of pillar i and pillar ii should be contributed to the eu budget, but by proposing to introduce temporary own resources based on residual profits of the largest multinational enterprises, the commission is risking undermining any future debate on a permanent solution. the commission has framed this own resource as a temporary statistical own resource, but it is effectively a precursor to befit. commissioner, i cannot support such a proposal without allowing pillar i and pillar ii to be properly implemented in the eu member states, so that we can have a full assessment on its impact.
on behalf of the left. i am in favour of the report by mrs hayer and mr fernandes, because it repeats a firm position of the european parliament which we support from the european people's party to the left, with the negative exception of the anti-european far right. why do we support this report? why we must honour and serve the positive step of the creation of the recovery fund and why we must realize the objectives we have promised to citizens so that we can achieve them without having to cut funding from cohesion, from the common agricultural policy, from innovation, from erasmus. we have to make sure that the commission is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are maintained. we must also be able to get out of this situation, where the european budget remains, under the responsibility of the council, stuck in a completely inadequate 1% of european gdp. with 1% of european gdp, the european budget, ladies and gentlemen and mr hahn, you know very well that the objectives set by the commission, set by the council, and called for even more ambitious by the european parliament cannot be met. we must therefore adopt this report and you, mr hahn, the commissioner, with the support of the european parliament, must press the council to stop the delays and implement the interinstitutional agreement on the agreed steps.
madam president, the nextgenerationeu funds were financed by a joint debt issue and so the covid pandemic has made us break the taboos of european banks. it was a big advance, but now it's time to return that money to the creditors. and we know there's only three ways to do that. either we increase national contributions, which we all know is generating a debate that easily poisons the relations between contributors and net beneficiaries of the eu budget. either we reduce the programmes and policies of the community budget, which is the dream of eurosceptics. either we are making a decisive, if not historic, increase in the union's own resources. i am pleased that this parliament supports the third of these options, that of increasing own resources, and that it does so with these three tax instruments: an increase in the percentage of what is collected on european markets in terms of carbon emissions, carbon adjustment mechanisms at the borders and a business-based own resource. we are thus taking the first steps towards a european tax system. but that's just the first step. we have to go much further. it must be remembered that the union cannot function as an economic and monetary union without a tax union. this must be the ultimate goal, and reforms like those discussed today help us to move towards that goal.
the commissioner is the president. i would like to stress first of all that the role of the rapporteurs, who are extremely consistent in implementing the european parliament's plan, must be respected in order to bring about fundamental changes. it is worth noting that in politics, it is not always the case that someone is consistent and follows a certain plan. the new eu's own income as the discussion on the issue shows has two faces. first, the question is how we will pay off the huge debt in the financial markets: will we have new sources of income, or will we have to change the nature of the european budget altogether and reduce the funding of european policies or increase the contribution to the european union? and the second face that comes up here is the question of what the union should be like. is the income structure to be changed? is the union to be stronger, more independent and more important in financial markets? and the question to the council is: which of these elements is important to the council if the council does not act?
the commissioner is the president. i am a living memory of previous attempts to introduce new resources of the european union. commissioner hahn has testified that these attempts were not successful. what has been done since then? simplify vat and introduce a tax on unused plastic. it's not a very efficient budget power source. in addition, it requires compensation for countries like poland that are not good at using plastic. this new package is delayed, but it's not an option. this is a package that is necessary to pay off large debts without prejudice to the current eu programmes and national envelopes, so it is a question of the credibility of the eu. i hope that the countries that have agreed to the new generation eu with full awareness that it requires new resources are aware of this.
madam president, honourable member, commissioner, colleagues and colleagues! own resources in the european union or its budget will become increasingly important and necessary. the rapporteur said that selfishness was on the rise in the member states. i fear that this selfishness will increase, especially in times of crisis. we will have even more net recipients in the forecast enlargement of the european union. the candidates and potential candidates are less developed countries that expect funding from the european budget or funds. although we have a great advantage in enlargement in all eu member states, citizens, net payers, will be increasingly vocal. we therefore urgently need stable own resources, and of course those who have a large profit on the part of european taxpayers and have so far been taxed too little or almost nothing should be taxed.
madam president, commissioner, my colleagues, nothing can be more important to the functioning of the internal market than resources, own resources. and it's good that we have this report and we're doing an analysis, but i want to make it very clear: we need to stop lending money on the back of the citizen. commissioner, we have agencies that have to deal with, from europol, the european court of auditors, the european public prosecutor's office, which was set up to reduce, if not end, tax evasion, tax havens. so a good policy for our own resources is to collect, not to add taxes. that's why i think it's a very important task, because an expanded domestic market of 35 states will not be able to function unless we end the politics of evasion of the law and the transfer of money to other areas, to tax haven areas. i think we need a new policy, a new way of thinking, but most importantly a correct implementation of tax policies.
madam president, europe wants to serve as a stronghold for citizens against the economic, social and climate crises and, as we see every day, the budgetary issue is central to these struggles. we must fully commit ourselves to the profound transformation of our economic model, a model in which europe can rely on its own resources on budgetary terms, a model in which a real tax on financial transactions, a wealth tax for individuals, an extension of the surplus-profit tax to all sectors that have benefited from the global crises, a minimum european surplus-value tax and all the elements that can finally enable more tax justice to be established. it is imperative for europe to have a more transparent, fairer budget financing system and to provide the european union with own resources. it is not sensible to continue to rely solely on national resources. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the implementation of the programme.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, again, thank you for this valuable and supportive debate. i think your suggestions are legitimate and have always been extremely useful for us. at the same time, as every new economic and political phase has its opportunities and threats, we must constantly evaluate, if not to say re-evaluate the context and reconcile all the elements and constraints. but building on the momentum and, of course, of agreed legislation for sepa and ets, but also on our swift and pragmatic proposal this last summer, we believe it’s high time to get new own resources and we will not spare any effort to support an agreement by june next year. and, once again, thank you for your support. and it was said we should put pressure on the council. i think we have to do it together, but i have no doubts on this. and, once again, thank you for this debate, but also for all your efforts and engagement on this subject.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament will today give the green light to the introduction of three new own resources, three new revenue for the budget of the european union. the council must decide urgently. it is unacceptable for the council to postpone. the decision-making process for own resources is one of the most time-consuming. the european commission has made the proposal, we give the green light, the council has to decide unanimously and the national parliaments ratify it in accordance with its constitution. this unanimity must be used well, it must be used to ensure a balance. it is also not acceptable what i predict. there are member states which will, as usual, use unanimity to try to win in other cases and blackmail the european commission and the other member states. and that will be truly inconceivable and unacceptable. these three resources, a package of resources, there is not just one, this is not just a coincidence. it is also not a coincidence, because one touches one member state, the other touches another member state and the whole balances. so these three resources themselves, which must move forward quickly. the challenges of the european union do not stop. we have a war in ukraine, a war in the middle east, the need for humanitarian aid, the need for the reconstruction of ukraine, the goal of enlargement. more and more challenges that cannot mean more taxes on citizens and, here, the next own resources, in addition to the objective we have set in terms of the environment, in terms of the climate, should also contribute to fiscal justice and to, and i conclude, madam president, the objective of combating tax fraud, tax evasion and tax evasion. and in the european union, the commission accounts for about the equivalent of seven annual budgets, 1 billion euros a year being lost on tax fraud, evasion and tax evasion. we can have more revenue, benefit all citizens of the european union, because the european union budget benefits all and at the same time responds positively and positively to the challenges we face.
the debate is closed and the vote will be held today. written statements (rule 171)
written. we are discussing the commission proposal of 20 june 2023 to amend the financing of the eu budget. the commission wishes to amend and update the plan for the use of its own resources for this purpose, which it presented in december 2021. these fine-tuning measures are intended to ensure that the resources related to the ets and the coal mining mechanism (cbam) are aligned with the outcome of the negotiations for the 55th preparatory package. one of the major changes proposed by the commission is an increase in the amount of own funds under the ets from 25% to 30%. the commission also proposes new own resources based on corporate profits. i want to make it clear that i have serious concerns about this proposal. i am not in favour of creating new own resources, nor of putting more pressure on finland to repay the debts of the eu recovery plan. it is also worth noting that, while the european parliament is trying to find new sources of income, it has little say in approving these new own resources. in conclusion, i note the importance of finding a fair balance between sustainability of financing and ensuring that each member state carries a reasonable burden.
in writing. – the current financing system of the eu budget is structurally deficient. it needs ‘adjustments’. the eu has assumed new commitments and is consequently facing increasing financial pressures. the next generation eu programme already showed the limits of eu budgeting as money needed to be borrowed to finance projects. the covid pandemic, followed by the russia-ukraine war, then the threat of stagflation within the eu, plus the possibility of a major conflict in the middle east have compounded and reinforced financing requirements. conceptually, i agree that we need to plan for the introduction of new own resources to cover ongoing and developing eu commitments. however, in this process, the economic sensitivities of each member state must be respected. the commission proposal does not take this approach. the introduction of new profit-based tax collection systems at an eu level is a problematic proposal for a number of member states. therefore it should not be up for discussion at this time. the constant attempt by major players to enhance eu own resources by imposing a uniform corporate tax at eu-level without the full consent of all member states is unacceptable. this i cannot approve.
in writing. this report gives the european parliament the green light to reform the eu's financial resources. in recent years, the union has made significant efforts to mitigate the impact of the covid-19 pandemic and the russian invasion of ukraine. through nextgenerationeu, the largest recovery plan ever within the european union, we want to rebuild our economy greener, more modern and more competitive. we have entered into a joint debt that the union must be able to meet. the new resources which the eu will be able to use for this purpose will come from the emissions trading system, the carbon border correction mechanism and a greater contribution from multinational technology companies. by further expanding the eu's budgetary force, we will have more room for crisis management and for the further development of successful programmes such as erasmus or horizon europe in the future. we must not demand additional efforts from european taxpayers. on the other hand, major polluters will have to make a greater contribution. we are here to show that the european union can act decisively when necessary, something that even the ever critical citizen cannot and will not escape.
let's move on to the vote.
the agenda is to elect a member of the european parliament (replacing mr monika beňová) (2023/2928 (rso)). i would remind you that, under article 20 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament, the new quesor takes the place of its predecessor in the previous order. the president has been appointed by mr victor negrescu, appointed by the s&d group, to replace mr beňová. the candidate has confirmed his consent to the appointment. since the number of candidates does not exceed the number of seats to be allocated, the candidate shall be elected by acclamation in accordance with article 15 (1) of the regulation, unless a number of members require secret ballot. so i have to ask you, is there a secret screening request? there's no need for it. i hereby declare mr victor negrescu as the elected member of the european parliament. i congratulate mr negrescu on his election. the composition of the new bureau of the presidency shall be notified to the presidents of the institutions of the european union. we shall continue with the vote.
rapporteur. – yes, colleagues, i just have the pleasure to request the referral back to committee for interinstitutional negotiations, as a surprise, following rule 59(4).
the vote is closed. (the sitting is adjourned for a moment)
we shall now proceed to the declarations of vote.
madam president, i was convinced i voted against this report. this report once again introduces legal requirements that will lead to uncertainty in automotive production and lead to higher automotive prices. despite the commitments made not to introduce more standards, we are seeing once again the attempt at a new restriction that will make cars more expensive, which will take away people's ability to have access to transport. it's a reminder of the old soviet times when the right to private, individual, private property was not allowed and european officials would decide who could move and who couldn't move. full of bullshit against all economic logic, against all market logic. this is an environmental political bubble in brussels that once again shows that the people of brussels have lost touch with reality and that what they are doing is only directed against the interests of consumers.
i have voted against euro 7 as an opportunity to reduce the impact of road transport emissions on air pollution and our health. every year in the european union 70 000 people die prematurely from car emissions, 140 per day in italy. but instead of following public health experts, parliament has preferred to listen to the disinformation campaign orchestrated by industry lobbies. the text adopted today is in fact a euro 6a, looking at 2050 with a ten-year-old technology. the industry and most of this house have tried to make us believe that carmakers do not have the resources to invest in reducing pollution caused by their combustion engine vehicles and that the investment will result in unsustainable price increases for buyers. these are lies! the profits of the major carmakers have never been higher and the profits of cars have increased in recent years mainly because of the choice of carmakers to replace small models with heavy and expensive models. on the contrary, with fewer polluting cars we could save over 100 billion public resources at the expense of the environment and health and, most importantly, could save thousands of lives.
madam president, i am pleased to support this compromise. in my view, common sense has won and the proposal protects nature on the one hand and preserves the competitiveness of the european automotive industry on the other. the original version put forward by the commission would make smaller and medium-sized cars affordable for the middle class and would harm both europeans, citizens who buy not only large luxury cars, but also manufacturers. so this proposal makes sense. i'm glad he passed. thank you, the reporter, for negotiating this. i also thank the czech government, which played a major role in this and initiated the council's shift in the views of the member states and the agreement by the countries that view this legislation rationally and not only ideologically. a rational view is more important than an ideological view, and we really need to combine nature and european industry, and thus prevent the growth of chinese industry.
the president has just been asked to comment on the report, and i'm sorry to hear that. i voted for this proposal as it seeks to update the euro emission standards to introduce stricter air pollutant emission limits for internal combustion engine vehicles sold in the eu, with a view to meeting the european green deal's zero pollution ambition very important for the environment and for people's health while at the same time keeping vehicles affordable for consumers and, very importantly, also promoting europe's competitiveness. in line with my previous position on the regulation on co2 standards for cars and vans, i did not support the inclusion of carbon-neutral fuels and biofuels in the legislation. introducing such provisions would further weaken the ambitions of the file, and could bring confusion and uncertainty to the market.
madam president, i supported this proposal because i think it has found a reasonable compromise between addressing the impact of the automotive industry and traffic on human health and the environment and, on the other hand, the competitiveness of our automotive industry as such. it's important to say that the increase in traffic is really alarming. even though emissions are constantly decreasing for individual cars, they are constantly increasing due to the increase in total car volume and production. and it was important to find ambitious but realistic targets that also keep small and medium-sized vehicles available to consumers. i'm glad there's been a compromise on nitrogen and dust particles that need to be reduced. that's not to be denied. we also standardized testing for cars to introduce emissions, or to control emissions as such. i am pleased that the member states are signalling that they will support this proposal, and that is why i also supported it.
madam president, i did not support this material, and it is good to explain why. i am simply concerned that proposals for tax redistribution between the european union and the member states, when the eu's revenues increase, will eventually lead to higher taxes for europeans, because the member states will have to increase their revenues in some way in order to send more money into the so-called common community budget. and that, in short, is what the european will pay, the european companies, the european citizens. someone has to pay for that. i'm a restrained person in cases like this. that is why i did not endorse this proposal, because it does not seem to me entirely responsible that we should put this indirect pressure on tax increases in the european union, especially at this time when we are dealing with energy price increases, etc. this is a matter for debate, but it is also a matter for consideration of who pays the taxes. member states must always be paid by citizens and businesses.
madam president, revising the system of own resources for the eu is all about boosting the eu’s budget, ability to respond to growing demands and new crises, and dealing with the repayment of the nextgenerationeu debt. a new common cooperation tax and a financial transaction tax are clearly good things that simply couldn’t function at an individual member state level. but what will this new basket of own resources be used for? the working people of europe are on their knees with the cost of living crisis. will we be helping the people of europe with this? very unlikely. we will continue to fill the coffers of the military industrial complex. more and more eu money is going on military spend. the militarisation of europe is increasing. we could not throw enough money at the war in ukraine, making sure that didn’t stop, regardless of the number of working-class russians and ukrainians dying. we were oblivious to it, but we were promoting a war that suited the us/nato political agenda, but it has done absolutely nothing for the citizens of europe. this militarisation of europe has nothing to offer the people of europe.
madam president, i voted for this report because, in principle, i do not have a huge problem with the eu raising money through things like taxing corporate profits because somebody has to and, god knows, member states like my own certainly are not going to do it. but there is an elephant in the room, and that is the question of why the eu needs to raise all this money for itself. it just got a eur 1 trillion budget two years ago. where did all the money go? well, we all know where it went: the eu blew all that cash on war and weapons, and now it is passing around the hat for more. it is not just the own resources. the commission has demanded that member states cough up an extra 100 billion – 100 billion – to fatten up the budget that the eu blew on war and militarism. half of that is for ukraine, a country whose destruction we continue to cheerlead. well, shame on you because somebody is making money out of this. and it is certainly not the poor people in ukraine or europe. if the eu wants to find some money, there is an easy way to do it: back a ceasefire in ukraine, stop the war and give that ruined country a chance to rebuild itself.
a uachtaráin, in principle, i am a great believer in own resources for the eu. i think it is a good thing. it means less direct taxation from member states and that in itself will get rid of some of the populism we hear so often about europe taking money from taxpayers directly from the member states. own resources, especially in relation to ets and cbam, makes absolute sense, and it is essential to strengthen the union and also create a sense of unity across the european union, because we need that at this present time. people are always looking for more and more money from the eu, but at the same time, they are saying that they should not be paying into it, that someone else should pay for it. well, by getting the own resources, this certainly will make it easier and particularly to pay back the debt in relation to covid. i would like to compliment commissioner hahn, my friends and colleagues, josé manuel fernandes, siegfried mureșan and others, who have done great work on this, and that is something that we will continue to do to get in accommodation with all member states.
madam president, i voted against this file. promoting the right to participate is obviously a noble goal, but this report twists it into an excuse to pretend that we are somehow in charge to sit in judgement of global south elections and interfere if we don’t like the results. and to be honest with you, after the last month, i am finding it difficult to understand why anybody would think that the rest of the world would give a damn what we think. for weeks, billions have watched us. europe has stood lock, stock and barrel behind our friend apartheid israel. we call israel a democracy. in this democracy, 4.5 million palestinians live under occupation with no rights at all, victims of dehumanisation, arbitrary checkpoints, settler violence, brutalisation by security forces, a military court system and no vote. this is what we call with a straight face the only democracy in the middle east. well it’s over. after the show europe’s made of itself recently, don’t expect the rest of the world to be taking you seriously any time soon.
madam president, the headlines are singing the same tune: the war in ukraine is done; time for negotiations. the best deal ukraine can hope for is what was on offer in april 2022, when zelenskyy and the russians were willing to agree to postpone the crimea issue, strong federalism or autonomy for eastern ukraine with language rights – effectively, the platform zelenskyy was elected on with 73% of the vote. the peace deal in april 2022 was scuppered when boris johnson went to kyiv, threatened zelenskyy, and promised the eu and us sanctions would cripple russia in a matter of months. ukraine is now destroyed. over 200 000 ukrainians and russian soldiers are dead and millions displaced. russia has overtaken the german economy, and is looking at 2 to 3% growth. germany is heading for a recession that is having a knock-on effect on the entire eu, where millions are impoverished by inflation and a cost-of-living crisis – a complete and total abject failure by a murderously incompetent eu leadership. when are we going to wake up and cop onto ourselves? we are not serving the interests of the ordinary people of europe. we’re serving elites, and it’s going to come back to haunt youse.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, has said that the plan for the implementation of the child guarantee, published in the spring of this year, highlights the serious situation in europe and my country as well as in relation to child poverty and social exclusion. the numbers are frightening. 34% of children in the south do not have access to so-called key rights, cannot attend daycare, school dispersion rates among the highest in europe, psychological distress, fatiguing classrooms, lack of full-time dining. housing discomfort, then, and lack of access to quality medical care are the tragic reality of a growing number of children and their families, who are at the same time facing an increasing cost of living. cuts to health, to school and to delays in implementing the pnrr are political choices that are creating the conditions for social disaster. what about meloni's right hand? the right-wing one who's obsessed with birth and the children that come. perhaps it would be more useful to focus on children who already exist and who simply want a dignified life.
on behalf of the ecr group. mrs president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are all part of a family, where life, natural bonds and care are given. growing up in a stable family with affection brings a huge advantage. we wish this luck to every child. those who have felt the selfless love of a family understand their dignity as a person and relate themselves to others in this frequency and can give it back to society. the family is the best social inclusion tool against poverty and inequality. the family must be valued, and it must be the centre of social policies especially in times of crisis. instead, this chamber works to replace it, generating distrust, confronting family members, distancing children from their parents. it aims to end poverty by ending life, when life is the most important good to protect. the best guarantee for a child is his family. let's help parents do their job well.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, madam commissioner, the current situation within the european union should encourage you to be humble, because the successive crises, inflation, uncertainty and insecurity facing our citizens are also and above all the political choices of the european union. we regret today that children's rights are no longer respected and are affected by poverty. but who has imposed drastic austerity measures on member states for years? who has blamed the member states for their spending on health and social care for years? who today wants to dictate its priorities to the member states, if not the european union? your statements and texts are the result of pontiffs on the brink of indecency. we did not wait for the eu to wake up and suddenly become a great social protector to become aware of the dramatic situation facing our citizens, and especially our children. what else does the european union propose but endless lists of godly wishes? of course, our children deserve the best. of course, everyone must have the right to safety, education and a healthy environment in which to grow and thrive. but what does the european union propose, if not contradictory messages, between calls for funding everything and everything, and ultimately priority given to all other subjects? by depriving member states of their freedom to act in a calm manner according to their needs, by preventing them from giving value to work or strengthening their service through national policies which they deem necessary, you condemn our children to grow up in a world that no longer protects them. the least of these things would be to stop teaching and finally act.
- your honor, madam president, i would like to thank you. the series of crises in recent years has affected our countries extremely hard, and even those member states that have performed very well in the last ten years, such as child poverty, have increased poverty by 20% in the last period, and 83% of roma children in europe now live in poverty. in 2011, it was the house and the european commission that launched the roma europe strategy, and we are very pleased that the spanish presidency has carried on this task and launched anti-segregation measures. the reinforced control, feedback system that we've been building, the complex management of different policy areas, right here, education, housing, employment, health care, and the concrete commitments, have been crippled by these last two years, when pandemics, war, inflation have had a very negative impact on our communities. so we're particularly pleased that the current presidency of the trio has finally started to change, to provide housing close to the right school, to offer foster care, and to eliminate segregation in housing, education and workplace. we must support poor families.
mr president, commissioner, in each plenary session we hear so much about the various crises that have plagued europe, and the effects they have on all its citizens. and governments have seen how they will help people protect themselves. but there is one group that cannot protect itself. and so we say that children are vulnerable. because they cannot change their situation. because they depend on others. because poverty will envelop him. and we know that the effects of poverty will continue to be felt even as he grows older. that's not fair. and today, as we celebrate world children's day, we want to recognize that nearly a quarter of all children are at risk of poverty. this is despite the fact that europe is a continent based on the values of equality and dignity. and that means that everyone has a chance for a better life, no matter who they are, where they come from. i believe that our society will not be fair, as long as there are still children who are hungry, with easy access to education and health. much has been done in favor of the children, but much remains to be done. and this resolution is another step in the right direction. we have a child guarantee, true, but we need it to work better. colleagues, if we want a bright future for our children. we need to put children's lives and health at risk, in all the work we do.
the netherlands is unfortunately no exception to the rest of europe. in our country too, parents with children are short of up to 500 euros a month. and we have to say: i can't do that anymore. children who grow up in poverty feel the effects throughout their lives. school, the labour market and their health. and for those missed opportunities, not only they, but we all pay the price. because every child who grows up in poverty has one too many. we have elections on wednesday and the new cabinet must come not with empty promises but with concrete measures. increase the minimum wage and parental support. invest in daycare and school lunches for children. it's the only way we can tackle child poverty.
the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to do this. let us use this international day of the rights of the child to send a powerful message of unity. the covid-19 pandemic has deprived these children of the education and social contacts necessary for their development. poverty and insecurity still unfairly deprive too many children in europe. we owe them a clear political response based on the inclusion of all. we must plan for longterm investments that will enable quality early childhood services to be provided. this includes staff trained to the needs and rhythms of the child. we cannot forget the most vulnerable. the implementation of the european child guarantee must ensure that everyone has access to school, decent housing, healthcare and healthy food. our aim should not only be to reduce inequalities but also to prevent them from occurring. it is our collective responsibility to forge a future where every child can flourish and realize their dreams.
dear madam president, a child does not choose the family he or she is born into. so it's our job as politicians and as a society to help him throughout his life. every child has the same rights, whether born in france or slovakia, whether born in a palace or in a small one-room apartment. but how many children, despite our efforts, are still at risk of poverty? fortunately, children rarely die of malnutrition, but what are their next choices? hot food is not a natural thing for every family every day. i'm not even talking about healthy fruits and vegetables, which are also not available to some children during the winter because of the high prices. not every child can choose the school they want, because it is often chosen based on the family's financial ability and the travel that the family can afford. and we're not talking about other options, like rings that help kids develop their talents, because when a family doesn't have the money, it's just not a ring. children are our future, and they should have the same good conditions to have every chance for the future to be astronauts, doctors, researchers, or builders.
madam president, on the day we mark world day of children's rights, there seems to be little reason to celebrate. one in four children in the european union is at risk of poverty and social exclusion. worldwide, an estimated 333 million children live in extreme poverty, and according to unicef, about 1 billion children face what is called multidimensional poverty, meaning they lack a broad set of access to basic needs, such as nutritious food or clean water. as if that were not enough, the number of violent conflicts or wars is currently the highest in 30 years. and as we know, children are the main victims of these conflicts. the latest developments are particularly alarming, with more than 5 000 children estimated to have been murdered in gaza, with about 1 800 still missing and about 9 000 injured. we can't stand for the prosecution of these crimes. this is largely insufficient. it is imperative that international law be respected and that indiscriminate attacks on children be stopped. the commission is also calling for the creation of a european union of a new dimension for the fight against child labour. and above all, ensure a decent life for their families. let us not forget: there is no child poverty. what is there are poor families that prevent the guarantee of a dignified life for all children.
mrs president, colleagues and colleagues, thirty-four years ago, on the day that students in czechoslovakia stood up against the communist dictatorship, the convention on the rights of the child was adopted in new york on 20 november. i will mention two introductory provisions here. the first one says that children deserve special care and attention. and the second one says that the family is the best environment for the child, and that's why the family deserves support too. social policy is to help parents manage their role. but today's discussion is taking place at a time when thousands of children are suffering from hamas's conflict and violence against israel and israel's retaliation. i see this conflict through the eyes of these suffering children and i would very much like the hostages to be released as soon as possible and that this conflict can be ended. i also see today's discussion through the eyes of deported ukrainian children, with whom putin took their childhood, which they have a right to.
madam president, madam commissioner, dear colleagues, it has been 34 years since the international day of the rights of the child was declared. and how are we? we have five million children in poverty, and i'm not talking about the crisis, the pandemic, the war, i'm talking about the fact that in the last 34 years, the crisis of children's rights has actually deepened. i'm not just talking about the fact that there are kids who, maybe, eat less or sleep in less heat. i mean, they're being torn apart so many times, the kids, from the family, and nothing is more precious than the love of a mother and a parent. i think that we should look at the european union and, of course, the member states. i've been dealing with cases of children being taken away, who were recovered by families after three, four, five years, children who were left with trauma. why were those children taken? for imagined reasons? often they do, because the family is poor. but let's get involved here, to ensure families, parents, jobs, income, so that children grow up in families and not in those centers and institutions of the state.
madam president, commissioner and colleagues, on world children’s day, i want to focus on two issues. firstly, foster care is part of the european child guarantee and it is, of course, a recommended intervention for the most vulnerable children, preferred over residential care. however, foster care is delivered in a very incoherent way across member states. there are no common standards for the delivery of foster care or for training of foster parents. we recently adopted a position on aspects of cross-border adoptions, and we should do the same regarding foster care and the brussels convention in particular. secondly, as minister for children in ireland, i introduced a scheme that delivered early childhood care and education. the intention was that this would lead to the increased professionalisation of workers in this sector, so that they could diagnose early developmental delays in children and design appropriate interventions, and i hope that that’s where it goes. finally, it is impossible on world children’s day not to repeat what the who’s dr mike ryan said: the best medicine for the children of gaza is a ceasefire.
madam president, the convention on the rights of the child was adopted on this day in 1989 by the un. the us still has not signed it. israel has killed over 5000 children in the last six weeks, thanks to the support of the us and the eu. american journalist chris hedges was in an al jazeera studio watching a live feed from gaza city of israel attacking al-shifa hospital: ‘a deliberate attack on a hospital. a deliberate war crime. a deliberate massacre of the most helpless civilians, including [...] infants. then the feed goes dead. [...] we know what this means. no power. no water. no internet. no medical supplies. every infant in an incubator will die. [...] everyone who needs emergency surgery will die.’ let there be no doubt israel, the us and the eu are sending a chilling message to the rest of the world: international and humanitarian law, the convention on the rights of the child are meaningless pieces of paper. they did not apply in iraq or afghanistan and they do not apply in gaza. they do not hate us for our values; maybe they hate us because we do not have any.
the commissioner said that the number of children under 18 at risk of poverty or social exclusion is increasing by almost 20 million in 2022. as always, in crisis situations, such as the covid-19 pandemic or the aftermath of the war in ukraine, the highest price is paid by children and among these the most affected, once again, are the most fragile: children from immigrant backgrounds, refugees, unaccompanied minors but also children from single-parent families, children with disabilities and children belonging to ethnic minorities. the european child guarantee is a fundamental tool to combat the unacceptable poverty of millions of children in europe and must certainly be strengthened. it is now up to the member states to implement effective national action plans so that every child in europe can truly be guaranteed a healthy and harmonious development, as enshrined in the united nations convention on the rights of the child.
madam president, it’s world children’s day, the day when we commemorate the signing of the un convention on the rights of the child – the most widely ratified human-rights treaty ever; the world united around the protection of children. well, aren’t we great? it’s about time that we wake up and smell the white phosphorus, the burning flesh of children torched alive in gaza. wake up and hear their screams over the dead bodies of their parents, their severed limbs, their blinded eyes, their parched lips, their starving stomachs. feel their terror day after day after day after day, as the bombs rain down on their homes, their schools, their hospitals. on and on it goes. all the great nations that signed this great treaty to protect children sit on their hands, and we pat ourselves on the back in places like this, while not just doing nothing, but enabling that israeli genocide against children to continue. well, the people of the world have seen through your complicity. if you mean a morsel of concern for children, stop the slaughter, demand a ceasefire.
madam president, in the aftermath of cop27, where progress and setbacks were laid bare, our attention is now sharply focused on the imminent cop28 and the pressing matter of climate finance. first and foremost, the pivotal role played by the european union in un climate talks must be recognised and persist in the upcoming discussions in dubai. the question at the forefront remains: who will bear the financial burden and how soon? some progress has been made. recognising the unique vulnerabilities of many nations is crucial, in particular those susceptible to extreme weather events such as in the caribbean. we are emphasising the urgent need for increased climate financing. such financing is not just an investment in environmental resilience, it is a fundamental step towards achieving social and economic stability. it is imperative that developed countries follow through on their commitments, and that includes china and the us. failure to do so risks exacerbating global instability and reopening discussions on historical responsibility and compensation, precisely at a time when increased international cooperation is vital. secondly, trade has too often been the missing link when responding to the climate crisis. therefore i welcome the fact that it is part of the agenda at cop28. so i look forward to a successful cop28 and hopefully that the usual people who are always criticising everything won’t be getting the headlines afterwards.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. we are once again on the brink of a global climate change policy. last year was one of the hottest years on record worldwide. it's going to get hotter this year. last year, 32 million people fled the effects of the climate crisis, and there will be more. last year we lost over 1.5 million hectares of european forest, and we need to do something about that. that's why this cop is so damn important, even if it's led by a former oil manager or rather, that's why. we need a breakthrough in the international compensation fund for the poorest of the poor who are suffering from the climate crisis. mr wopke, i am pleased that you are here today and that you have given us a very clear statement in your hearings to support this climate fund, this compensation fund. i hope that as the european union we will succeed in doing this, and that is what we will actually measure this cop.
madam president, dear colleagues, commissioner, cop28 is a great opportunity for the eu to enhance and reinforce its leadership towards the climate neutrality until 2050. we are fulfilling our commitments, and the latest concrete example is the recent agreement between the parliament and the council on the eu regulation to reduce the energy sector’s methane emissions in europe and in our global supply chain. as we are preparing to travel to dubai, it is important to highlight that in the position of the european parliament has to be reflected that the major emitters should make a fair contribution to the loss and damage fund agreed at last year’s cop27. it is important to collectively deliver and address our climate goals in order to protect our planet, our society and our economies. only for the european economic area, the so-called climate gap, the bill we pay in order to address the consequences of natural disasters is eur 12 billion annually after 2020. we are going to see all major emitters in the world to reduce their emissions, as agreed in the former cops. this applies particularly to china, whose per-capita co2 emissions are already higher than the eu. we also have to underline the need to support the global energy transition at cop28 by pushing to end fossil fuel subsidies by 2027 and to phase out fossil fuels altogether. in the current geopolitical situation, we can understand that the need for the urgency of cutting dependence on fossil fuels is here, and the need to boost the deployment of renewables is also here. towards this effort, all actors have to scale up their efforts to mobilise financing from all sources to support climate action and look for effective pathways to facilitate, to direct access to climate finance to local and regional authorities.
the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, has said that climate change is an existential challenge that threatens our present and the future of future generations. the recent tragic calamities that have struck my country in tuscany, emilia romagna and the marche speak very clearly: the commission has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented in a timely manner. this cop 28 is a critical step in the process, as the much-anticipated first review of the implementation of the paris agreement of 2015 will also take place. we, as the european union, are moving: we are trying to set the example by moving forward, pursuing these goals set out in the green deal as true pioneers. all our industrial conversion efforts, paid for by businesses and citizens, must be paid for by all the other major players in the world. the credibility of our citizens is at stake. if we don't build alliances, we're all going to be defeated. i hope that our governments will make their voices heard loud and clear: time is the only capital we can't afford to lose anymore. we'll act now or it'll be too late.
madam president, cop conferences are now mostly theatres of climate colonialism, led mainly by corporations, powerful governments of the global north and elites, where we see a performance of diversion and delay with little or no substance, repeated annually. but the staging of cop in the uae, one of the biggest oil producers on the planet, a country that is waging war in yemen and that has an absolutely appalling human rights record, is surely the final straw. we will never tackle the climate crisis if we don’t tackle inequality. oxfam’s ‘climate equality: a planet for the 99%’ report this week says the richest 1% of humanity is responsible for more carbon emissions than the poorest 66%. this is the great carbon divide. limiting the rise in global surface temperatures to 1.5 degrees is only possible by reallocating society’s productive capacity away from enabling the private luxury of a few and austerity for everyone else, and towards wider public prosperity and private sufficiency.
madam president, i think many people will be watching the news about cop28 and wondering what’s the actual point of it, not just because of where it is, but because year on year we fail to act. of course there needs to be a dedicated space for multilateralism, but cop isn’t working, and one of the key reasons for that is that the global north has failed in its responsibility towards those areas of the world that are most affected by climate change. we promised 100 billion by 2020, even though they needed actually 4 trillion, but we couldn’t even deliver on that. and even of the monies that were delivered upon, 71% of that public climate finance was in the form of loans. now let’s think about what that actually means. last year, pakistan was at the front line in terms of the climate crisis, with floods displacing 33 million people. so when they should have been spending money rebuilding homes in the aftermath, they were using 50% of the country’s annual revenue to pay back foreign creditors. if this is the way forward, we’re doing the world a disservice and we and they cannot afford it.
i am speaking to this house, ladies and gentlemen, in the knowledge that europe's positions on environmental policies are divergent but the objective which we must pursue through our political action is to return a more sustainable planet to the new generations. and that is why man must be at the heart of an economic strategy that does not sacrifice the development vision that member states need to face the great challenges that this complex historical context poses. a european law on zero-emission industry can be shared insofar as it does not constitute strict perimeters because, while we are in favour of decarbonisation pathways, it is equally true that we do not accept, driven by ideological fury, random choices that can compromise the social fabric in our community. the ets directive could teach us something, but i also think that the 'net zero emissions industries' initiative could be a concrete response to the risk of a strong industrial relocation overseas, due to the parallel us ira law which provides for government funding doping for companies dealing with green energy. i therefore reiterate that we cannot put off the possibility of a european sovereignty fund that would prevent the fragmentation of the single market but is, above all, indispensable to avoid the risks of weakening european cohesion.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of certain products. but the challenge today and it is a european challenge and only at this level can we play and win is the challenge of maintaining this competitiveness through the long transition to sustainability of our production machinery, avoiding falling into new dependencies (batteries, raw materials, chips) and also avoiding falling into the trap of those who would like us, as a european system, to be in a position of inferiority to the global economic system. the choice to focus on net zero technologies and strategic technologies is right, it's the right path. and being on the upstream of technology is the key to being competitive in innovation, not in production and outdated technology, as we risk becoming today. environment, technology, research and human capital, as colleague lina gálvez pointed out, that is to say, the education and the idea of academia, are a positive cycle and we hope that there will be a great deal of commitment to this innovation. the last comment i would like to make to the commission and the council is: where is the promised sovereignty fund? it is good to have an advanced technological framework, it is good to have an environmental policy but what is lacking are the resources and the promised sovereign wealth fund should be the right way forward.
madam president, i am not going to say anything. we are looking at a new worldview, a new world order, geopolitical, security and indeed industrial policy, and this requires a european response, and this is the net zero industry act, a good example of this, and there is a lot of good pace in what we have on the table today, for example the whole subject of permits, so-called 'permitting'. and a very concrete example of why this is important is what is happening in the european wind industry, in the european wind sector. if we are going to have one in 10 or 20 years, i mean, it requires us to go ahead and do something like what is on this agenda. we must avoid unfair competition from china. we must not make the same mistakes we have made in the past by being too dependent on suppliers and individual countries. it requires even greater european independence and a wise green european industrial policy so that we can have green production in europe within ten years. the regulation on the net fuel industry is a good answer to that.
madam president, at the basis of many technologies reducing carbon emissions, we find semiconductors, chips. better, faster chips, better system designs – these are often the main drivers of reducing co2 emissions. but true industrial policy, dear colleagues, is therefore bringing together industries and technologies downstream, and the net-zero industry act has the unique opportunity to bring the chip sector closer to the clean tech industry. yet – yet – we see no mention of chips, no mention of semiconductors in the net-zero industry act. in fact, instead of synergies, chips are excluded from the scope, and this unnecessarily obstructs the joint research, it obstructs joint ventures, joint academic cooperation and talent development. i fully support what has been done on the net-zero industry by the rapporteur. great work by the commission, great work. but when it comes to reaching zero obstacles and net-zero obstacles between chips and between net-zero technologies, much can be done.
- mrs. president, please. thank you for your word. i also want to thank the net zero act, both the commission and mr. ehler's reporter. the act is urgently needed. unfortunately, we didn't wake up until the americans issued their ira act, which responded to the key challenges of the time. we also realized in europe that we needed industry and we needed decarbonisation. and that we need industry to be present in europe. and i think it's important that we recognize what americans are, that technological neutrality is essential. so we can't choose which technology is green and which is low-carbon, but instead we use the term low-carbon and in this way we give our place to nuclear energy, which fortunately has found its place in this act as well. i am delighted to be a rapporteur for small modular reactors and that they too will have a future in the decarbonisation of the european union. more pragmatism, more respect for technological neutrality, and we will certainly continue to be the world's leading de-carboniser in europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has certainly proposed a strategy for re-industrialisation. finally, the european union needs to reduce its dependence on imports from third countries more and more. we know exactly what happened in the pandemic. the value chains are not being rebuilt and it is obvious that the transition should not disrupt smes. so i think we need to rely on innovation, research, technology, of course, with low emissions, but we can't stay dependent on third countries. so i think it's good -- and it's good that the report mentioned this -- that we have to strike this balance in re-industrialization, in modern technologies that are low-emission, but we have to complement our value chains and become competitive, because dependence on third countries makes us uncompetitive and pulls us out of the global market.
madam president, the net zero industry act is presented as europe’s answer to the inflation reduction act, the usd 360 billion so-called clean-technology investment initiative launched by the us last year, which completely caught the eu off guard, enacted as it was when europe was on its knees from the repercussions and the energy crisis triggered by the sanctions on russia, and raising the prospect of wide industrial relocation to the us. but the question that has to be asked here is: does this initiative genuinely contribute to environmental protection and decent jobs, or is it, as it would appear, just a con to really transfer public money into private hands with zero accountability? because the expedited administrative process does pose a risk to losing control over activities, exemplified by the ‘silence-means-approval’ rule, weakening authorities’ oversight; the extension of the list of supposedly clean technologies, including activities on natura 2000 lands, raises concerns about this project. we have to do a lot better.
madam president, the general direction of the net-zero technologies act report isn’t good and is even a significant weakening of the commission’s proposal, which already left plenty to be desired. the report proposes to give public money to private enterprises with little or no conditions. it says nothing about workers’ rights and conditions. it dilutes the strategic focus we need on wind and solar and on batteries and heat pumps. it expands the list of net-zero technologies in a way that virtually any technology can benefit, including nuclear technology. the report also proposes to permit, in certain circumstances, the placing of industrial clusters, the so-called net zero industrial valleys, in natura 2000 sites. of course the eu needs to rapidly speed up the green transition, and of course the eu needs to create good-quality and secure green jobs for workers at home. but let’s not burn our bridges with the rest of the world either.
in the name of the s&d club. - mr. chairman, thank you. has it ever happened to you that you tried to fix the device, but the repair was too expensive? according to my research, as many as 81 percent of croatian citizens have exactly such experiences. and not when you need to set aside 430 euros for a tv replacement screen that costs 350 euros. even 90% of citizens think spare parts are too expensive. under such conditions, services are turned off and citizens are forced to throw and buy new ones again. in my proposal to empower consumers for the green transition, we made sure that the breakdowns were as low as possible. first of all, the ban on built-in defects and information on the price and repair conditions for each customer. however, if a breakdown occurs, the consumer must be able to repair the product without major problems. moreover, if the repair is delayed, a replacement product must be obtained. in order for the right to repair to become a reality, we must ensure cheap spare parts and the availability of designs and tools to citizens and independent waiters. products that cannot be repaired should not be discarded, but recycled. those who act irresponsibly should be stopped and citizens given the savings and right to repair!
on behalf of the renew faction. president, is there a crack in your smartphone screen, is there water leaking from your washing machine or does your vacuum cleaner seem broken? we've all been through this before, and it's very annoying. when products break down, we quickly replace them with new ones. but of course there are also cheaper and more environmentally friendly alternatives. that's what i'm talking about. and with this new law, it will be easier, more cost-effective and more sustainable to repair broken products. how are we gonna do this? among other things, by stimulating the repair market. more spare parts will also be available. it should also become more attractive for repair cafes and small-scale repairers to just do their job. no more unnecessary administration, because by repairing more, we ensure that products last longer and reduce waste. and it's good for your wallet. we're all saving a lot of money, we're looking after the environment, and we're encouraging businesses to deal with products more sustainably. and your oh-so-loved smartphone, washing machine or vacuum cleaner? it's as good as new.
madam president, i am not going to say anything. because not long ago, my washing machine broke down, and i called the repairman to see if he'd come out and fix it. by the way, that washing machine was only a little over two years old. then he tells me that he thinks it's a bad idea. it'll be more expensive for me to get my washing machine fixed than to go out and buy a new one. of course, i checked it out and it turned out to be completely correct! and i'm not alone. when you look at europe's landfills, bunkers of washing machines, printers, phones, textiles and everything else pile up. it's a waste of the planet's resources, and it's a burden on our environment, it's a challenge to our wallets, and we end up buying new too often instead of getting repaired. but fortunately we now face a new eu law where this could change. it's gotta be over that it's gotta be harder to get your stuff fixed than it is to buy new ones. with the proposal now on the table, we have an opportunity to know how to get our things repaired and what it will cost to get them repaired, how long there are spare parts, and of course also an extension of this guarantee if we actually end up getting our things repaired. i believe that all this is essential if we are to achieve the green transition. we need to get our stuff fixed instead of just throwing it out. i therefore fully support the new law in force and thank rapporteur repasi in particular for doing a really good job here. i'm looking forward to seeing the final result.
the commissioner is the president. tomorrow we're going to vote on the right to repair directive. this directive is very important for several reasons. first, the new law will ensure that the equipment we buy is more durable and easier to repair. this means that our washing machines, refrigerators, and cell phones will serve us longer. that's good news for our portfolios, but also good news for the environment. another benefit is the development of local correction services. in my region, in mazowska, we have many capable entrepreneurs who will now be able to grow their business by offering repairs. this means more jobs in the region and more support for the local economy. third, thanks to the efforts of our group of european conservatives and reformers, we have managed to simplify the rules and reduce bureaucracy. now repairs will be faster and less complicated, and access to spare parts will be easier. i believe that the directive will give people in the european union more control over their purchases and a longer life of products, as well as better legal guarantees.
madam president, 35 million tonnes of waste, i do not know if we can imagine. this is the result of the destruction of repairable objects which are not repaired every year. but that's not all. in addition to these 35 million tonnes of unrepaired objects, there is the environmental cost. this represents no less than 30 million tonnes of wasted resources and an additional 261 million tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions for the european union alone. don't throw it away, the cup is full. the consequences for the citizen's portfolio are also high, which often fails to be repaired and is being replaced, and which costs €12 billion a year. that is unacceptable, of course. it is therefore essential to facilitate the possibility of repairing and to enable citizens to consume more sustainably. repair rather than replacement should be the key word now. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr repasi, on his commitment to this fundamental issue for consumers and for our society more broadly.
madam president, mr commissioner, dear colleagues, of course, many times citizens ask us what we do for them, specifically, what we do for them? here's a new example: in addition to roaming, in addition to the common charger, we are now giving consumers and citizens in our countries something concrete again: the right to repair. let's not imagine that it hasn't been repaired yet, but everyone had to deal with it, sometimes they paid a lot, gave up repairs... now, there are some things that are quite clear here, but it is important that the member states are involved, because they have to take into account what we regulate here: that they have - every member state, at least a platform where the consumer can meet with the repairers, where they can go to fix. and it is very important what you said, commissioner: the product must be repairable, because if it makes it a one-time use, for nothing, the consumer can no longer do it. that's why i'm going to be very supportive and i hope this report will be passed tomorrow, because it brings something very good, on the one hand for consumers, on the other hand, to reduce waste, because we all know how much waste has increased from all products.
madam president, to achieve the ecological transition, it is essential to transform our single market. each consumer must be able to choose to get his goods repaired so that we can talk about a truly sustainable market. the right to repair is essential. it has been said for ten years and it has been done today. at least here in parliament. waste is expensive and produces a lot of waste, so we must encourage repair. choosing repair means being better informed and having better guarantees. repair also creates competitive local spare parts markets close to home. the direction is clear: we must now negotiate with the council vigorously to maintain this level of ambition. our aim is to create a europe of concrete solutions and a circular economy. with this proposal, we are putting in place effective solutions for consumers and sustainable production. and we are also in some ways continuing our fight against programmed obsolescence.
mr president, mr commissioner, mr rapporteur on the report, i grew up hearing that my grandmother's refrigerator was unbreakable or that the battery of the new iphone would last much longer than the previous one. it is not nostalgia for the past, it is the essential demand for a change in the current market to have durable products. on the other hand, tech giants use their software to control and cost repairs to their electronic devices with the so-called part pairing. according to the european commission, we produce 35 million tonnes of waste from premature disposal of goods. consumers who opt for replacement rather than repair lose 12 million euros a year. to protect families and the environment we must improve the guarantee system for these products, promote independent repair points and, thirdly, ensure that spare parts arrive quickly and affordably. in europe, we want a market that protects the life of products and ends premature obsolescence. with the approval of this report, we are taking a step further in the right to repair so that the environment and our pockets are also aware of it.
mr president, right to repair needs to be affordable, accessible and mainstream. it also needs to be protected from monopoly practices, so the right to repair needs to guarantee unrestricted access to spare parts and software, to comprehensive information, and to affordable repair services. the regulation should support local, grassroots and community repair initiatives, co-ops and social enterprises. the scope of the regulation in terms of the types of goods covered is still too narrow, but still, there’s a lot to be positive about. however, we can still do much more to tackle consumption. the parliament’s 2021 report on the circular economy action plan called on the commission to propose targets to significantly reduce the eu’s material and consumption footprints by 2030 and bring them within planetary boundaries by 2050. binding eu material-footprint reduction targets would be a game changer. will the commission go to that space, commissioner?
mr president, reliability is a key aspect of sustainability. supporting the facilitation of the repair of goods contributes to reducing waste, minimizing the depletion of resources and ultimately to mitigating our impact on the environment. in addition, it is in line with the principles of economic efficiency. we encourage local businesses by supporting repair companies and qualified professionals. we also contribute to job creation, especially in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. by extending product life through repairs, we reduce demand for new production, helping to save raw materials and energy. consumers should have the right to repair the products they own and manufacturers should make this process as accessible and simple as possible. enabling authorisations strengthens consumers, promotes a sense of ownership and reduces reliance on one-off and often more expensive alternatives. people used to have fewer things and often gave up and when they broke up, they repaired them. today, the trend is to buy new things, throw away old ones, and endless advertisements encourage us to buy more and more. i support mr repasi's proposal to promote the right and protection of consumers' rights in the matter of repairing goods they have purchased.
mr president, (start of speech off mic) ... really was a neoliberal dream: produce something, make sure it doesn’t last, and then force the person to buy it all over again, and on and on it goes. but this way of living has no future. global waste is due to grow by 70% at today’s levels by 2050 unless we act urgently. and where is it all going? to places like toxic city in ghana, a former wetland turned into a 16 square kilometre dump for europe’s old electric equipment, around which 40 000 people live. this has to stop, and i think that we need to radically bring back the repair economy, with public support and legal obligations on companies, and the legislation is a very good first step in connecting consumers to repairers, but most importantly, we need to strengthen the legal guarantee on products. no product should be designed to break after two years. companies should be responsible for what they put on the market.
member of the commission. – mr president, even though i cannot not physically see you, very good to have you. and, ladies and gentlemen, fantastic to see all of you here at this late hour, but for a very important topic. to become climate neutral, deep emission cuts will always be at the core of our efforts, and i want you to know that there is no misunderstanding whatsoever on that first principle. that challenge is for all sectors of our economy, from industry to agriculture. with your support for the ‘fit for 55’ package, you have already set the right pathway to reduce greenhouse gases as far as we can. but at the same time, we also have to be realistic. analysis shows that it is impossible to bring all our emissions completely, totally to zero. and that means that carbon removals, that is to say, the absorption and storage of co2 in nature or industrial solutions, simply will have to be a part of the solution space in our journey to climate neutrality. we will simply need these solutions and we need them at scale. carbon removals will play a key role in the commission’s upcoming analysis of where the 2040 climate target could and should be. so it is essential to already start the groundwork on boosting these removals. in view of the challenge ahead, we will need to mobilise considerable investment in industrial carbon removal technologies, in carbon farming, such as peatland restoration or cover crops, and in carbon storage in long-lasting products, such as wooden buildings and, of course, in construction. so it is truly excellent that you are about to vote on the first-ever european framework for carbon removal certification. this tool will give farmers, foresters, companies a business case to invest in and deploy carbon removals. with this framework, they can certify high-quality carbon removals that have robust climate and environmental benefits, and earn good money with it. for example, by selling their certificates to banks that are keen to have a portfolio that is truly sustainable. and i want to thank you, i want to thank your parliament and especially rapporteur lidia pereira and the shadow rapporteurs – there you are – to improve our proposal ahead of a successful plenary vote tomorrow. may i say that i see a lot of alignment, a lot of alignment between all of us. let me briefly mention three elements. first, we agree that for carbon removals to work, we must fight greenwashing and instead create trust with transparent, high-quality carbon removals. without that, there is no way forward. second, i see move in parliament to include emission reductions from livestock production in the carbon farming space. and it is a big extension to all of our proposal. if you would vote for it, let’s make sure that there is a clear distinction between emission reductions and carbon removals. that is very important for market transparency and for trust. third, i see various proposals that task us, the commission, to follow up with work to improve the deployment and tracking of carbon removal products. there are ideas in this esteemed parliament to have a europe-wide registry of certified carbon removals, or for the commission to come up with technical criteria to make carbon removals work. let us indeed discuss further which idea we can take forward to help the emerging marketplace best and also by taking into account the resources at our disposal. overall, mr president, i think that the report of madam pereira is a very good basis for negotiations with member states in the council. so let’s go ahead and empower our rural communities and our industry to what is effectively a double win, for the climate and for business. and with that win-win, the market can start a race to the top rather than to the bottom, and towards the carbon removals that our continent and the world so desperately need.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. we need negative emissions, and we need them as soon as possible. that's the clear message of the ipcc. and this legislation is a very important step in getting us to negative emissions faster. i would like to thank everyone who has helped us to hope that tomorrow we will have a wide majority in the plenary, especially lídia pereira and her team with luis and lawrence, but also everyone else. we will first see that private capital flows into these markets because there is a clearer framework now, and i also see this as an income opportunity for farmers who are farming carbon additional sources of income. but we also need these technical solutions. i was very impressed when i was first told how direct air capture works. it is now possible to extract co2 from the air and make products from it. it's, of course, endlessly expensive, but just as expensive as photovoltaics were in the '90s, it's almost uncompetitively cheap today. we must therefore start promoting this technology as quickly as possible, and i think that at least this technology should be included in european emissions trading as soon as possible. so a clear signal: we need the negative emissions as soon as possible, and we need incentives for everyone who invests in this area.
in the name of the s&d faction. mr president, i would like to thank you very much and congratulate you on your election. i am glad to see you again, commissioner. i am not sure what the commission is doing. first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur, lídia, for the great cooperation, for the many meetings we have had together. i think that was a very constructive work we did here across the factional boundaries and thereby creating a good framework legislation. i am very sure that this law, if we vote on it, will create a good framework for carbon regulation in the european union. and that we need clear rules for that, all experts agree very much. the world climate council also says that without negative emissions, our climate targets cannot be achieved even if we completely decarbonise energy production, if we completely transform the industry. we will always have areas where emissions continue to occur, and that is why negative emissions are so important both technological and natural emissions. and at the same time, we've had to see in the last few years that with the extraction of carbon, with the offsetting, there's been an incredible amount of scum, a lot of greenwashing. the collapse of the verra dealership clearly shows that there is a pressing need for strict and good rules which we are proposing from the environment committee. we are creating a standard on which companies, engineers, but especially our farmers can establish sustainable business models, and with this standard we also create trust. that's got to be trust. i think we need to make sure that with every withdrawal, the restoration of biodiversity is actively supported. we need to prevent monocultures and short-term take-over effects, and finally we need to make sure that we need clear rules when using biomass in combination with co2 storage, which we also call beccs. all emissions, including those from land use, must be included so that the demand for biomass does not increase further. i am very much looking forward to the vote and thank you once again for the constructive cooperation and i am already looking forward to the trilogy.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, commissioner, colleagues, to achieve our climate targets, we need three things: we need drastic cuts in emissions; we need drastic increase of carbon removals; and we need viable businesses and farmers that can remove and sequester carbon from the atmosphere. these two final points have so far been neglected a lot in the eu climate agenda, but that ends now. that’s why i’m really proud of what we are doing here. as far as i know, this is the world’s first law in certifying carbon removals – with this proposal, with clear business opportunities for the companies and farmers who are doing the right things. that’s why i am so proud standing here today as renew shadow of this file. because this text is very much influenced by the renew proposals. we are increasing the climate integrity as well as creating competitiveness for our companies. but colleagues, this is only the first steps. we are not done. this is only certifying the carbon removals. the next steps is creating the market, boosting the market, stimulating the carbon removals that we much need in order to fulfil our climate agenda. that’s why i really look forward to starting the discussion with the commission and council already next week.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, the vote in the environment committee significantly improves the commission’s proposal, but that was a low bar. this is still far from being a good climate instrument. despite the improvements, the biggest problem is that the text now actually encourages double claiming between a member state and a cooperation. that sounds crazy. it is great that we are now proposing to ban offsetting to a large extent, but not all offsetting loopholes have been closed just yet. this regulation has the potential to be hugely positive. it could – and should – be used to facilitate a separate eu carbon removal target, which would facilitate a hugely significant move away from the net-zero basis of eu climate policy. carbon removals should be a public good. this is a question of climate justice. removals will be a very limited resource in the near future, and what constitutes so-called unavoidable emissions should not be left to the markets and to those who can pay the most to decide.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not going to be able to do this. we have set ourselves an important goal: we want to become climate neutral in the european union in about 25 years. if we are to achieve this objective, commissioner, you have said it, then we will not only have to emit less, we will have to absorb more. storing carbon in our soil can be an important component of this project, and it can become a real win-win situation, because every tonne of carbon that is absorbed from the air and stored as humus in the soil is a win-win for our climate. every tonne more humus that comes into our soil is a gain for our farmers. and eventually, carbon farming can also become a business model in agriculture. agriculture and forestry are a very important part of the solution to the climate crisis. wherever plants grow, where photosynthesis takes place, carbon is stored and oxygen is produced. if this process hadn't been on this planet, we wouldn't just get too hot on this planet, we would suffocate within a short time. we are taking an important step with this new regulation to create an incentive for farmers to make their contribution to climate protection even more efficient than before. i would therefore like to say that we should support the proposal of mrs pereira in the vote tomorrow.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i’d like to thank the rapporteur, lídia pereira, and the agricultural opinion rapporteur, martin hlaváček, for what has been a very effective process. it represents a win-win, good for the environment and good for agriculture and carbon farming, with the potential to lock carbon into our soils, deliver on carbon capture, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, promote sustainable practices, while at the same time recognising and rewarding the effort of farmers. there’s potential to bring new money into agriculture, but this needs to be funded from outside of cap. it also needs to allow for private funding as well as public sector funding, and it needs to compensate for the costs involved in the transition. we must ensure that the carbon certification framework is of the highest standard, that it has robust methodologies, ensures additionality, effective monitoring, reporting and verification in order to deliver the highest possible value for the market, for what would be genuine, true carbon credits. fundamentally, this represents a different approach from other proposals that have gone through this parliament – other proposals that have been controversial, polarised debate, and ultimately were hollowed out. they sought to force through targets and an agenda, whereas this proposal empowers, incentivizes and encourages, rather than burdens. ultimately, it’s a carrot approach rather than a stick approach. i call on the commission to deliver the maximum potential out of this process to ensure that this opportunity is maximised to its full potential in the months and years ahead.
mr president, in my brief speech i would also like to support the report we are discussing and the compromise form that has been taken up in the committees concerned. and i want to thank mrs. pereir for her and her team and the shadow reporters for drafting a proposal that i don't think raises any doubts about us adopting unnecessary regulation, but we are adopting legislation that can work in practice, that is built on the voluntary involvement of farmers, farmers, and that can really be a benefit and can help farmers to get more income and resources. all the speakers here agreed that it is necessary to adjust carbon absorption, that it is not only possible to adjust the emissions themselves that are and will be released, but if we want to be neutral, we must also address the existing carbon. and without solving the existing carbon absorption, we really can't get to the commitments contained in, for example, the paris agreement. it is therefore an extremely important part of regulation, which we seek to address our commitments, the commitments of the european union to the paris agreement. i am pleased to see in the debate that has been taking place here that the representatives of the key factions are in agreement and that the amendment to be tabled tomorrow has a chance to pass and that it will work in practice.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to welcome this text which will allow us to appreciate all the efforts that producers have made and will make even more to make the transition to the environment. the carbon certification mechanism presents a double opportunity. first, it will be a lever on the road to decarbonisation of the agricultural world. producers are business leaders like everyone else and they must ensure the viability of their farms and therefore they must be encouraged, not penalized. they are also key players in climate change and that is why we need to accompany them. this text is also a financial leverage for the agricultural world. but of course, we must be careful not only in terms of administrative burdens but also in terms of economic costs, since the remuneration of the certificates, the cost of carbon, will really enable farmers to get the most out of it. and if we want an efficient mechanism that will lead european agriculture to become a leader in decarbonising its production, this mechanism must be as inclusive as possible. i should like to welcome this because the text we are going to adopt will take into account both emission reductions and storage measures. this is a surplus value for parliament and must be defended.
mr president, what we risk doing with this eu certification process for carbon removals is creating a system that actually promotes greenwashing, instead of actually stopping it. i mean, of course, we need to ban offsets – grand – but there is another problem. if we call everything we like a carbon removal and given an eu certificate of approval, then we will end up with a certification process that has absolutely no integrity. i mean, we all want farmers to be rewarded for storing carbon through good agricultural practices. but if we set up a system where we count everything from planting to grazing as a carbon removal activity, well, we are just going to have a junk certification process. so let us certify real carbon removals, like the peatlands rewetting, agroforestry, so that we can promote no-regret, biodiversity-positive solutions. otherwise we are only fooling ourselves, and we cannot cheat the climate – we are the only losers if we try and do that.
mr president, congratulations on your appointment, because this is the first time we've seen you here. today we mourn for argentina, we mourn for each and every one of the 30,000 victims of the argentine dictatorship, denied by the elected president milei. in argentina and other parts of the world, as we saw in brazil with bolsonaro, leaders supported by financial, economic and media powers are doubling. the far right is organized globally: it spreads messages of fear with false news without regard to the people. i denounce, on this sad day for a brother country, the advance of neo-fascism in europe, which we see how it tarnishes the streets of europe, as has happened in recent days, where the falange and other fascist and neo-fascist groups neonazi groups have called rallies in the streets of the spanish state in front of the institutions. according to the 2018 resolution on the advancement of neo-fascist violence in europe, of which i was a co-sponsor, these hateful manifestations should be condemned and repudiated. only in this way will we fight the advance of neo-fascism in europe. fascism, never again.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express the concern of millions of spaniards who have been concentrating peacefully for 17 consecutive days to defend our constitutional order. pedro sánchez has reached government agreements that corrupt our democratic system, selling spain's unity to gain power. this lack of loyalty is only the beginning of the extortion proposals of separatist groups. similar situations are occurring in other eu countries. initiatives like this in my country encourage other movements to take such painful paths as those we are suffering in spain. it's an irresponsible current. it is a huge irresponsibility on the part of politicians who, far from representing their citizens, use their votes to betray them.
mr president, the consequences of israel's cruel escalation of aggression against the palestinian people are increasing with each passing day. in the face of slaughter, what is required is to stop war, death, destruction. we regret that parliament today refused to add a resolution to the debate on the immediate ceasefire that would make this longstanding demand material. we welcome in return the letter to the institutions of the european union, signed by 64 members from various countries and five political groups, calling for an immediate, lasting and sustained humanitarian ceasefire that will bring an end to the current escalation of violence, as demanded by the united nations general assembly. the institutions of the european union have been advocating the two-state solution for decades but are not doing what is necessary to implement it in practice. we therefore call on the european union and the 18 member states which have not yet done so to move from words to acts recognizing the state of palestine, a contribution to the implementation of international law and relevant un resolutions, to the fulfilment of the long-standing national rights of the palestinian people.
president. - the house is facing a housing crisis. middle-class people, especially young people, can't afford to buy a house anymore. twelve years ago, the same house cost half as much as today. project developers didn't lose their homes on the roadside. the buyer of the house was king. what happened in that short period? now a lot of people have joined because of too much immigration and too few homes have been built. but what is the root cause? we must, after all, point to frankfurt, brussels and the hague. they made everyone addicted to free money and completely crashed the housing market. because that's exactly what happens when you buy up massive debt over 10 years and keep interest rates negative. that's what people at home are literally paying the price for now. wednesday, they can go to the polls. present the bill to those responsible for this.
mr president, recently, craig mokhiber, a director at the un high commissioner for human rights, resigned because he said un leadership had failed in gaza. they have, he said, ‘shamefully bowed their heads to power’. in his resignation letter, he said, ‘as a human rights lawyer with more than three decades of experience in the field, i know well that the concept of genocide has often been subject to political abuse. but the current wholesale slaughter of the palestinian people, rooted in an ethno-nationalist settler colonial ideology, in continuation of decades of their systematic persecution and purging, based entirely upon their status as arabs, and coupled with explicit statements of intent by leaders in the israeli government and military, leaves no room for doubt or debate. in gaza, homes, schools, churches, mosques and medical institutions are wantonly attacked as thousands of civilians are massacred.’ this, he said, is ‘a textbook case of genocide’. the us and eu are not just complicit in this genocide –they give israel the arms to carry out their war crimes. the world will never forget that they abandoned the palestinian people.
mr president, israel expects us to believe that there is no genocide in gaza – they are only protecting themselves from terrorists, they are trying to limit casualties, and even that the palestinians are responsible for killing themselves, when israel controls every entry and exit point in that tiny occupied territory where half of the population are children. absolute lies, of course, and not for the first time. cynical distortion, wild accusations, farcical claims: these are the motives operandi of israeli propaganda. before the current military conflict, there were six others in gaza since 2006. and after they are done, the lies are exposed but there is never any reckoning. there is never any outrage from the media. it is just buried and forgotten until the next time the lies are platformed again. well, this is unacceptable. the media is failing the citizens of europe and the people of gaza because propaganda in the service of genocide should be treated with the contempt that it deserves. instead, the media defers to it. well, we have a message for you: it is not working. our consent for israel’s atrocities cannot be manufactured. the truth about israeli lies is emerging. the ugly truth about zionism has revealed itself for all to see, and a new world order will be built.
- madam president, please. what still bothers me is the duct of the law, the basic philosophy of the law. the farmer is deprived of the ability to use plant protection products responsibly and on a professional basis. and i say, "what the hell is this?" on the left side of the house, farmers are not our enemies. they ensure our food is healthy and environmentally friendly. the fundamental question for me is: do we want to force it or make it possible? i want to make it possible for you to want to force, and i think that's the wrong way.
i would like to say that the commissioner has already made a number of proposals, and i would like to thank him for his support. but i would remind you that to achieve these objectives, investment in viable alternatives must be strengthened in terms of substances and their costs, and a more efficient and uncomplicated legislative and procedural framework must be created for the adoption of new biological control methods. i would also like to remind you of the importance of an effective and harmonized implementation of integrated protection, and i therefore think it very appropriate to reinforce it in this proposal for a regulation. it is important to ensure greater homogeneity in its application in the union, in a framework which naturally gives room to local specificities and to the advances of scientific knowledge itself.
madam president, the science is clear that the climate and biodiversity crises are the biggest threats to global food security. there’s not a single serious scientist in europe who would argue that this new pesticides regulation or the nature restoration law would pose a risk to european food security. the main objective of the proposal is not to even ban pesticides, but to replace them with safe and sustainable alternatives. yet, some of the right-wing groups in here have declared that their intention is to kill the pesticides regulation, and they have done their best to do the same with the nature restoration law. they want to delete the national reduction targets, which will totally undermine the chances of achieving the overall eu target, and to delay the 2030 reduction targets to 2035. they claim to be defending farmers on food security, but in reality, they are defending the interests of the big chemical pesticide companies and industrial farming.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not going to be able to do this. the decarbonisation of buses and trucks is important, there is no question about it. but the majority in the environment committee has reinforced the commission's ambitious proposal in some areas, for example on the 2035 target. so s&d doesn't follow timmermans, if we're talking about that kind of stuff, but goes beyond that. but i would like to point out in particular, as jens gieseke did, the calls for technological neutrality. i personally ask you, above all, to support amendment no 123, but also the other proposals made by the ep in this area. the calculation of electrical fuels is important. yes, they're expensive right now and they're scarce right now, but who knows what that's like in 2035 and 2040. and yes, the manufacturers don't want that right now. but why should we rule that out for the next few years? the market should decide. the market should decide, the engineers should decide, not the politics. we're for technology neutrality.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. i am already quite fascinated by the fact that the cdu colleagues, especially now, are running for the tenth time with the same head against the same wall and then again find out: this wall will stand up again. it is not a point at all to emphasize and repeatedly demand a technology that we know we do not have enough of, and now even with the carbon correction factor, that the control over the achievement of climate targets is taken away from the vehicle manufacturers and given to the oil companies. this is absolutely unlocked and makes no sense. and no wonder the big manufacturers are against your idea of the carbon correction factor. you're suggesting a solution where there's no solution. it's the opposite. the manufacturers, including the unions, are quite clear: there is a solution for climate-neutral transport, even for trucks. and that's not called e-fuels, but long-term electrification. and then we should make that clear and finally stop trying to make the same mistake over and over again.
mr president, dear commissioner, the future for trucks and buses is electric, for better air quality in our towns and cities, and lower emissions. higher co₂ reduction targets will begin phasing out combustion engines in the market. every year 70 000 europeans die prematurely due to pollution from road transport. we cannot delay action any longer. so, electrification must be the priority for trucks, for trailers, for coaches and buses. it’s nonsensical to waste precious e-fuels on road transport. it’s champagne! use it sparingly, because there’s a more cost-effective and convenient alternative available. e-fuels should only be kept for the trickiest areas to decarbonise: planes and shipping. the fuels and the car industries, they’re attempting to deceive the parliament by promoting e-fuels for road transport. it’s good for their pockets, good for their profits, but not for people. we must reject it.
madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, you see today a really proud chair of the international trade committee because, in this global world of fragmentation, of a lot of troubled waters, we managed to agree on the most progressive and sustainable trade agreement of the european union ever. this is a big success. thanks a lot to the commission, to the negotiator peter berz, and to all colleagues who worked together to reach this wonderful agreement. the vote in the committee was also quite clear; there is a big majority for the agreement. but we should not only rest on our laurels. we should also look at what is perhaps not so perfect. one year between closing the negotiation and the ratification is quite too long. we have to be much quicker on that. secondly, what about australia? we have to look forward to reach an agreement in a similar way with australia as well. i will mention mexico and mercosur as well. so let’s put our power together to reach similar agreements with these countries in a reasonable time frame.
president. the world is becoming more turbulent, more insecure, more insecure. war and instability are the talk of the day at the kitchen tables. there are new challenges on the world stage, of which china is the biggest. a china that wants to take international trade under its wing with corporate espionage and massive state aid. if we want to protect our own jobs and markets, the west must join forces. in this light, the new eu-new zealand trade agreement is good news. but let's make this a step towards more deals. with australia, with the united states, with mercosur. the eu needs to strengthen its anchorage in trade blocs, especially with trump's possible return next year. because in this case, size does matter in this uncertain world. only a unified western bloc can protect our prosperity.
madam president, the agreement between the european union and new zealand seems to be a positive step forward. for the first time, binding environmental measures and respect for indigenous peoples are included in this agreement. that's a strong signal. it is undeniable that the european union was founded on the promise of peace and prosperity. however, recent events highlight the need for europe to gain its food autonomy. to claim that food is just another good is an illusion. it is contradictory to require farmers to produce less to promote polyculture and to produce better to promote peasant agriculture while at the same time encouraging imports of foodstuffs. promoting a diet less animal-centric while promoting new zealand sheep and cattle also seems inconsistent. this agreement between the european union and new zealand should not only replicate an existing trade model but should also promote an exceptional approach to food. the aim is not to put aside all international trade, but to reorient it towards the diversity and food autonomy of the territories.
madam president, this free trade agreement with new zealand is a bit of the quintessence of hypocrisy and european double language. i mean, it's been years since we talked on all the benches about the green deal, we absolutely want to reconcile climate and economic development, and we're all just complaining that we've finally signed an agreement with a country about 20,000 kilometres away. so intensifying trade by big ships and polluting cargoes, to import what, milk, sheep, apples? that is to say, things that we are fully capable of producing in europe. i do not understand the argument that this is a progressive agreement. what is progressive? yes, the text will comply with international labour standards. happy again! what is progressive? oh, yes, but be careful, there are sanctions as a last resort if you don't respect the paris agreement. but we know very well what that means, as a last resort: there will be no such thing. i would like to say that the commission has not yet made a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of animals. agriculture is increasingly becoming the adjustment variable whenever trade is made. well, it can't last, and that's why i think we should reject this deal. (the speaker agrees to answer a question in blue card)
answer: blue card. but, madam melchior, you know that for a very long time europe had sheep farming, that is, very high quality lambs. but it is precisely because of unfair competition that we now have an entire sector of european agriculture that is not doing well. but still, find out how sheepmeat is brought from new zealand to europe to be sold completely hypocritically as fresh meat in european supermarkets after spending several days, even weeks, on cargo in plastic packaging which, frankly, raises a number of questions. so i totally disagree with you. and if we can, as we have been doing for years, produce sheep or goat meat in europe, then we can continue to do so.
the president, i would like to speak to the rapporteur, mr caspary, and the council of ministers, mr dombrovskis, to discuss the matter with the council. i know in our sea there will be no more head and tail. agus muna can linn ceann a dhéanamh leis an nua-shéalainn, which tír go mightfaimis comhréiteach saorthradála a bheith againn leis? the first was the first time that the council of europe had been able to reach a meeting of the european parliament, which was held in brussels on 7 and 8 october, and the second was in brussels on 7 and 8 october. and why would you be in front of me? if they're going to trade in the next 30 years, as soon as they're going to trade in the next 30 years, we should take it. i'm sure you'll be able to see the world through the years.
madam president, commissioner, trade policy in the european union was certainly to change, also because of the requirements of the farm to table strategy. this agreement with new zealand is a good example of how trade policy is changing, which now requires compliance with social and environmental standards. new zealand is a similar country with similar rules to those of the european union. but i do not want to forget that i support this agreement with very sensitive agricultural sectors, such as sheepmeat. interestingly, there is a 40,000 tonne increase in sheepmeat when it is one of the most sensitive and most endangered sectors in the european union. it is also an extensive livestock farm necessary for rural areas and to take care of the environment. sometimes a sector is small and this is ignored. we are in favour of the change in trade policy, but let us not ignore small farms and sheepmeat farmers. i wanted to be your voice here today.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, there are probably two main topics which were discussed during today’s plenary concerning sustainability and agricultural sensitivity. so let me briefly address those two topics. regarding our sustainability agenda, i think the situation is very clear. sustainable trade has taken centre stage in the trade policy these days. when negotiating with our trading partners, we always aim for the highest standards. this is what we have achieved with new zealand, which is a highly developed and like-minded partner. it is indeed the best outcome so far. however, we always need to take into account specificities of other partners and their level of economic development, so this is not one size fits all. concerning the agricultural sensitivities, i am convinced that we have reached a good compromise. for instance, farmers on both sides will help improve market access without compromising on agricultural sensitivities. the cumulative effect of other free trade agreements to the eu market was factored in during the negotiations. and while the agreement removes all tariffs in new zealand at entry into force on eu agri-food exports, the agreement will not fully liberalise our markets for products such as beef and sheep meat, butter or milk powder. rather, these sensitive products are subject to carefully crafted tariff rate quotas with appropriate phasing-in periods. not only are the eu and new zealand like-minded partners, but the eu and new zealand are also both committed to having the fta entering into force as soon as possible. this may happen as early as mid-2024, allowing eu exporters to start benefiting from enhanced market access opportunities. once again, i would like to thank all the colleagues involved in this work for great cooperation and support.
the report is not yet available. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. i think today's debate made it clear: there is a broad and inter-party support for our trade agreement between the european union and new zealand. the debate made it clear that the agreement will help us to protect what is important to us - our prosperity, our good and secure jobs and our global competitiveness. we europeans are an important trading power today, but we are in constant competition with other countries, and this has also become clear today. this trade agreement is a very good tool for steering economic globalisation along a regulated path with like-minded and trusted partners. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals for a new directive on the protection of the environment. many good examples of new opportunities, new prospects for our companies and therefore for our employees have been shown. the agreement is a good example of a prudent, forward-looking and really good, all-interest trade policy. it's tomorrow. i wish that we would vote with a broad majority in favour of this agreement. let us, together, open up new opportunities for employers and workers. and please, mr commissioner, help us to ensure that after this long phase, the council can take the necessary decisions quickly so that the agreement can enter into force quickly. i would like to thank you and your team for the excellent work and the excellent text and thank you very much to all the colleagues for the debate today.
the discussion is over. the vote will be delivered tomorrow, wednesday 22 november 2023.
the following table sets out the report by frédérique ries on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on packaging and packaging waste, amending regulation (eu) 2019/1020 and directive (eu) 2019/904 and repealing directive 94/62/ec (com(2022) 0677 - c9-0400/2022 - 2022/0396(cod)) (a9-0319/2023)
deputising for the rapporteur. – madam president, my dear friend commissioner sinkevičius, due to some personal challenges, madame ries can’t be here today, so i have the honour of presenting her part of it. the regulation of packaging and packaging waste has undoubtedly been one of the most hotly debated pieces in legislation in brussels in recent months, both in terms of profound paradigm shifts it proposes and the intensity of lobbying by the interested stakeholders. the legislation is essential for the competitiveness of the european packaging sector, and stakes are high because, while packaging is essential for components of products, making them suitable for the transport and safe use, it is also an increasingly important source of waste. with a report adopted in envi by a large majority, the rapporteur, frédérique ries, whom i represent today, has succeeded in aligning environmental ambitions with industrial reality. it establishes a clear line in favour of innovation, allowing a five-year derogation for innovative packaging and providing a horizontal exemption for almost the entire text for micro-enterprises with fewer than 10 employees. in addition, as one of the rapporteurs’ main priorities, the report has added health dimensions to the environmental aspects of the dossier, with the addition of a ban on pfas chemicals, the forever pollutants, and bisphenol a in food packaging. finally, it also strengthens the prevention aspect of the text by setting a precise target for the reduction of plastic packaging and by banning ultralight plastic bags. although the report adopted by envi confirms a pragmatic vision towards circular economy, the rapporteur is well aware that there are still differences between the positions adopted in the different committees of this house. with the amendments tabled by my group, the rapporteur wanted to take a further step towards a common, balanced position on the most controversial aspects of the text. first, on the reuse aspect, article 26: in addition to the removal of targets for the take away sector already adopted by the envi committee, the rapporteur proposes that economic operators with a packaging recycling rate of over 85% to be exempted from the reuse obligation, striking a balance between increasing targets and simply eliminating them. secondly, with regards to the restrictions on certain packaging formats for the fruit and vegetables – that’s annex v, line 2 – the rapporteur wishes to respond to agri’s concerns by extending the scope of the packaging format still authorised to single-use plastic-free composite packaging so that producers can continue to have a wider choice of alternatives. lastly, with regard to packaging restrictions for the horeca sector – that’s annex v, line 3 – the text adopted in envi is already well-balanced: a complete derogation for micro-enterprises, a three-year deferral for applications of the measures on flexibility granted to the member states. however, in a spirit of compromise, the rapporteur wanted to add wrappers – that they would be exempted from the ban – as it would be difficult to replace them with other alternatives. this set of amendments is, for the rapporteur, the middle ground that only reconciles positions between groups, lending a robust text at the beginning of interinstitutional negotiations. on her behalf, i would like to thank all the colleagues for the cooperation we have had so far, and i am looking forward to represent this house in the further negotiations with the co-legislator. so thank you. then i change my hat because i think there was an understanding that i would have also one minute for myself, because of the combination... (the president cut off the speaker)i’ll try to keep it to 30 seconds and i’ll change to finnish. todellinen ongelmamme oli elinkaariarviointi. elinkaariarviointia voidaan tehdä erittäin monella eri tavalla ja pienetkin muutokset, kuten montako pesukertaa, paljonko vettä tai miten paljon energiaa, muuttavat todellista tilannetta ja muuttavat myös elinkaariarvioinnin lopputuloksia. siitä syystä elinkaariarvio, siinä muodossa, kuin se tuli meille komissiosta, aiheutti meille ylitsepääsemättömiä ongelmia, mutta yritämme tulevaisuudessa järjestää niitä.
thank you very much for your presentation and i am sorry, we were not aware that you also had this hat reserved for this discussion, but we are moving forward.
the committee on industry, research and energy adopted a resolution on the proposal for a council regulation (eec) on the conclusion of the agreement between the european economic community and the european economic community on the conclusion of the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of moldova on the conclusion of the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of moldova on the one hand, and the republic of moldova on the other. i am very pleased to see that the commission has been able to take a decision on this matter and that it is not only a matter of the commission's opinion but also of the commission's opinion. we are positive and unhesitatingly share the purpose of this regulation reducing packaging waste and also the majority of the provisions contained therein. what we have tried to change, with the opinion voted by a large majority in the itre, is an effort to reconcile the ambitious objectives proposed by the commission, and to share in part with reality, with the opinions, the observations of reality, the state of the art and even the great positive things that are there, so as not to penalize those who have done a great deal of work over the years to improve the quality of packaging, to put ever more sustainable packaging on the market and who have invested in recycling through research, investment and innovation. to punish these worlds would be incomprehensible! it would result in a europe that is not attentive, that does not listen. there are other points which i cannot explain for reasons of time: i am simply saying that the itre committee has considered, since our views have not been taken into account by the committee responsible, that we are bringing our amendments back to the house and i believe that the president is taking the floor.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for this opportunity to address you today ahead of a vote that is crucial for our environment, our single market, our industries, and our citizens. let me start by thanking, first of all, the rapporteur, ms ries, all shadow rapporteurs, the rapporteurs of the three opinion-giving committees and the many of you whom i also met over the last months to discuss this proposal. dear members of parliament, what we have on the table is a set of ambitious rules to take packaging on board our transition to climate neutrality and clean circular economy. if we are to reverse the ever-growing amounts of waste and increase resource efficiency in the packaging sector, then we have to be ready for a change. i am convinced that this will be a change for the better. packaging is a key sector where we can empower citizens to participate in the circular economy and help create new business opportunities. the measures we propose will deliver cost savings to consumers and benefits for the environment. the commission has worked very closely with all stakeholders, all actors who have listened to the full range of issues, concerns that have emerged. some of you call for additional flexibility, in particular on re-use targets, mandatory deposit and return systems and waste prevention in general. however, harmonising europe’s packaging rules is a core objective of this initiative, reducing red tape, compliance costs and market barriers, taking full advantage of the eu single market. and i’m convinced that we can achieve the desired high level of harmonisation only if we keep the bar of our ambition high. the latest data on packaging waste showed that we have broken a new sad record. between 2010 and 2021, our packaging waste grew by more than 24%, faster than gdp and even faster than recycling capacities. in 2021 alone, we saw the highest increase in decade by 6% compared to 2020. this surge in packaging waste is a clear sign of persisting wasteful trends in resource use. driven by single use in the eu, we now generate almost 190 kg of packaging waste per person every year. our proposal aims for efficiency gains in the recycling sector. the absolute volume of packaging waste for recycling will surely need to increase but the trends are clearly showing – and please note it – recycling is not enough. losses are inevitable at every stage of recycling change, and primary materials are constantly needed to complement what comes from the recycling waste. we must do more to reduce the degeneration of packaging waste, more to replace single-use packaging with sustainable solutions and help to roll out, reuse or refill systems. lastly, dear colleagues, let me recall that our industries are united in their call for this regulation to come into force, supporting our single market. our citizens expect decisions from all of us and they all say the earlier the better. and the commission agrees.
the committee on agriculture, fisheries and rural development, the committee on agriculture and fisheries, the committee on agriculture and fisheries, the committee on agriculture and the committee on fisheries, the committee on fisheries and fisheries, the committee on fisheries and fisheries, the committee on fisheries and fisheries, the committee on fisheries and fisheries, the committee on fisheries and fisheries, the committee on fisheries and fisheries, the committee on fisheries and fisheries, the committee on fisheries and fisheries, the committee on fisheries and fisheries, the committee on fisheries and fisheries, the committee on fisheries and fisheries, the committee on fisheries and fisheries, the committee on fisheries and fisheries, the committee on fisheries and fisheries, the committee on fisheries and fisheries, the committee on fisheries and the committee on fisheries, the committee on fisheries and fisheries madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's vote on the packaging regulation risks calling into question the credibility of the european union. we all want a more sustainable europe, where there is less packaging, but we cannot forget that this same europe has for years called for and supported research and innovation on recycling, has raised awareness, stressed and trained citizens on the differentiated and today suddenly changes direction, proposing a reuse system, without regard to the extraordinary results achieved in recycling, which can and must remain a parallel path to continue to achieve credible environmental, social and economic sustainability. packaging is not only a problem but in many cases a guarantee: we think of the world of food, where we can consume fresh, healthy and, above all, safe food, helping to reduce waste. if the text were passed in this way, without amendments, entire production chains would be destroyed, with dramatic consequences for producers and consumers. i call on everyone to show common sense, to show a europe where political choices and environmental strategies are consistent, credible and, above all, pragmatic in the interests of citizens.
on behalf of the epp group. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. we have a large amount of packaging waste in europe today which certainly does not justify regulatory intervention like the one we are discussing, also because the vast majority of packaging waste is already perfectly integrated into the recycling chain. the risk we face is that this regulation, which is so cumbersome and so difficult, will apply to less than 2% of the total waste produced. you see, therefore, that it is not justified and serious to spend so many months on discipline in a sector where, for safety reasons, especially in the food and health sectors, the results achieved by the european union are already many and very high, very interesting, very sustainable. it is true that the results are not the same in all 27 member states: we have countries that have achieved great results in recycling, other countries that are poorer, if we want to, perhaps more efficient in recycling. what is certain is that best practices in recycling cannot be disadvantaged, as this regulation would have it, but rather by introducing a concept of recycling that is completely unscientific and not based on the great principle that we support and that we have supported in this negotiation on material neutrality. the closed cycle theme, from the point of view of high-quality recycling, is a theme to be overcome. there are materials in which the closed cycle can be implemented: from the bottle back to the bottle. but there are materials like paper, which we have so strongly supported, for which the closed cycle is not applicable, so it takes an open cycle to have high levels of recycling. so there are several themes that cross over. the first is respect for the performance of individual countries; the second is the protection of good recycling performance for food safety and health. we therefore ask that this negotiation be concluded in the sense of reality, as many other colleagues have said, without depressing the research potential that many countries have been able to demonstrate.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, colleagues, it shouldn’t be a surprise to you that the junk food barons are not a reliable source of environmental advice, that lobbyists for plastic corporations are not authorities on sustainability. yet, here we are, debating whether we should or should not tackle the mountain of packaging waste piling up in our towns and cities, all because of the corporate embrace of throwaway single-use culture. despite what those men in nice suits tell you, we cannot recycle our way out of this mess. if your single-use plastic cup is recycled into a single-use plastic bag, it is not sustainable. if your plastic junk is swapped for cardboard junk, it is not sustainable. if we continue to generate levels of waste at current rates, that is, by definition, unsustainable. so, colleagues, we have to pull the brakes on our throwaway society, the empty cardboard shipping boxes, the single-serving shampoo bottle for your single-serving hotel experience, the plastic wrapping for a single piece of fruit. all this plastic is cheap. this cardboard is cheap. this packaging is cheap. but the price for our future is very, very high indeed.
mr president, mr commissioner, dear colleagues, i have always argued that ambitious objectives should be aligned, of course, with reality and the situation on the ground. it's good that we all want to fight to reduce packaging waste, but let's not forget that packaging or the amount of packaging is directly proportional to the amount of fruit, the amount of food that the population consumes. yes, it's an excess consumption and we know it. commissioner, my fellow citizens, we could make a good regulation if we take into account the recommendations of those who are good at it. there are amendments here, i signed them up too and i hope... for example, i'll give you one example: amendment 417, which provides for a derogation for the most efficient packaging formats, because not every packaging fits every product. we must take this into account here and i think that tomorrow we must vote very intelligently and very objectively on amendments to correct the commission proposal, which in my view has been unobjective and unrealistic everywhere.
mr president, the killarney coffee cup project is an amazing voluntary initiative by small businesses in the south-west of ireland. they recently implemented a project that now includes over 50 businesses moving away from single-use coffee cups. before the project started, killarney was throwing away one million cups per year. louise byrne from the killarney coffee cup project said, ‘often packaging and single-use items are not recycled or composted. they simply become general waste. even if this waste source was managed correctly, it’s only in use for an average of 13 minutes.’ considering the impact associated with deforestation, water stress, manufacturing, transportation and waste management, she said, ‘i don’t think its use justifies its existence.’ she said, ‘i would argue that watering down goals and policies sends the wrong message to people about political priorities and the true global risk of climate change.’ however, yet again, the epp have joined forces with the far right to do exactly that: to water down ambition at the behest of the private packaging industry. pretty sad.
mr president, honourable colleagues, croatia has barely left yugoslavia, a centralized federation in which the serbs had all the power. and we paid with blood for that exit, we paid with blood for that freedom and that sovereignty. we joined the european union because it is a community of equal and sovereign nation states. we want cooperation, but we insist on equality. we don't want to be a platform for the interests of the big and powerful. are you not satisfied that 400,000 croats have gone to work in these great and powerful member states? now you'd like to rule the rest of croatia. effective european centralized bodies, you say. so look at this oligarchy that is out of democratic control and its results. controls are being restored at internal borders, people marching through europe opposing democracy, christianity and our way of life. so the eurocentralists are leading the european union to ruin and not only that they should not be given...
mr president, this push for a more featherless eu with qualified majority voting is grist to the mill of those who argue the eu is an anti-democratic entity. the people of ireland rejected the lisbon treaty in 2008 because of the potential loss of sovereignty, neoliberal reforms and the threat to ireland’s neutrality. the second referendum saw the treaty accepted because of an intense ‘yes’ campaign that threatened and bullied the irish people into submission. those who campaigned for the ‘no’ vote have been vindicated and more. we could have imagined how militaristic the eu would become, how undemocratic it would become, where our foreign policy is being run by the united states. now, a proposal to go even further to silence minority positions, when only a small minority oppose a genocide happening before our eyes in gaza. those who are so keen to build a militarised europe are doing untold damage to the european project that we yearn for. the people of europe don’t want your militarised europe.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard many of you ask why, once again, europe is irrelevant on a foreign policy issue. the following are the positions taken by the various european institutions since 7 october: i would like to say that the commissioner has not been able to give us a clear answer. and be careful that this is not the fault of nationalism but of the personalism, of those who put their political careers before the common good. moving on to the concrete issues, we are certainly pleased to hear that some of the hostages will soon be released. but to understand what is happening and what this house must do, we must understand what happened on 7 october and what is happening in that area. because what happened on october 7 is not the cry of a people claiming their sovereignty but it is a terrorist act by an organization that aims to erase a state, because that is what is written in the hamas charter and that is what hamas does with its supporters, including iran. if we do not understand this point, we cannot understand what concrete solutions we can bring forward and we cannot understand the support that this house and these institutions must give to the state of israel today, which is constantly under threat of destruction. and a thought on the left, its short circuit, its dialectical dimension that on these subjects is as always the autogol: on the one hand, they ask us every day to respect all minorities, lgbt people, women, and on the other, they support islamic fundamentalism that denies women's rights, condemns homosexuals to death and suppresses freedom.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not going to be able to do this. we have demanded the unconditional release of all hostages from the very beginning. the israeli government has now agreed to a deal where 50 hostages are released on the condition that 150 palestinian prisoners are released and there is a four-day truce. i'm happy to see the release and their families. the sad thing is that in the opinion of many palestinians and arabs it is the terrorist group hamas that is apparently forcing the israeli government to make concessions, and that there has been no progress on a lasting peace settlement since oslo with the representatives of the palestinians who are willing to talk to israel and recognize its right to exist. we must, as europeans, after the end of hamas' rule in gaza best coordinated with the united states work to establish a robust mandate within the united nations for gaza where a strong international presence will first provide humanitarian aid and then rebuild gaza. and that must then be brought into a peace process where elections are held and negotiations are going to bring about a peaceful resolution of the conflict. i am for the gaza strip not to be repeated and for the west bank not to be intifadaed again because it will be a genuine peace process.
mr president, mr high representative, mr commissioner, first of all i would like to commend your statements and personal efforts since the crisis escalated. the role of the european union in this crisis could have enormous importance for our global role, our relations with the middle eastern countries and other global partners. eu must be more engaged, but the neighbouring countries should also assist more in mitigating the effects of this humanitarian disaster. of course israel has a right to defend himself, targeting terrorists from hamas, but the way it does must be regarded through a clear set of rules that are internationally recognised. depriving civilians of essential commodities to survive cannot be justified, especially if more than half of civilian victims are children. the exchange of hostages and temporary ceasefire are the first positive steps, but many more are needed to accomplish a sovereign palestinian state that is in peace with the state of israel, a goal that we must continue pursuing.
mr president, people all over the world are asking, ‘what can we do to stop a war that has taken 5 000 children from their mothers, and has left an entire generation traumatised, while the families of hostages now hold their breath to hear if loved ones will be released?’ eu leaders have entirely failed to give an answer to that question, ‘what can we do?’ you have failed to call for a ceasefire. you have failed to react to breaches of international law. gaza is in ruins while settlements in the west bank continue to expand. netanyahu and his far-right government are emboldened by your silence. so others must provide the answers where you have failed. here’s what you can do. demand a permanent ceasefire now. end trade with settlements now. recognise the palestinian state now. the eu must be courageous, not complicit.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. in the german-speaking world we know the saying, "in the evening laziness becomes diligent", and that is exactly what comes to mind when i look at the decisions of the recent past, what we have to decide today and in the past days, and what you still want to decide. but before i speak about these political follies, follies, and measures which i think are completely wrong, let me also say a word about the past of this this is europe debate. when we started this mandate and you brought a crazy lockdown policy here to chaos across the continent, when you brought this lockdown policy here to bankruptcy, unemployment, record-breaking debt, sometimes adding to the psychological sphere some people in a gigantic way, you're hiring the european public prosecutor's office to order 1.8 billion doses of vaccines and now a good part of those doses are rotting. the ukraine-russia dispute continued, where in eleven or twelve waves of sanctions the european union and this house and a majority here have only knelt down and produced massive inflation, massive unemployment, bankruptcy, etc. this is the wrong way. and now that we have to balance these two capital measures with total failure, we move on to one insanity after another. a green deal that sounds nice, but in reality, it causes europe to lose its competitiveness completely, that we are actually developing an energy and business sector with e-mobility, the nuclear economy, which is political folly where you decide with a majority that insects can be added to our food. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the basis of the information provided by the commission. and if you ask me here: this is europe? my answer is very clear: this european union is going in the wrong direction, and i hope that next year's elections, june 6 to 9, will be a turning point in a good, free and peaceful europe... (the president deprives the speaker of his speech.)
madam president, prime minister, thanks for being here and for the meetings you had with us and your cabinet and your president on the recent rule of law monitoring visit to bulgaria. bulgaria, of course, is the oldest independent country in europe – a magnificent place and people. but for all the hope that eu membership would help transform it, the truth is that it remains the poorest country in the eu, experiencing an 11% drop in population as young people left to find opportunities elsewhere. while scandal after scandal dogged previous administrations – ‘barcelonagate’, ‘the eight dwarves’, the golden bars, massive corruption facilitated by the absolute power of the prosecutor general and the close collaboration with former prime minister boyko borissov – your party came out of the movement of the people to change all that. and that movement has made changes. but many issues remain, and i think it’s really important that it’s put on record here that all of those cases of those in power accused of robbing the bulgarian people will be investigated, those responsible held to account and that there will be no impunity. lastly, i agree with you totally: bulgaria should be in schengen, but i do have a concern that the european commission is demanding a price for that – that you act as europe’s brutal military border guards, in violation of human rights. there have been multiple accounts of pushbacks. we have a black book on pushbacks here, which i’m going to give you as a present, which i hope you read to investigate the evidence in it and ensure the upholding of human rights.
mr president, some people have a bad feeling about losing, but they have a bad feeling about losing. they missed saying "long live franco!" and some even raised their hand, we've seen them. truth is, when they say there are a lot of people on the streets, what i see are cameramen, women's insulters, minority insulters, people from different villages, street cameramen. and how sad that the people's party is joining vox. look, i didn't see you in the demonstrations denouncing the genocide of the palestinian people. i didn't see them at the demonstrations of workers and workers against precariousness. i didn't see them at the public health demonstrations. i can't see them, so i hardly ever see them in the house. i don't mean some, but most. the resolution on the rise of neo-fascist violence in europe, to which i was a co-sponsor in this parliament, calls for sanctions on member states for those who publicly incite violence or hatred. that's what you should be worried about. and, yes, i'm part of the democratic side, the anti-fascist side.
mr president, the aggression we are suffering against the spaniards is existential. we see our soil, our concept of spain, falling apart. achievements of generations in a democratic order, blood of compatriots shed, wasted by a ruthless ambition of political parties that have made it clear that they are capable of selling their motherland. - what's the point? well, not as you imagine. do you really think that the spaniards are going to swallow what irresponsible politicians want, who have abused the confidence of the citizens to betray them with their votes? the dissolution of our constitutional order is a precedent that threatens the european union. if there is no strong statement from the commission, mr reynders, we have missed it today, you know that similar claims can be made in other states. is that what you're looking for? a weakening of national identity? we will not fail to fulfill our duty to defend our homeland against those who want to see it torn to pieces.
mr president, when i heard that there was a debate on the rule of law in spain, i thought, ‘great! is this about state surveillance on journalists and politicians with pegasus? is it undercover police tactics involving intimate sexual relationships with activists to infiltrate social movements? is it people having their eyes mutilated by spanish police rubber bullets, or singers being sent to jail or exiled for their lyrics?’ but no, of course not. the debate, as usual, is about catalonia and an amnesty for people who should never have faced persecution in the first place. have you any idea how pathetic this looks to people outside of here? this is a political issue. political dialogue is something that spain has lacked for years, resorting instead to abusing a judicial system known for its dubious independence. self-determination and an end to political persecution are nothing but basic democratic demands guaranteed by the charter, and i support them. (the speaker concluded in a non-official language) (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, do you seriously think this institution has the moral or political authority to shout about breaches of human rights in hong kong, or anywhere else for that matter, when the majority of meps in here are supporting a genocide in gaza? once again, we are carrying out the bidding of nato hawks. chinese president xi jinping went to the us to work towards thawing relations last week. why are you here stirring the pot again on the pretext of human rights abuses, when you clearly don’t give a damn about human rights? can we talk about the right to protest and freedom of expression being taken away by france and germany? can we talk about the french and german police brutalising and arresting thousands of protesters in the streets and german forces raiding people’s homes for showing solidarity with the besieged palestinian people? how can you throw stones with the blood of over 5 000 children on your hands? the moral bankruptcy of european exceptionalism knows no bounds. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question)
blue-card question. – mr wallace, just hypothetically assuming that you were right and we were all illegitimate in raising human rights issues, why do you, as the self-declared human rights defender, not take up the cause? why do you keep silent about the crimes that the ccp commits in china?
blue-card answer. – i have no problem addressing abuses anywhere. and to tell you the truth, i haven’t seen a government i liked anywhere on the planet yet, not even in ireland. but what is really sickening is the inconsistency in this place. there’s over 5 000 children dead in gaza. there’s over 3 000 women. it’s a genocide being carried out by a brutal apartheid regime. and this place is supporting the genocide. this place still hasn’t called for a ceasefire. we still supply arms to the israelis to kill palestinian people. what gives us the moral right? (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i regret to be at the stage today. as a cypriot citizen and mep, the first thing i have to say is: everything in the light. competent authorities at national and european level should investigate the allegations in depth and act accordingly. these publications go back thirty years. i should like to point out the enormous progress cyprus has made in recent years in the areas of transparency, surveillance and cleanliness, as expressed by statements by american and european officials praising the progress of the republic of cyprus. despite its traditional relations with russia, the republic of cyprus immediately supported all sanctions against it, unlike other much stronger member states. we have done so, since for 49 years we have been separated from the turkish invasion and occupation of the northern part of our homeland, which leaves the european union unharmed, since it shows the same sensitivity it shows in other relevant cases of violation of international law. we would like to see the same sanctions imposed on turkey.
mr president, this also proves in practice that sanctions, with their shortcomings and by-laws, do not deprive putin of the possibility of financing the aggressive war against ukraine. if measures are taken in cyprus to remove russian capital, which is obviously fair and necessary, unfortunately they will mainly go to the occupied and turkey which does not impose sanctions with the understanding of the european union and nato. even the imposition of sanctions leads to controversial situations. italy's largest refinery, to escape control of a russian company, has ended up in control of an energy group controlled by a french-israeli billionaire who has been convicted of fraud in romania and switzerland. he took over italy's biggest refinery, while greek and cypriot justice refused to enforce a european arrest warrant issued against him by romania. an investor in his company and partner is the niece of greek prime minister alexis bacoyannis. efficiency, consistency and ethics are required.
mr president, the reason businessmen using a secrecy jurisdiction to hide and move money has got into the news is, let’s face it, because they’re russian businessmen. now, i’m very glad to look at the ways in which the ultra-rich hide and protect their money and the people who help them do it. but i do have a worry, because feverish hatred of all things russian in europe, spurred on by geopolitical manoeuvring, has consistently now for years been weaponised to ram through measures in europe which would otherwise be strenuously resisted by those who call themselves progressive. it’s everywhere from crackdowns on ngo financing to efforts to criminalise sanctions-evasion that’s going to make humanitarian work even more difficult than it is already. so it’s the war on terror all over again. anything back then was justified if you were combating terrorism; now you can do what you like as long as you’re fighting russia. so i really plead with colleagues, be outraged by all means, but don’t let it be used as another excuse for policies that will end up being used against civil society, while the oligarchs – russian, ukrainian and european – will find ways, and they will find ways, to carry on as before.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, good morning, colleagues. for the fifth time since we took our seats in 2019, we stand here to mark the international day for the elimination of violence against women, which takes place on saturday. sadly, as we all know in this house, we have an epidemic of violence, and even increased numbers during the covid-19 pandemic. i have to ask the question: is there another crime which is so widespread and which is so relatively ignored? if the same numbers who are victims of violence against women were victims of terrorism or gangland crime, we would have a much more robust response. there is legislative progress, and we know that – we’ve seen it in this house with istanbul, hard won. now we have the opportunity to conclude a robust directive right across europe – and the first, surprisingly, of its kind to tackle violence against women and domestic violence. evin incir and myself are working hard on this directive, but i have to tell you, colleagues, it is an uphill battle with the council. i have to wonder: why on earth are the member states not rushing towards this goal, refusing to be honest and say that without robust relationship-and-sexuality education, we will never overcome this phenomenon; and, crucially, refusing at present that the most heinous crime of rape should be included in the directive? why is it so hard for the member states to accept this? we have all sorts of excuses, but, if you’re serious about this issue, surely rape should be included, and the issue of consent, in any directive on violence against women. we know, of course, that these attitudes and issues we are dealing with are deeply embedded in our societies. we know there are many cultural issues, and we need to organise the way we shape our relationships and our power relationships in our countries. much to do. but i do want to invite council to adopt a very robust, comprehensive and committed directive that will engage all of society, so that we can begin to see a decrease in numbers, and so that maybe some years from now, we will be able to say that europe is the first continent to eradicate violence against women.
mr president, there will always be more tears, more women murdered by their partners, women kidnapped and tortured in war zones, women raped by strangers. femicide, female genital mutilation, sexual assault, revenge porn, online abuse – women live in fear. irishwoman ashling murphy went for a very simple run on a bright wednesday afternoon in january, and she was one of 12 women murdered in ireland last year. every year we shed tears over senseless and inhumane acts of violence against women, and there are times where i wonder whether we have become desensitised to it all. certainly, my colleague who spoke before me has no emotion at all towards us or women who lose their lives. many women no longer feel safe when they are out for a walk or waiting for a bus. for many, home is not even safe. most of us know someone who’s been sexually assaulted. more and more of us are recognising that we or people we know have experienced domestic or emotional abuse, and those numbers are rising. and there are tears. fearful, empathetic, angry tears. there are always more victims. there are always more women we have failed to protect. and today, let us take the time to recognise that we have not made european women feel safe. and let us take a moment to recognise the fear still remains. let us also take those tears, that emotion, that anger, and turn it into change and fundamentally call out the nonsensical commentary from the extreme right, like my colleague before. we cannot drag our heels on the violence against women directive, and i call on eu governments – spanish missing here today – to push for an agreement on this immediately if we are serious about protecting women and young girls.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, and we have spoken in many places, italy was shaken by another femicide: giulia cecchettin, 22 years old, murdered by her ex-boyfriend. we are sad and sorrowful but most of all very angry. in padua, during the commemoration dedicated to julia at the university where she was supposed to graduate before dying and where a graduation ceremony will be held, in the face of the request for a minute of silence, julia's companions chose to beat keys and drums, they chose to make noise. and so in so many schools and schools: stop the silence! male violence against women is a violation of human rights. it is a public and structural phenomenon, and the cause is the hierarchical relationship between the sexes, which has always been totally unbalanced in favour of man. to overcome this ignoble phenomenon, as president mattarella has said, we must start from education to equality, from school. the challenge is cultural and no law can ever stop this phenomenon without a cultural revolution starting from all of us.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 'day for the elimination of violence against women' against women, because words matter. women and girls are subjected to physical, sexual, psychological, economic violence just because they are women. the reality of numbers in the world and in the european union is dramatic. the story of giulia cecchettin and i thank president metsola for wanting to remember her in this hall has struck us very hard because giulia was simply a girl: she could be our daughter, our sister, one of us. and the guy who killed her could be our son, our brother, and i tell the men, one of you. the new directive, the accession of the union to the istanbul convention. but education, prevention, protection and repression alone are not enough: we must promote profound cultural change involving families, schools, universities, institutions, social and media to overcome the culture of ownership and control that this intolerable violence against women is causing.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your support. europe must clearly stand up for women and girls and become a safe place where there is no room for violence, no room for sexual exploitation and abuse. to achieve this, we need a coherent european legal framework, which is currently being negotiated between the institutions of the european union. we have a directive on combating violence against women and the family on the table, which we have taken a clear and progressive position on in the european parliament. it must be fully consistent with the provisions of the istanbul convention and that the crime of rape is nothing more than a crime. just "yes" means "yes". but its definition must be based on consent. we must prevent the attempt by some member states, respected, to keep the fight against violence uncoordinated at european level. i welcome all the efforts of my country slovenia as one of the countries with its legalized model. i call on the other member states, honourable members, to follow this and to ensure adequate legal protection for all europeans before the end of this mandate, of course.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the murder of ashling murphy in january 2022 forced a collective reckoning with violence against women that is anything but random. over one year on from ashling’s death and ahead of the international day for the elimination of violence against women, we must ask ourselves what has changed for the women of ireland? according to women’s aid, 244 women have died violently in ireland since 1996. the national women’s council recently warned that violence against women is at epidemic levels in ireland. late night safety is a serious issue, with fear and harassment a reality for many women. today serves as a stark reminder of the need for practical and impactful initiatives to combat gender-based violence. vienna, for example, has been committed to gender mainstreaming since 2000. high-quality public lighting and improved safety measures in underground car parks have been implemented. as well as this, tougher sentencing needs to be imposed for those who commit gender-based violence. judges cannot impose minimum sentence terms in ireland, while in the uk they can. in fact, the judge presiding over ashling murphy’s case lamented that he did not have the power to do so, given that the case was so far up the scale of gravity.
mr president, violence against women is barbaric. over 3000 women have been violently killed in gaza in less than 50 days. israel has unleashed its four horsemen of the apocalypse on the women of gaza: death, famine, war and conquest. it has given them two choices: leave gaza or die. more palestinian women will be killed, not just with bombs and bullets, but from hunger and epidemics. the handful of aid trucks into gaza is a cynic public relations play. humanitarian corridors, pauses in the shelling – these are vehicles to facilitate the depopulation of gaza, just as the two-state solution has become a fig leaf for inaction, for allowing israel to continue with its settler colonial project. where’s the outcry for the women of gaza? where our humanitarian interventionists is now? the ones who wept crocodile tears for women and human rights in ukraine, iraq, syria, libya, afghanistan and yemen, just to justify arms shipments and war. it would make you sick.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your support. the resolution of problems by violence is in no way justifiable and unacceptable. as physically weaker women are the most vulnerable to violence, not only in societies where women must submit to men completely, but also in our democratic societies. violence is an expression of weakness and inability to resolve problems in a respectful and appropriate manner. a father who strikes his children's mother must ask himself what wounds and suffering he has caused his children. this blow could be lifelong, unfortunately, negative. my best memory of my father and mother is that i could see and admire their respect and care for each other in old age. and it's also the most beautiful children's journey a parent can give to their child. awareness-raising, awareness-raising and legislation can help improve the situation in society.
mr president, i think it would be utterly hypocritical of us to mark international day for the elimination of violence against women without calling for a ceasefire in gaza, because what greater violence is there than murder? and in the last 47 days, at least 3800 palestinian women have been murdered in gaza by the apartheid state of israel. 800,000 of them have been displaced. 50,000 of those are pregnant – against a shattered health service, they’re undergoing caesarean sections on hospital floors without anaesthetic. register and recognise the violence of that. now the un special rapporteur on violence against women has said that since 7 october, the assault on palestinian women’s rights has reached new and terrifying dimensions. but this has not only started in october; palestinian women have endured years of ruthless violence under israeli occupation. ahed tamimi was a symbol of palestinian resistance in 2017, when she was imprisoned at the age of 16. she is now back in prison again. we have to stand by all women. release ahed tamimi.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, mrs commissioner, i rarely approve and i rarely agree with commission proposals, but this is one of them. this is a good initiative, so the commission can be congratulated, which i rarely do. i want you to mark it. it's not usually like that. and yes, the suggestion to support young researchers is useful, but if you take recommendations, i would make one, of course, and it's about young researchers being encouraged to engage in real science. science that brings added value, science that supports the development of high technology, science in the field of precise sciences like mathematics, like physics, like biology, like chemistry, like astronomy things that would help young europeans to be competitive and develop an economy that can provide a surplus product and technology to stay in europe. my personal opinion is that social in the sciences of the day, like critical race theory or gender studies, is not directed at the scientific potential and the scientific world. they're more ideology than science, and they're more politics than science. so if you focus the commission's efforts on actually supporting researchers in the realms of precise science, those that have added value and precise product, that would be helpful. if we turn away, as we do in the united states and in the united kingdom, from topics that are completely false and completely unreal, like the ones i just mentioned -- the so-called critical race theory, i'm telling you for the second time, and the various so-called gender studies -- it will help idealize universities, destroy science, equate and displace young people's efforts, steer them in the wrong direction. the results of researchers in the united states and the united kingdom who have been working in similar fields are evident. we see how the overall level of education is falling and what the results of the transfer of ideology and politics into the fields of science are. that's not helpful, but otherwise, congratulations on the rest of the venture. that deserves support.
madam president, before they become scientists, our young people are students and they are students; and they need at least a laptop, at least a tablet, and they need a reasonable home to live in and a rent. right now they can't afford, most of them, none of this, under any circumstances of allocation, let alone of scholarship. the money we're allocating here is very much. we like to sign billions on paper. i just don't get to them, i get to some rectors, some university heads that no one ever changes, who stay there for life. our young people get to research, only they search websites to find jobs, job sites, and our young people leave their countries to find a better future and we just sit and watch this thing. i want to ask you: don't you think it would be a sensible thing, at least, i don't know, to help them, to give them their money directly, to stop taking their rectors, to give them at least a plane ticket, to go back to where they are, christmas and easter, home? i think we should think about this very seriously.
madam president, quality research obviously requires very good working conditions and i think in the report the authors describe the considerable difficulties faced by young researchers in obtaining permanent academic posts. the quest, i suppose, for permanent contracts is complex, and it does have an impact on academic freedom as well. we hear, talk and see evidence of the pressure on young researchers to publish in much-sought-after journals, which often encourage focus on sort of hot topic areas, rather than on the whole approach to consolidating knowledge through a careful process of corroboration and documenting research. all of this is a consequence of neoliberals’ attack on academia. knowledge and research has become commodified for profit and business interests, rather than for societies and the public’s general knowledge and benefits. we see arts and classics particularly debased, and researchers left in precarious positions. we need public funding for an increase in public polls to support high-quality research.
madam president, the irish federation of university teachers has warned of alarming levels of precarious employment in irish higher education institutions. among the 550 academics they surveyed, 36% consider themselves precariously employed. thousands of workers in third-level institutions in ireland have non-permanent, temporary or zero-hour contracts, often with no access to benefits such as holiday or sick pay. the younger they are, the worse it gets. phd researchers in ireland are officially classified as students. this means they are in a grey area, where they face most requirements of employment, but reap hardly any of the benefits. the average phd stipend is one of the lowest in the european union and well below the minimum wage. and remember, ireland is one of the most expensive countries in europe to live in. irish universities who are chronically underfunded have come to rely on the unpaid labour of phd students to keep the lights on. it’s unacceptable. all researchers deserve fair wages and a dignified working environment.
the minutes and texts adopted of yesterday’s sitting are available. are there any comments? as that is not the case, the minutes are approved.
the next item is the explanations of vote.
madam president, i am not going to say anything. it is true that whenever we talk about improving the security of the european union, talking about improving our cooperation in the fight against crime, the answer is always from here: greater european integration. instead of cooperating as voluntary member states, as independent national states, the solution must always be found in ever closer cooperation with a transnational structure. it is simply not understandable, when we look at how well-functioning police cooperation such as interpol is, where intergovernmental cooperation is, that in the eu we do not understand that instead of continuously increasing integration, the answer could also be to motivate national authorities to use cooperation more. for example, when you look at europol's database, denmark is one of the countries that extracts the most data, even though we are not involved in the governmental construction. so instead of getting more eu, try to use what's available.
madam president, i am not going to say anything. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. denmark has a special status as a third country because of our legal reserves, and sometimes it seems that in the eu people prefer to stay out of the way rather than fight organized crime together. to fight what happens when international gangs, international criminal organizations, the mafia try to destroy, corrupt our countries. we therefore simply call on the european parliament, the commission and the council to make these programmes open to a much greater extent, not only to european countries but also to police authorities in other countries. we must recognize that crime has unfortunately become an international phenomenon. but it doesn't stop at the national border. it also does not stop at an eu border. it will only stop if we cooperate between well-functioning countries, and that is what we are asking for.
madam president, i voted in favour of the report on this strategic compass and the european union's space-based defence capabilities. in the current geopolitical context of increasing strategic competition and increasing threats to the european union, decisive steps must be taken to ensure its security. on 10 march 2023, the first-of-its-kind eu space strategy for security and defence was adopted, and this is important and useful. the union is significantly behind the other space forces. we've seen in practice how important geospatial imaging and strong connectivity are in military purposes, maneuvering and defense. our task is to have autonomy in this area, to ensure that european countries have access to such systems. all these actions must be within the framework of the north atlantic treaty and in line with its strategic actions. the report is ambitious and probably looks very far off, but i think that in the face of the serious military outbreak in europe and the military conflicts at our borders, measures should be taken to ensure the security and defence of the union.
madam president, i voted against this report. for decades, european space efforts have been civilian, and this report attempts to move us away from that. the generals and the arms lobbyists are knocking at the door with pockets full of threat multipliers and defence research proposals. privatisation and militarisation of the final frontier: one great stride for war and one giant leap for profit. and the meps are going along with it. the first cosmonaut, yuri gagarin, wrote, ‘let us preserve our planet, not destroy it’. two years ago william shatner, at 90, became the oldest ever astronaut. looking down, he saw life in the face of climate devastation and described it as ‘the strongest feelings of grief i have ever had’. the clock is running out. we do not have time to waste colonising our solar system. militarising space will not solve world conflicts, it will only make them worse. we call on the eu to change course, to embrace peaceful cooperation and scientific discovery on our planet’s surface and above it.
madam president, this is not a serious report. it’s reckless and irresponsible in the extreme. i voted against it. the greatest risk to eu space infrastructure is the abundance of space traffic and debris. the solution is to develop, at un level, an effective framework for the coordination of space situational awareness, and to develop norms and principles for space debris removal. instead, the report weaponises trumped up nonsense and threat inflation about goodies and baddies, with the aim of militarising and creating an arms race in space while cutting off avenues of international cooperation. it is a bonanza for the arms industry, whose money is obviously well spent wearing out the carpets in the commission and parliament in brussels, but a disaster for humankind, who need there to be a multilateral collaboration and a peaceful operating theatre in space in order to navigate the central threat to life on earth, the climate crisis. we need a new international treaty to ensure peace, security and prevention of a space arms race. the report works against this essential need.
madam president, i am not going to say anything. so we're back here. once again, more money has been demanded for emergency aid, for humanitarian work. despite the fact that danish and european taxpayers have paid for generations without seeing any improvement. the worst part is that a large part of this money must be directed through so-called ngos, associations that claim to have nothing to do with countries, but for the most part receive the greatest part of their financial resources and budgets from the very nation states, while often having a radicalised and leftist ideology which they try to suppress over conflicts. we see this in the gaza conflict, where a number of ngos from doctors without borders to the international criminal court and the red cross are trying to instill an ideological interpretation of the war in the throats of the same taxpayers who are forced to finance their work. whether they agree with them or not. if you want to be an ngo, say no to government money, try fundraising them yourself, and see how many people agree with your messages.
madam president, i voted for this report because i believe that an improved approach to humanitarian aid is, in fact, badly needed. we see this, in particular, as the reports emerge of the commission blocking necessary aid to palestinian organisations, killing them with paperwork even as the humanitarian disaster gets worse there. talk of monitoring their social media posts, insinuating that legitimate criticisms of zionist israel is the same as anti-semitism, which of course it isn’t. i also believe that forgotten crises need to be remembered. i particularly want to put on record the appalling devastation being experienced by the people of afghanistan two years after the us withdrawal. the country is as unstable as it was. their bank assets are still frozen and taken by the west. we had a recent earthquake where 3 000 people died and it didn’t even get a mention in the newspaper. over a million afghans are being expelled from pakistan with nowhere to go. how is this people supposed to expect to face a deadly winter? usd 400 million needed by the world food bank, and not a fraction of that money coming before them.
madam president, this report on humanitarian aid strategy talks about increasing aid, preventive measures on conflict and the climate crisis, and ensuring sanctions do not hinder aid provision. the sad truth is the eu and its allies are barrelling along in the opposite direction. nato occupied and bombed afghanistan for 20 years, flooding the place with weapons, then ran away with 7 billion in central bank funds. millions are attempting to flee due to food insecurity, approaching famine conditions, breakdown of the economy and natural disasters. and still, the west refuses to lift the crippling sanctions that are the main drivers of the crisis. millions flee to iran, but we’re sanctioning them to death as well. what about yemen, where eu member states took part in a genocidal war that used famine as a weapon? it’s almost obscene for the eu to talk about innovative aid strategies when our like-minded partners, the us, are revealing the coordinates of aid groups in gaza so israel can bomb them, and now the commission has sanctioned them, so they’ll never be able to rebuild. let’s get real.
madam president, 'job creation, a fair transition, positive investment' is the report i did not support and voted against. this sounds like the title of a report to the political bureau of the presidium of the central committee of the communist party of the european union on the successful implementation of the five year plan or in the countries of the union for economic mutual assistance, younger than you do not remember it at all. another report, heightened by the green alarm, which focuses on climate change without taking into account that europe as a continent is actually the least polluting. and despite the good headline, this report does not suggest measures to create jobs. on the contrary, it aims and will be able to close jobs and lead to the depopulation of entire regions. this will also happen in bulgaria as coal-fired power stations in the marish basin close down. and by the way, those of you who talk about green energy, let's see now how much electricity is produced by these coals and how much is produced by the feathers. it employs 12,000 people and is the backbone of the region's economy and energy. this fair transition will leave them out of work, and the money allocated to it by the mechanism will go to certain companies that make pens and solar panels nothing more. that's why i voted against the report. he's anti-investment, anti-market, anti-industrial, he's anti-european by nature. europe needs development, business, a strong economy, not a green communism of a planned economy.
mrs president, ladies and gentlemen, how is employment created? first of all, we should avoid taking him out of his job. we have a unique opportunity to reform those mechanisms that are crushing the economies of some member states but we have been unable to do anything. italy has a public debt of 2 800 billion but has already paid out 3 000 billion euros in interest expenses to the bankers. is this normal? yet every year the italians register a primary surplus which is totally absorbed by interest expenditure. and then italy found the solution: the commission has already decided to extend the scope of the proposal to the member states. in italy, the south is sacrificed to maintain competitiveness only in the central and northern regions. and european funds are a ridiculous proportion of what is being taken from the south every year. so jobs are created on one side of the country, but destroyed on the other. i say that the european executive has to explain why it is not doing anything to prevent these injustices.
madam president, i voted for this report. parliament’s position on spyware should be clear: no sale of it, no use of it. full stop. the end. it’s not abuse that’s the problem as the resolution said – it’s use. there is no way to use spyware that isn’t abusive. it’s a weapon, it’s targeting our civilians, and no european government should be using weapons against its citizens, against civilians. of course, it is no surprise at all that this was developed in israel, israel being infamous for being at the cutting edge of technologies of vicious repression. it is the nerve centre of global development of technologies of violence, subjugation and control, weapons and surveillance technology tested on palestinians and marketed and sold to western governments, with boasts of its effectiveness in grinding people’s rights into the dust. there is even a name for it: the palestine laboratory. well, as long as this laboratory exists, the world is a more dangerous, violent place, and the cause of palestine is the cause of the world. if anyone in here cares about human rights, you’ll wake up and recognise that.
madam president, no pollinators means no agriculture. it’s as simple as that. in 2020, the european court of auditors found that the first eu pollinators initiative had little effect on the halting of pollinator decline. it’s very hard to have any fate at all in the revised initiative’s ability to halt pollinator decline after what happened in this chamber yesterday with the sustainable use of pesticides regulation vote. the epp tabled an amendment to the pollinators initiative report to delete support for the alignment of the pollinators initiative with the nature restoration law. they do not want legally binding rules, just guidelines. they do not want binding national reduction targets, just plans. there were 65 votes in favour of this report in the environment committee, 1 vote against and 3 abstentions. but this is just a report with no consequences in the real world. it’s not legislation. everyone says they want to save the bees, but only unless it means intensive agriculture can continue as normal and we don’t have to upset big agri and the pesticide companies.
madam president, commissioner, you said at the outset of your speech that democracy is the ‘individual right to be heard’. of course, we speak about individuals, constituents, constituencies and member states. but it’s equally important that we ensure that individual member states’ right to be heard is protected as well. in this particular report, i just want to bring some concerns to your attention: that ‘whereas the union-wide constituency, in combination with the lead candidate system, could foster the european public debate and empower european political parties’. then it goes on to say that the ‘system has led to disappointment among many voters and reduced trust in the process; whereas such a disappointment must be avoided at the next european elections’. i can safely say, commissioner, that i’ve never had major discussions with constituents who are disappointed about the fact that the lead candidate system is not in place – being quite truthful. i believe that if we want to protect democracy, we should encourage citizens to be more proactive in the actual process of parliamentary democracy themselves, in making sure it’s easier for them to vote, and having good, robust political debate. but i believe that tinkering or threatening to change the treaties, without having proper due diligence done on the impact that could have on small countries, could diminish the european union and the democracy of same as well.
madam president, i think the report – initially ambitious – was largely gutted by the epp in what is becoming quite a trend in here with reports. and so we have taxation, instead of being the great leveller, being used as a sort of a robin hood in reverse, robbing from the poor and those on middle incomes to enrich those at the very top – whether it’s the military industrial complex, big pharma, big agri, there it is. an eu wealth tax on the top richest 0.5% in each company would bring in eur 213 billion in additional revenue every year, according to a recent report. this top 0.5% alone holds almost 20% of europe’s wealth, which has increased over 35% in the last 10 years and ultimately is getting off very, very lightly. for too long, governments are relying on austerity, cutting costs, making ordinary people pay. well, this inequality can’t go on much longer. capitalism has created its own gravediggers. the game is up.
madam president, another report watered down by the epp. in the last two years we have gone from crisis to crisis. covid-19, the war in ukraine and the resulting cost of living crisis have exasperated pre-existing structural challenges such as climate change, an ageing population and rising inequality. while the vast majority of people struggle to pay their bills, there are those that continue to reap massive profits from these crises. inflation has gripped the eu economy as corporations artificially keep prices high. corporate profits accounted for almost half of the increases in europe’s inflation over the past two years, whereas growth in wages last year was just a half of the increase in the cost of living. and the billionaires that profit are paying tax rates less than 1% of their wealth. this can’t go on. we need to tax the rich and tax corporate greed. we need tax justice and we need it now.
madam president, the promotion of the nuclear industry this report proposes would be a waste of money, and it would do little to address the climate crisis. small modular reactors do not address the fundamental problems associated with the nuclear industry. they fail to address the persistent nuclear waste problem, and introduce new risks in terms of the proliferation of nuclear materials. they are incredibly expensive and unproven solutions. the ipcc ar6 report from march this year is absolutely clear that nuclear power is one of the two least effective mitigation options, alongside carbon capture and storage. our focus should be on what we already know works to rapidly reduce emissions: energy efficiency and renewables. where do you think you’re going to source the uranium for these reactors? presumably, france will continue its colonial exploitation of the sahel. their nuclear industry is built on the back of cheap uranium supplies from places like niger and mali.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much for your pertinent remarks in today’s debate, and i am happy to see a broad agreement on the relevance of this discussion. the eu’s energy transition and climate policy framework. all actors, including the commission, have a role to play. we are currently completing the analysis on the upcoming 2040 climate target communication, but it is clear that we need all available technologies to play their role to the maximum in order to meet our climate objectives. in other words, smrs have a clear potential in the policy mix in this time frame and beyond. we will carry out the work on smrs, including the eu’s industrial alliance on smrs in an open and transparent manner. this is important for public engagement and trust, but also to ensure that all stakeholders that adhere to our policy priorities can participate in a collaborative way. the commission is looking forward to continue playing a strong role to facilitate cooperation, further initiatives, support research and innovation, develop skills and european industrial capabilities and capacities. our utmost priority will remain that the new smr designs are developed in a way to ensure the highest standards of nuclear safety, radiation protection for workers and citizens, responsible management of radioactive waste and spent fuel, and the reliable non-proliferation regime. this is an absolute must. to conclude, there is still a lot of work to be done, but our clear aim is to be able to design and deploy smrs at the beginning of the next decade. we are now in a good position to proceed in this direction in the framework of an eu industrial alliance. the commission will also continue close cooperation with the co-legislator to finalise, in the nearest future, the legislative initiatives relevant for smr technology and nuclear-power production at large. this includes the electricity market design reform and the hydrogen and decarbonised gas market package to strengthen the business case of clean energy investments, and the net zero industry act for the european ecosystem for cleantech. i am looking forward to seeing your report adopted by the plenary and continue our cooperation on that basis.
the reporter. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thank you very much for today's debate, for your support and also for the critical comments made during the debate. may i also thank my colleague edith from my office, florian, alex, and everyone else who helped me prepare the report. i also thank the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperative cooperation and for supporting the common text of this resolution by the epp, s&d, renew, ecr and id groups. in energy, i personally always swear by the principle of in-in, which is all the sources of electricity that are replenished. but we know that electricity today needs to be accessible, that it needs to be low-carbon and competitive, and that we need to have an energy mix that meets every need, regardless of the weather. nuclear energy has been on the sidelines in europe in recent years, mostly for ideological reasons, and technology development has been stalled in many countries as well. so i think it's right that today in the european union we jointly support the development of these technologies, which are also developing around the world, no matter what we do in europe, including with great support in the inflation reduction act in america, china, india, japan, korea. i also expect nuclear power, including small government reactors, to have conditions similar or identical to those of renewable energy. it would be rather strange if we had to close nuclear power plants in france because we didn't get a certain percentage of renewable energy here in the european union. so to achieve this, i expect support, financial support for the development of technology. i believe that the european investment bank will also classify and finance nuclear energy in a similar way to other low-carbon sources. i thank you once again for this discussion and i call upon you to support the report tomorrow at the ballot box.
in writing. it is a clear fact that the european commission's failed sanctions policy and supply difficulties have led to a serious energy crisis which undermines the competitiveness of the european economy and industry in the long term. in this situation, the long-term solution could be nuclear energy, which is a clean, stable and green energy source. one of the promising new technologies could be small modular reactors. the report under discussion is of the utmost importance. this may be the first resolution in 10 years to recognize the strategic importance of nuclear energy and the european nuclear supply chain. the rapid deployment of small modular reactors can be facilitated by the proposals in the report, in particular by harmonising the legislative framework, reducing bureaucratic burdens and establishing a financial support framework. it is also pleased that the document calls on the european commission to actively support and not hinder member states' efforts to develop small modular reactors. finally, it should be noted that the report could be a milestone in the path towards breaking with the green anti-nuclear ideology that is plunging europe into an energy crisis. however, for this to happen and for europe to finally pursue a sound energy policy, a change is needed in brussels. we can take the decisive step next june.
rapporteur. – madam president, i want to thank my shadow rapporteurs for the collaboration on this file. we have now a broad majority, which i hope will support the committee on transport and tourism (tran committee) result in the vote tomorrow. why do we need this regulation? i think we all know that transporting people is very different from transporting goods. and this is the reason why the parliament has asked and the commission has proposed this revision of the existing driving and resting time rules for the occasional passenger transport sector. at the tran committee, we support the commission’s view that some more flexibility is needed here, both for the drivers and for the passengers. occasional passenger transport, meaning usually tourist bus services are characterised by seasonality and changing circumstances during the trips. flexibility is in the essence of those services, and it is also the reason why the passengers have chosen that service and not the regular passenger service. at the same time, we must continue to always preserve road safety and ensure proper working conditions for the drivers. we should also keep in mind that the regulation on driving and resting times has been revised only a few years ago, as a part of the mobility package. therefore, these regulatory updates should remain limited and concern only the occasional passenger transport sector. with regard to the rules on brakes, the current rules do not, in practice, always match with the natural stops of occasional passenger journeys. too rigid timetables adds stress to the drivers. in order to be able to provide a good quality transport service, the drivers need to adapt to changing circumstances. the tran committee’s compromise on brakes now allows splitting the daily brake into two breaks of a minimum of 15 minutes each. these breaks can be divided in more flexible manner than in the current rules. on the rules on daily rests, the tran committee supports the possibility for postponing the start of the daily rest with one hour in certain situations. the tourism journeys are usually going like that, that longer distances driven at the beginning and the end of the tour, and by shorter driving time at the place where the touristic activities are taking place. the one extra hour allows the driver to better respond also to passenger needs. the main negotiation point has been the condition of the number of days required to use this derogation. the commission originally proposed that the derogation can be used on trips lasting eight days or longer. however, tourism trips in the eu on average are much shorter, only 4 to 5 days. for ensuring that the one-hour derogation can sometimes actually be used in practice the compromise brings the condition down to six days. one important objective of the eu rules on driving and resting times is to ensure fair competition within the eu internal market. therefore, at the tran committee, we support the commission proposal to allow drivers to postpone their weekly rest up to 12 days on both international and national journeys. the alignment of national and international services also simplifies the enforcement and control of driving and resting rules. we all know that all these rules do not matter if they are not enforced and controlled properly. already now, in practice, there are big challenges in several member states with enforcement and control of existing rules, both in freight and in passenger transport. therefore, at the tran committee, we have introduced measures to facilitate the work of control authorities with regards to, for example, digital journey forms and smart tachographs.
madam president, the european transport workers federation says poor work organisation, difficult working conditions, stress and fatigue due to ineffective brakes, increased workload due to additional tasks and a lack of enforcement are the main causes of driver shortages in the bus and coach sector. the drivers union wants better enforcement of the existing rules and no further flexibility. the existing driving and resting time rules already have the potential to ensure a decent work environment for these drivers, and there is no reason to revise them. this is the view of the union that represents the drivers themselves, the people most affected by the proposed changes. we should listen to those most affected, to workers, not to their bosses in the transport operation union. europe is not the bastion of workers rights it thinks it is all the time. its overall rating in the global rights index, published by the international trade union confederation, has fallen significantly in the last ten years. workers across europe deserve better.
member of the commission. – madam president, the commission would first like to thank the parliament for putting this important report on tonight’s agenda. during the mobility package fund discussions, the co-legislators noticed that the driving and rest time rules do not take into account the specificities of bus and coach occasional services, and requested the commission to assess the need to revise them. in light of this assessment, the commission presented a proposal taking into account the specificities of the bus and coach occasional transport services. drivers in this sector have a different work rhythm compared to those in freight or regular passenger transport, due to the high seasonality and varying driving distances depending on passengers’ tourist activities. the commission’s proposal would allow bus and coach drivers providing such services to distribute their brakes and respites more flexibly. like this, we want to reduce driver stress and fatigue levels and at the same time improve the quality of occasional passenger services without changing the minimum duration of breaks or rest periods that must be respected to ensure the drivers recuperation. whilst the commission reserves its position at this stage, the commission would nevertheless like to thank ms virkkunen for her very good report, which is very much in line with the objectives of the commission proposal. the commission is also hopeful that early agreement can be reached on this proposal, and would urge co-legislators to start trialogues as soon as possible. however, the commission would like to share a couple of observations on the report. the first one relates to the creation of a multilingual interface for the submission of journey forms. we think that this would be disproportionate in terms of costs and resources, given the size of the sector, and that an update of tachographs should be enough for control purposes. the second one relates to the flexibility of daily rest periods. whilst we welcome the reduction of the length of journeys eligible for derogations, we believe that further flexibility could be foreseen in the situation when drivers have less accumulated driving time.
the debate is over and the vote will be delivered tomorrow. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 171.
the following table summarises the report by alexander bernhuber on food: amending certain food directives (a9-0385/2023). this is interesting. i'm giving a speech to the presenter for four minutes. i'm asking you to speak with me, mr. bernhuber.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, let me begin by offering my congratulations to the honourable member bernhuber and his colleagues in the envi committee, as well as honourable member fragkos and his colleagues in the agri committee. thanks to your great efforts, we are on the eve of trilogue negotiations on the so-called ‘breakfast directives’. as you know, the commission first tabled its proposal back in april as part of a series of initiatives to review marketing standards in the spirit of the farm to fork strategy. based on a detailed impact assessment, the commission proposal aimed to stimulate healthier products by decreasing their sugar content, and also to promote healthier and more sustainable diets by improving the labelling of products, thereby empowering consumers to put greater knowledge behind their food choices. the commission is hopeful that the review of the breakfast directives can be completed under the current parliament mandate. of course, there are divergences between the parliament text, the council mandate and the commission proposal. our capacity to find compromise will be tested on a small number of specific issues. for example, we must find compromise on the labelling of exact percentages of honey origins, and the requirement for the commission to find lab tests that ascertain honey’s country of origin. we must also find compromise on the issue of imposing a traceability system that goes beyond the food law regulation. finally, we must find compromise on the labelling of the country of origin for fruit used to produce juices and jams, and sugar in jams. finding compromise and concluding the discussion on these and other issues will require goodwill on all sides, determination from all parties, and the readiness of each actor to make a step towards the other. in the upcoming trilogue process, i call on the honourable members to maintain their spirit of diligence, balance and persistence, which has enabled such good progress in this file so far. you can count on the commission to do its part, so that we can close this file and open a new chapter for healthier and more sustainable diets for our citizens.
madam president, i asked the catch-the-eye to speak on this debate.
i mean, we didn't have any announcements, but please. the situation is also that we are waiting for our colleague cerdasia, who is not here, so please use this extra catch-the-eye talk. speeches given on request
madam president, we have been informed, members, that we can intervene in the catch-the-eye procedure. first of all, i would like to welcome the proposal from the european commission and thank my colleague alexander bernhuber for the way he has handled this case. through the work submitted to the european parliament, we have managed to set out several directions of action, starting from the undeniable reality highlighted by european control structures. thus, almost half of the honey imported into europe is counterfeit, and 74 percent of chinese honey is not in line with european standards. european consumers need a guarantee of product quality. at the same time, the european union's beekeeping sector is subject to deep unfair competition and non-compliant honey is causing hard-to- bear profit losses. that is why we need mandatory labelling with the country of origin and the percentage (and here i stress, commissioner, the percentage), but also identification of the mechanisms and procedures for counterfeiting honey so that they can be effectively combated. it is our responsibility, dear colleagues, as representatives of the interests of citizens, to ensure that legislation and regulations respect consumers and protect farmers.
the discussion is over. the vote will be delivered tomorrow. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 of this regulation.
the following is a brief presentation on the report by sara cerdas on mental health [2023/2074(ini] (a9-0367/2023).
madam president, i wish to follow in the footsteps of my colleague mep cerdas by spending this time to remind our farm families and rural communities that, just as you and your families tend to your land on behalf of us europeans, please also tend to the mental health also. farmers’ hard work sustains us all, and yet, day in and day out, our farmers’ day can be overwhelming. it can be isolating, and face constant change in policy, driven here by the parliament, leaving their mental health to be destroyed at times. a terrifying reality is that suicide ideation is twice as high among farmers than in the general population. so i’m pleading to all our farmers to break the silence, the stigma and the fear, and ask for help. in my own country of ireland, we have taken steps in the right direction with programmes such as ‘on firm ground’ and ‘make the move’, and research recently done by ucd school of agriculture and food. but i plead with the commission today to make mental health a real political priority. we need mental health initiatives and continuous funding at an eu level to stop death by suicide, and substantially support our farmers, colleagues, friends and families faced with this silent pandemic in our society today.
madam president, access to mental healthcare is a human right. yet in ireland, more than 4 500 children are on a waiting list for the children and adolescent mental health service. more than 500 children have been waiting for more than a year, and some have been waiting for more than two years. we’ve had a suicide epidemic in my own county of wexford for years. ireland spends just 6% of its total health budget on mental health. germany spends 12%, norway spends 13.5% and france spends 15%. in ireland, we have a medicalised mental health model that all stakeholders appear to agree is a massive problem. over 15 000 prescriptions for antidepressants were issued to children aged 15 and younger last year in ireland. that’s an increase of 130% compared to 10 years ago. yet still, we have little or no public health talk therapy, and any eu mental health strategy must take an integrated and rights-based approach and should reject the medicalised mental health model.
madam president, it’s not a coincidence that three of the four speakers are from ireland, because we have a huge problem in ireland in terms of mental health, but we’re not the only ones. mental health in europe is taking a nosedive, and our chronically underfunded and overworked healthcare professionals can’t cope. the pandemic and its aftermath have exacerbated clear deficits in our care system, leaving thousands of vulnerable people without the support they need. but really, is it any wonder that europeans face record levels of stress, as more and more people struggle to feed their families, heat their homes? pay is dwindling, prices are soaring, and it’s ordinary people who get caught in the crossfire. thirty-seven per cent of workers under 30 are on temporary contracts. most young europeans live paycheque to paycheque without ever having the prospect of a decent roof over their heads. we’re witnessing failing safety nets, exploitative business practices, money-driven politics and severe inequality. neoliberal capitalism has done untold damage to the well-being and mental health of europeans. it breeds disempowerment, isolation and uncertainty. we can’t talk about mental health without talking about the conditions that trigger it.
madam president, the stability pact and the associated rules of economic governance constitute an unacceptable instrument for conditioning member states' budgetary and economic policies, which may be further aggravated by the ongoing review process. on the contrary, it is required to revoke it and replace it with a pact for social progress and employment. the stability pact and the associated rules of economic governance constitute an unacceptable instrument of budgetary constraint. a demand which several members of the european parliament have put together in a letter which we have been promoting to the institutions of the european union and which we have also put forward here in the committee on economic affairs and employment. we reaffirm the urgency of a pact for social progress and employment which respects the sovereignty of each state, which ensures the conditions for its economic and social development in order to overcome structural deficits and improve its productive capacity; which promotes full employment, labour and social rights, collective employment, the eradication of precariousness; which defends and strengthens public services, in particular in the fields of health, education, social security, housing or culture; which embodies the principles of economic, social and territorial cohesion. (the president withdraws the speaker)
the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the chances of romania entering the schengen area, at least by air, have increased as a result of the adoption of a more flexible position by the netherlands and austria. romania's accession to the schengen area by air is an advantage for our country and a first step in the process of full accession to the free movement zone, because romanians deserve to be in schengen. romanian citizens will move more easily to other schengen countries, gaining a right they deserve. the commission considers that the commission has not yet established a specific measure to prevent the use of airports in the eu. romania will be able to transport essential products, parcels or even use emergency transport through the air canal more easily into the schengen area. our country will become, we hope, more attractive to investment, foreign investors and tourists. after almost 13 years of waiting, a change that many considered impossible is finally taking place, a hard-won step forward, a right of romanians that no one can and should ever question.
madam president, in september and november, the european court of human rights issued decisions on latvia concerning russian schools. the court found that the measures taken by the latvian government to increase the use of the national language in schools had been proportionate and necessary to, in particular, unity in the education system. but as we know, the eu slogan is not just ‘unity’ but ‘unity in diversity’. by taking away the word ‘diversity’, we justify the policy of forceful assimilation and transition to total uniformity. the virus of russophobia that seems to have infected a lot of judges of the european court of human rights, is as dangerous as the viruses of anti-semitism and islamophobia. the next target of these viruses will be the entire system of the international legal order, since the decisions of the european court of human rights are precedent and will concern all minorities.
madam president, yet another high-level ukrainian official has come out to say that nato blocked ukraine peace talks. david arakhamia was a top negotiator for the ukrainian delegation during the spring 2022 peace talks held in istanbul. he says russia was prepared to end the war if ukraine committed to not joining nato. but the western powers weren’t interested, and boris johnson flew to kyiv on 9april to inform zelenskyy that ukraine would not be signing anything on russia and told him to just keep fighting. hundreds of thousands of soldiers and civilians have since been killed. ukraine is destroyed, and refugees are still fleeing the collapsing society. the war is driving the eu into recession. ukraine and the eu have been sacrificed for nato’s geostrategic goals, and brussels has paved the way. you wouldn’t call for peace in ukraine, and now you won’t call for a ceasefire in gaza. ukraine and gaza are two bloodbaths that the eu has been happy to facilitate. we should be ashamed of ourselves.
the president, seacht weeks of thubaiste to d'fhulaing the gaza strip. for seven weeks, the council of europe has been writing a letter to israel, and it has not yet been able to reach a resolution on the european union's nuclear deal. seacht weeks, then, you're so very helpful. seachtain na gaeilge was still a good day at the smionagar, lena was a good chur i dtalamh. and the king of israel shall read the sea again. 18,000 dead at least and every one of them will be sold in europe and they will be sent to israel. the european union is going to burn you. they don't stand to be in ireland or israel. i'm not in the saortha le haghaidh muintir eile a chur faoi smacht. we'll be making laws in palestine. there will be a phalaistín free or in the haibhneacha go till an fharraige. i'm going to take a nap. i'll be there in palestine.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think anyone can argue that we need to have critical raw materials in the european union, to produce, to stop depending on third countries, to have raw materials for important sectors: agriculture, health, construction and even defence. commissioner, in addition to the growing demand for raw materials, there is a problem with specialists. we have a shortage of 1,200,000 specialists by 2030 in electromobility alone. we need to invest here, make the critical raw materials specialty attractive. there is still an urgent need to act to create this value chain here in the european union. this regulation will certainly help the re-industrialization strategy that we launched a long time ago. we need to improve recycling and yes, we need to stop being directly or indirectly dependent on third countries. we must not criticize third countries that produce - we must do the same and it is good that the european committee on critical substances has been proposed, but it is not enough. it is important that it functions and i would like the european parliament to be a member of this committee, not an observer. i appreciate that there is a sub-group that emphasizes the involvement of smes, but, commissioner, it should not happen that the procurement directive only involves smes in theory. we have to act here to support smes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, critical raw materials are the essential components of many technologies needed for green industry and require careful and conscious management. our dependence on these resources must be balanced by a clear understanding of the environmental and social impacts of their extraction and production, both on our continent and especially in the major producers outside the eu. in this context, the tripartite agreement sets out measures aimed at ensuring both sustainable management of these resources and the promotion of new sustainable mining and production practices. the increase in recycling and reuse is also the cornerstone of national circularity plans, which aim to combine economic growth with the defence of our planet. this agreement therefore offers us the opportunity to strengthen the strategic autonomy of our continent and to continue the transition to a net-zero-emission economy by 2050, but, commissioner, to combat real environmental and social disasters in extractive mines outside the eu.
mr president, i thank all the negotiators for their excellent performance and their speedy handling of this legislation. i consider this initiative to secure critical raw materials to be one of the most important initiatives of this election period. the european union must not be too dependent on a single supplier, a third country, in any critical sector. it is important that we increase the production of critical raw materials in europe and the processing and recycling in europe. it would be irresponsible to drive the green transition and try to outsource all its disadvantages to the rest of the world. we know that in europe we can produce, process and recycle these raw materials in a responsible way, both from an environmental and labour point of view. it is equally important to invest more in research and product development in this sector and to seek to find replacement, sustainable raw materials and to actively engage in partnerships with like-minded countries in order to ensure that under all circumstances we have the capacity to operate.
mr president, the transition to renewables will require a massive increase in levels of extraction. well, we can significantly limit that increase by reducing absolute resource consumption. the parliament’s 2021 report on the circular economy action plan called on the commission to propose targets to significantly reduce the eu’s material and consumption footprints by 2030 and bring them within planetary boundaries by 2050. that was three years ago, and still the commission has not acted. instead, with the critical raw materials act, the eu is preparing to write a blank cheque for the mining and arms industries while pretending this is climate action. aluminium and titanium have been added to the list of critical raw materials. these minerals have very little to do with the energy transition, but they are crucial for the arms industry and the f-22 stealth bomber contains 39% titanium. the critical raw materials act will not make our economy greener, but it will certainly make a fortune for the arms industry.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, executive vice-president, colleagues, first of all, i want to thank colleague iuliu winkler for his work. i also want to state that i’m proud that this parliament, over the last almost five years, has done quite a lot to consequently work on enhancing the relationship between the eu and taiwan. the debate today is another step in that direction, and i think that is very important. i do recognise, vice-president, that the commission also has stepped up its efforts, as you explained, and i do also support your expectation towards taiwan that there is homework to be done on their side also, in particular with regard to the issues that you mentioned, offshore wind and agricultural food products. but i also want to point out that when we look at what the us does or what japan just did, in agreeing on memorandums of understanding or in trade facilitation deals with taiwan, there’s room to improve our work. here i want to voice a warning. as colleague winzig said, we have to combine trade and political stability and the effort to reap the fruits of trade without actively contributing to political stability will be futile. we cannot just dodge the question, vice-president, of whether we’re willing to sign an agreement with taiwan. we need a resilient supply chain agreement, not just because of the beneficial trade results, but also because of the beneficial stability results, and the commission should not dodge that necessity.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the world is moving into the ‘blocisation’ of geopolitics. we see the war in ukraine, tensions between the united states and the people’s republic of china rising, and the attack of hamas on israel. it all exposes a deep rift between liberal democracies, on the one hand, and authoritarian and theocratic regimes, on the other. consequently, protectionism is on the rise, and a decline in global free trade would hurt our open economies and endanger security and prosperity. as eu, we need to protect our economic interests. we should strengthen the economic ties with like-minded partners. and this puts taiwan, as a democratic and economic partner, at the forefront. as a vital player in global supply chains, taiwan safeguards our concrete economic interests. at the same time, we should not misuse our economic relations with taiwan to aggravate the tensions with the people’s republic of china. we should refrain from a cold war mentality. in the end, our strongest deterrent against war and conflict is free trade, interdependency and economic growth for all.
mr president, dear colleagues, our european union is, as a matter of fact, the largest investor in taiwan with current amount of more than eur 40 billion in foreign direct investment, representing 28% of all foreign investments in taiwan. as it is our strategic partner, not only in economic terms, definitely we need to send a positive signal to our investors that we take it seriously. we need to improve our trade relations, because taiwan is a key partner of our industry when it comes to semiconductors, artificial intelligence and competitiveness general, particularly in the digital field. we need to set conditions for our new eu-taiwan free trade agreement, which will create preconditions for further development of our cooperation. taiwan is significant partner also in terms of protection of democratic principles, in terms of fighting against misinformation and propaganda. also, i learned personally a lot visiting taiwan recently. also, nowadays we are facing a global fight between totalitarian and democratic regimes, and therefore democracies should stand together, i do believe. taiwan deserves more than ever to be part of wha and other international organisations, where they should play inevitable role on paths to strengthen global democratic trends. i do believe this topic should be also among our priorities of the upcoming eu-china summit.
president, it is a bit of an open door trap, but today's geopolitical challenges are enormous: the war in ukraine; the conflict between hamas and israel, which has led to the footsteps of all humanitarian rules; china, which has been violating international trade rules for more than a decade. and at this time it is extremely important that we draw the map of multilateralism from the european union. - in all areas. yes, on trade, yes, on climate, but also on human rights and international security. those things go together. you can't choose selectively in that. and then taiwan is very important and a very good example. because the eu and taiwan are two hands on one leg. we are what we call like-minded countries, both in terms of democracy and economy. and that is why it is so important that we take a clear stand on this. a real deal, like a resilient supply chain agreement or a trade agreement, but also fight for their place in the world health organization. that is the clear question parliament is asking the commission.
mr president, honourable commissioner, it is at this critical time that we need to build partnerships with partners who are democratic and reliable, and taiwan is such a partner. they share with us values and human rights commitments. we appreciate his help during the covid-19 crisis and his coordination in supporting ukraine and coordinating sanctions against russia. despite this increase in cooperation and we see it in the investment field, the european union's investment in taiwan has increased by 131% over the last decade and taiwan's investment in eu territory by 352% there is room for improvement, and we therefore call on the european commission and the european external action service to develop a strategy and to start work on a resilient supply chain agreement with taiwan as soon as possible. with this step, we want to strengthen the security of taiwan and its silicon shield, which is more than 60% of all chips produced. cooperation with taiwan is beneficial for the eu and the member states.
mr president, the uk agreed a trade partnership with taiwan last month, upsetting beijing, who object to any international actions that appear to recognise taiwan’s sovereignty. just 13 countries have official diplomatic relations with taiwan, mainly british commonwealth islands, us military bases moonlighting as sovereign nations, and countries ruled by an overt fascist. those pushing for the eu to follow the british example are doing the work of the us and nato. the us is engaged in an economic war with china, and much like they used ukraine to sever economic ties between the eu and russia, tanking german industry and creating an eu-wide recession in the process, they will use taiwan to cut the eu from china. this will be the final nail in the coffin for eu industry and for essential cooperation on essential matters like climate change. i only hope the people of taiwan look at the sad fate of ukraine and are wise enough not to let themselves be sacrificed at the altar of us imperialist designs.
the reaction is according to the blue card procedure. i would like to review the text again after your insistence on this point. i think that, of course, national health systems need to take a look at this as well. on the one hand, you have a very strong right to confidentiality of medical consultations or visits. but on the other hand, there is of course also the interest of the whole system to not allow waste by not showing up in the system of dates that have been perceived. this is a difficult balance, because on the one hand, of course, there is the interest of the patient or patient in being protected with his or her data, but on the other hand there is also the interest in the efficiency of the whole system. we need to balance that. we want to strike a fair balance with our colleagues in order to finally allow for the possibility of such a move, either immediately or at a later date.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights and the right to health and safety in the workplace is a key step forward. i see there's a lot of progress here, so i'll share my personal experience. you end up in strasbourg in a hospital, you have four doctors, you spend six hours there, and you explain to everyone again what's wrong with you and what your history is. this is my case that happened during one of the plenary sessions. if there was a database at that point, where the first doctor who examined me would have access to my medical records, i wouldn't have gone through all the agony i've been through. so when you're reviewing whether we're on the right track, please consider that. several times here, and colleagues here have pointed out that actually integrating digital technologies into the healthcare system means better access to information, which is exactly what i said, improved quality of care and effective prevention. personalized medicine, let's look a little bit into the future, and in some countries and the present, i think it can improve our health systems. and at the end of the day, when you draw the line, we can save lives and cut down on the amount of money we invest in healthcare systems.
question addressed under the blue card issuer procedure. madam president, my dear colleague, i agree with what you have said. you gave an example, and i want to tie myself to the example you gave. if a patient goes and, sure, if it would work what we want now (data transmission), shouldn't data transmission always be done only at the patient's request? how do we ensure that no personal data about us, about diseases we have, and, for example, at the request of an employer or institution, is transmitted? how can we ensure that this data transfer is requested only at the patient's request?
answer to the question posed by raising the blue card. i think you should look at the document again, and besides, we'll still discuss it in some other context. so, you agree with what i said, i see you're climbing. so we're going to be the ones who determine a certain level of availability of our data, so don't be skeptical. i don't think anything would happen to anyone. consider, in particular, rare diseases, people with cancer. so let's give all of us a chance to upgrade the system. no system is perfect, and no law is, as they say, carved into stone. if this system isn't perfect, and maybe not at first, we're going to change it, we're going to wear it out. privacy, i think the reporters have built that up well, is first and foremost.
replicates in the blue card procedure. dear colleague, in fact, you have not answered my question. of course i'm not skeptical. of course, to the specific question i asked you, you didn't answer me. you told me i didn't read the report. i read the report very well. i ask you again, how can we make sure that this document doesn't transmit data unless the patient asks for it?
the reaction to the blue card procedure. just as planned, i think your colleague sokol told you at the beginning of what you insist on. why do you think we would... you're actually putting that presumption of innocence in the starting position instead of first seeing if someone's guilty and then passing judgment. that's what i would put. you're going to throw a little, this one, in the context of the report. so i think there are mechanisms, and don't be afraid that they'll be abused, for example by employers.
madam speaker, if we really want to be the beat of the times in the 21st century, we must not live here and try to stop progress and operate on paper cards that my mother, who was a doctor, used very well. i think that sharing data will help the development, and it will help the health of patients. it will also help in a number of situations that have been mentioned here, and i think that message is a good direction. commissioner, the newsmen here have done a tremendous amount of work and i want to thank them for that. i don't think every thing we do here is automatically abused or exploitable. i think we will do our best again, as we have done in other areas, to make this regulation serve the citizens of the european union, to make them live better here.
madam president, information about your health is obviously some of the most sensitive information that there is. it should be yours to guard and share as you choose. it’s your family history. it’s your weaknesses. it’s your strengths. and it needs to be treated with care and respect. if you agree to share that data, then that’s grand. but the commission’s proposal is to forcibly enrol all of us into a digital system that will collect, share and manage our health information, whether we agree to it or not. dress it up the way you like; that’s the commission’s proposal. big tech, big pharma, health insurance companies, they’ll all be given free rein to the most painfully sensitive information about our lives for their own profit, with or without our consent. it’s offered on a plate. as colleagues have said, doctors can’t opt out. for me, this is lunacy. it’s a laser-focused strategy to make the rich richer while making public health poorer. a lot of european citizens don’t want it; a lot of doctors don’t want it. if you want clarity, it’s very obvious from listening to this debate that you’ve got to vote for the amendments that have been tabled.
madam president, article 7 of the regulation will create a legal obligation for doctors to upload a summary of each patient’s treatment to the new data space. there is no provision in the regulation for objections to this rule or a right to object, even when it comes to especially sensitive diseases or therapies. patients would be able to restrict access to their health records, but not to creation of these records. patients will also have to actively object to prevent healthcare providers and industry from using their data, otherwise their data will be automatically shared. they will have massive ramifications for medical confidentiality. in relation to the secondary use of the data: firstly, the legal basis for the secondary use is not clearly defined, and the purposes for which such secondary processing is permitted is not specific enough. secondly, the range of categories of health data that can be shared is too broad. reliable data sets can, of course, be an extremely useful tool for researchers, but this cannot come at the expense of fundamental rights.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, dear commissioners, there is a bitter irony – it will have escaped nobody’s attention – in the timing of this defence of democracy package, because it coincides exactly with the upcoming decision by the european commission and the european council to pay their bribes to the european kleptocrat-in-chief, viktor orbán. in addition, the european commission in this package introduces what i would call the european ‘lex orbán’, labelling ngos as potential foreign agents. funny, isn’t that? because in reality the only foreign agent here is orbán himself, putin’s poodle, the trojan horse. commissioner, i heard you say, and i agree with you, that you consider that the abuse of spyware is unacceptable in a democracy. then i ask you: why does the commission refuse, flatly refuse, to act? finally, if the commission wants to defend democracy, it should lead by example and finally itself comply with the transparency laws. this week, it became clear that the majority of europeans staunchly supports european integration. but they’re all worried about european democracy. this plan is not going to fix it – action will.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals for a new directive on the protection of the environment. in a democracy, only the people are sovereign. he alone chooses his political destiny, directly or through the representatives he has elected. there's nothing above him. but the european union is anything but democratic. i would remind you that it is led by commissioners who are not elected but who are appointed, who believe that their ideological principles must be above the decision of the peoples and that the sovereignty of the nations must be bowed to brussels. the best proof of this is last month's report on the revision of the treaties on the european constitution, a real european coup d'état that tramples on the results of the 2005 referendums, referendums that you betrayed. it is therefore extremely worrying that the european union is now taking over democracy and is beginning to set the criteria for what the sovereign people have the right to say, do or not do, and which parties will or will not have the right to exist according to their ideological orientation. it is particularly worrying when you accuse the slovak president, who is elected precisely by democracy, of his foreign policy not being in line with yours. it is also worrying when you plan to vote next january on a text censoring opinions and feelings under the absolutely orwellian and totalitarian term of hate crimes. the european union does not tolerate any freedom, no nuance and even considers non-alignment on its policy a crime. democracy is a people's and its own affair. no one, and especially not the european union, has to limit their choices or censor certain opinions. when the people speak, they must be able to speak freely.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, time and again we’re asked to believe that the eu is a bastion of democracy in the face of overwhelming evidence to the contrary. rather, it holds democracy in contempt. when citizens elect the wrong government, like in greece, the gloves come off in brussels, and that government is crushed. when citizens vote the wrong way in a referendum in ireland, they’re made to vote again. and after denouncing foreign agents laws abroad, now the commission wants one here at home. we have a defence of democracy package that has 200 ngos ringing alarm bells because of the threat it poses to civil society. and the crowning irony of this is that this package is from the commission of ursula von der leyen – a person elevated to power without a single vote from the citizens, who has spent the last two months swooping in and overriding the foreign policies of elected governments, all to cheerlead a brutal apartheid regime that she calls a vibrant democracy as it pulverises a city of children. well my god, with defenders of democracy like that, i think i speak for many, many citizens of europe when i say nein danke – no thanks, frau genocide.
your honor, the disinformation industry has long since taken off the gloves. we're probably all aware that the dark web pays for disinformation, and they're most interested, of course, in elections. elections that are just as close to us and i think our defense of democracy at this moment is becoming a matter of urgency. we've defined the challenges of our time. however, we must be aware that these challenges are increasing. we've seen hackers attack the pages of the european parliament, various hybrid threats. so issues like protecting critical infrastructure, media, online networks, information security, energy security and closing legal loopholes are being used by actors who exploit those loopholes in our security systems. that's of the utmost importance. the package we've proposed is not perfect, but it's good, on the way to defending ourselves against these very influences. i stress the importance of this package and the need to be involved in its implementation for another reason, because we also need to address the issues of the many former european officials working for hostile foreign entities and foreign funding of political or civil society campaigns in the european union.
madam president, honourable commissioner, honourable colleagues, we are discussing a very important package to protect democracy. nothing is more important. on december 10th, we celebrated human rights, and without democracy, we cannot protect human rights. but do we have any protection? shouldn't we first fix the things that don't work now, because we have, as we've said before, cyber attacks, citizen insecurity, street attacks on citizens? i think, commissioner, that we must first correct the democratic system and then protect it, because i see citizens now in the european union, not just in my own country, and i receive letters from all the member states about how justice still does not work, how children are taken and institutionalized and for years it is considered that there were no arguments. so the suggestion is yes, we should have a package to protect democracy, but first let's define it very well and we can make sure that everyone follows the same rules.
madam president, commissioners and colleagues, i think, as we all know, we are living through a democratic recession. according to freedom house, less than 7% of people live in full democracies across the world, which is an astonishing figure in 2023. and 2024 is a crossroads, with 4 billion people entitled to vote in elections, and that will be a record. as both commissioners pointed out, there is no single solution to the erosion of our democratic standards. my own country, ireland, is considered one of the strongest democracies in the world. however, we have seen recent outbreaks of violence on our streets, fuelled by disinformation. the violence i’m referring to triggered the first ever member state alert to the commission under the digital services act, and therefore, the digital services act will play a critical role in bolstering our democracy in 2024. the second area is journalism. all of the great investigations that have taken place recently – whether it’s the pandora papers, the panama papers, the cyprus files – they’ve all come from long form journalism, from investigations that are very expensive. we need to support our journalism to support our democracy.
madam president, when georgia announced the foreign agents law that would compel ngos to disclose foreign funding, high representative borrell was quick to condemn, stating that this law is incompatible with eu values and standards. conversely, when commissioner von der leyen announced a similar law with her defence of democracy package, it was because the law was essential to defend the same eu values. the lesson being: eu exceptionalism is central to that value system. also exceptional is the concept of democracy von der leyen and others hold dear. we’re in a parliament that cannot initiate legislation, is crawling with lobbyists and corruption scandals, and is wholly dominated by a right-wing majority in thrall to us and nato, militarism, war and the interests of western financial capital above those of the people of europe who elected them. the fact that the eu considers the genocidal settler colonial apartheid state of israel a like-minded partner and a bastion of democracy, tells you precisely how meaningless the concept of democracy is in the eu today. yez haven’t a leg to stand on.
mr president, mr borrell! yes, this war must end. what began with the unspeakable massacres of hamas on october 7 has now turned into a brutal military retaliation by the netanyahu government. this is not helping the victims of terrorism or the hostages and their families still held hostage. but those who operate and think only militarily like the netanyahu government are not contributing to deradicalisation. we call for a serious commitment to a lasting peaceful solution to an internationally secure transitional process. the eu is also obliged to do this. but unilateral solidarity is wrong here. we are in solidarity with the people of israel and palestine. between the jordan river and the mediterranean sea, two peoples live, and both have the right to live there in security and equality. we must strengthen those who, on this basis, are fighting together for a peaceful solution.
mr president, high representative, two months after the despicable terrorist attack by hamas, we still have 128 israeli people held hostage by this terrorist organisation, among them women, elderly and children. every second is one second too long for their loved ones, who are in terrible anxiety for their safety and well-being. hamas and like-minded terrorist organisations hold civilians in front of the world’s public, but they also hold fellow palestinians as human shields in perpetual attack on israeli territory. i sympathise with israel and its people, including governments whose citizens are being held captive, in their joint endeavour to bring back the hostages, and put an end to this source of evil that nourished and incited the heinous crimes committed on that day that will stay forever in our memories. i call on palestinian politicians to spare their people from being sacrificed, including their youth, indoctrinated with the ideology of hatred. the middle east and palestinians need at this moment leaders who put peace and future above the ideology of hatred, and release civilians.
mr president, high representative, dear colleagues, the title of this debate says it all. after two months of military conflicts and thousands of innocent civilian victims, we need to continue investing all our efforts to achieve a humanitarian ceasefire and facilitate the release of all hostages. we witnessed that pauses are possible as well as the hostage exchanges, and our aim should be to support negotiations so that these processes continue as long as innocent civilians are being held hostage. there are multiple interpretations of the conflict, some short-sighted, focusing only on the past two months. it goes without saying that we were rightfully condemning those atrocities without excuses. on the opposite side, others go centuries back on why this happened. but no one can justify such killings, especially of women and children. there are too many interpretations of who is right and who did wrong looking into the past. we cannot lose time trying to resolve historical riddles. looking instead into the future, one fact is sure: the latest events should reinvigorate the two-state solution talks as the only possibility for peaceful coexistence of both peoples. unfortunately, the contradictory positions within the european union institutions and member states does not help. one way or another, following the formal revision of its assistance, the european union must continue its humanitarian efforts to facilitate an exit strategy from this situation. but we need to move also beyond the role of payer and act as an active mediator in these conflicts. hopefully, this week’s council meeting will be a new opportunity to step in the right direction.
mr president, hr/vp, colleagues, i will try to follow your advice, josep borrell, and talk without emotions. there’s a lot that i would criticise or do criticise about the way in which the netanyahu government conducts this self-defence against hamas, but i think it is not right to put so much of the blame just one-sidedly on israel. you said, and i quote you, ‘israel refuses a political solution’. now, i have two questions there. number one: do you have an idea of how to solve the issue of hamas terror politically? second: has hamas offered a political solution? why just put the blame on israel? then people have said here israel is sowing the seed of hate. somebody else said terror is now spreading in gaza. has that terror not come from gaza? let’s not talk as if all the blame could put on israel. i think that will not make us a partner in solutions.
mr president, high representative borrell, netanyahu’s army is bombing civilians with impunity. meanwhile, president von der leyen is silent. europe has failed to show leadership. however, it’s not too late. the eu must take action to ensure a lasting ceasefire now. the eu-israel trade agreement must be suspended. violent west bank settlers should be sanctioned. humanitarian aid must enter gaza unhindered. europe must attend or host a peace conference with palestinian statehood on the table. without question, i condemn the abhorrent actions of hamas, and of course all hostages must be released immediately. but with tens of thousands of innocent civilians dead – children, academics, journalists – so many injured, so many lives destroyed, there is no time to lose in preparing for peace. the first step must be a ceasefire now.
mr president, a chairde, in october, the irish parliament became one of the first in the world to demand a ceasefire. that vote sent an important signal to the international community: it told the world that the people of ireland are on the side of peace and against violence. standing with the oppressed, not the oppressor. and it sent a signal that other parliaments should have followed: the assault being committed against the people of gaza is incomparable to anything we have seen in recent times. we are seeing war crimes being televised in front of our eyes – blatant disregard of international humanitarian law. it is time the european parliament shouted ‘stop!’ we need an immediate ceasefire now. we need the immediate release of all hostages now. we need the international community to intervene and bring all to the negotiating table. we need to sit down for real and meaningful talks that can deliver a two-state solution built on peace and trust. only then can there be a just and durable peace in the region with a free and sovereign palestine.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, blood, terror and chaos continue to play a major role in gaza, israel and the west bank. we need an immediate ceasefire! more than 18,000 victims in gaza, 137 people still hostage to hamas, hospitals collapsing everywhere. 85 percent of gaza's population, 1.9 million people, are displaced and the city of rafah, on the border with egypt, is a huge refugee camp. uncertainty prevails, a clear commitment to a way out is missing. the us veto of the un security council was a mistake: the european union has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. high representative borrell, we cannot leave gaza to hamas and we cannot leave its inhabitants without land. as you have said, the time has come to move from words to deeds. europe is playing an important role, but it must play an even greater role in bringing the two-people two-state solution to the fore with a credible plan.
mr president, to condemn the attacks on 7 october by hamas as a result of the latest and most serious crisis in gaza and the west bank in recent years, we must also reject israel's illegal response to their repression. the international criminal court must therefore, by law, activate its investigation machinery as quickly as in ukraine to clear liability for actions that are clearly war crimes. that is why, politically speaking, we must defend the united nations resolutions and the two-state solution. that is why, from an ethical and moral standpoint, we must demand an immediate ceasefire and the release of all hostages. and defend a recipe for peace and a word to stop the climb. it is a matter of recognizing, rejecting and renouncing barbarism. just stop using the other's cruelty to justify your own. this is how the universal declaration of human rights was drafted, which celebrated 75 years this week.
mr president, if i have to die, i want you to live to tell my story. if i have to die, let it be a story. hell on earth is in the gaza strip. this human crisis is unsustainable. the reality is that israel's genocide in gaza is state terrorism. europe must annul, commissioner borrell, the agreements with israel and implement the arms embargo. israel must be sanctioned for this war. what a hypocrite! the european parliament has not devoted a single minute of silence to the victims of palestine and to the international victims in gaza. not a minute of silence. to prevent access to water, to destroy hospitals, food and electricity is against international law. international law has died in the gaza strip. we must call for an immediate ceasefire. we must call for a ceasefire and stop the war in gaza.
mr president, this debate calls on hamas to release all hostages. what about israel, who have been locking up palestinians like nobody’s business since 7 october? israel holds over 7 000 political prisoners, 2 000 of which are held in administrative detention without a time limit, without trial, and without committing an offence. they are hostages. the israelis must also release all palestinians held hostage in administrative detention. the us veto at the united nations security council made it perfectly clear that they don’t care how many war crimes they participate in. there will also be no ceasefire until their geostrategic objectives are achieved, namely the india-middle east-europe economic corridor that will enter the mediterranean through northern gaza. the us effort to counter china’s belt and road has been inaugurated and christened in the blood of palestinian children. as for the two-state solution, it is dead, it is a fig leaf for doing nothing and letting israel’s terrorist apartheid state continue doing as they do, as we facilitated for years. only one state with full human rights and equal rights for palestinians and israelis will be compatible with international law. we need a permanent ceasefire, not a humanitarian... (the president cut off the speaker) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question)
blue-card answer. – you’re calling israel a democratic state? let me tell you something, right: democratic states don’t behave like an apartheid state. they don’t commit collective punishment. they do not bomb hospitals, refugee camps and people’s homes. they don’t commit genocide. israel is not a democratic state. stop telling that lie. jews all over the world are horrified at the zionist state of israel at the moment and the jews all over the world are gathering... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, high representative, dear colleagues, i must admit i am, and for a politician it’s strange, but i don’t know what to say anymore. with everything we are seeing. gazans being told to go south, but even on the way going south, being bombed. people were told a couple of days ago to go west to a peaceful stretch of land at the sea. where are they safe? how many times have governments from the us to the eu governments put on a critical, serious face, saying it all has to happen within the limits of international law? but who will be saying that it’s not? it’s not! if only for the excessive number of children being killed, if only for the humanitarian catastrophe. and let us remind that the people who were killed on 7 october will not come back. they will not come back. and it was a terrible attack. but this will not make israel safer. this is not bringing the release of the remaining hostages closer. this is growing yet another generation without a future and without perspective. we need a ceasefire. we need to restart the peace process.
mr. speaker, what is this? last week i took part in the european parliament's mission to israel and palestine. the visit to the kibbutz kfar aza made clear how israeli civilians were indiscriminately and brutally affected by hamas terrorist attacks. we demand that hamas immediately release all hostages. we met with families of those who still have children, siblings or partners kidnapped. these are stories i'll always carry with me. from the kibbutz, it was only a few kilometers to gaza. we could clearly see the thick smoke and hear israel's bombing. israel has the right to defend itself in accordance with international law, but it also has an obligation to ensure the protection of civilian life. now over 18,000 palestinians have been killed and nearly 50,000 wounded, many children and youth. carl skau, deputy director of the un food programme, says that nine out of ten people in gaza cannot eat every day and that half the population is starving. the emergency response is to be reached and then a ceasefire is required. a two-state solution is also the only realistic solution to a conflict that has been going on for far too long.
mr president, (start of speech off mic) ... an immediate ceasefire and we need hostage release. but let us be very clear: the root cause of this is the fact that the palestinians do not have their own homeland. we have had the madrid conference of 1991, the oslo accords, camp david in 2000, and yet we have the continual flouting of international law by israel. mr borrell, we have consistently called for the need to ensure that international law is upheld. and long before the brutality of 7 october by hamas, israel was systematically dismantling what was left of the west bank, and it has continually done so. and we have done nothing as a union or as member states that make up this union to hold israel, which professes to be a democratic state, to account in international law. long before the slaughter of the israelis by hamas, they had been flouting international law and systematically dismantling the west bank. and we have shamefully sat idly by while that is happening. so we need a two-state solution. but this time round, we need to ensure that we uphold our side of the agreement.
mr president, i think it would be really prudent for everybody here to read the un genocide convention of 1948 and to reflect on words and actions of recent weeks. all of the essential elements of the crime of genocide, as legally defined there, are present in what israel is doing in gaza. it is normally difficult to show intent, but not this time. open declarations of genocidal intent every day from the top of israel’s government, open because they know they’re protected by the us and europe. so again, to those who say israel has a right to defend itself, i urge you, read the genocide convention and maybe have a chat with your lawyer because you could be complicit in international war crimes. it’s not complicated, for peace in the region, the zionist apartheid state of israel must be dismantled. that is now understood by a majority of the world’s population, including substantial sections of jews. no justice, no peace.
mr president, you want to frame china as a threat to our economic security, yet the us and nato have just crippled our economy: they stoked the conflict in ukraine, supported maidan and fuelled the donbass war since 2014. stoltenberg, the nato boss, came into our committee and boasted about provoking russia by ignoring their plea for a neutral ukraine, and it was either the us or ukraine that seem to have blown up nord stream 2, but we don’t seem to be interested. the war has crippled germany, triggering an eu-wide recession, but the us is laughing all the way to the bank: it has supplanted russian gas, its arms industry has made a killing flooding europe with weapons and us firms now own vast tracts of ukrainian land. from their safety across the ocean, the us are now stoking a wider regional conflict in the middle east. the us is the number one threat to our economic security.
mr president, the economic security strategy, presented last june by the high representative aims, in its own words, to protect the eu’s interests against the militarisation of economic ties and to find the right balance between the openness that the eu wishes to maintain and the protection of our values and interests. let’s be clear about it: the only values we are interested in protecting are exactly our interests. and even though the text makes no mention of china, the strategy is a deliberate choice to align the eu even more closely to the united states’ all out technological conflict in order to hinder china’s fast growing technology sector. the strategy presents four technologies and the risks to be assessed and does not exclude protective measures. the weaponisation of knowledge, scientific research and technological advances is a real threat to the major challenges facing us – climate change, new health crisis and digitalisation require a different type of cooperative approach. the approach in this document appears that europe is more of a playground than a player.
mr president, mr commissioner, the russian aggression is of course the worst loss of human life, the suffering of people, but the pollution of the environment, the destruction of water resources, the destruction of soil, it is a loss not only for this generation but also for future generations. and russia needs to know that these losses will be counted and that russia will pay for them. the destruction of kachovka dam, it's just the visible tip of the iceberg that caused almost a humanitarian disaster in the area, a lack of drinking water, the destruction of huge hectares of land. but i want to stress that the european parliament has called for a register of these damages and the council has already created that register. i think this is the right way to set up an international compensation mechanism. russia must know that it will pay for these damages.
mr president, nearly two years into the ukraine war and the slogans are sounding hollow: europe’s cheerleaders have moved on to pastures new, and the predictions of the anti-war voices, viciously demonised, are now coming to pass. we’ve gone from ‘as long as it takes’ to ‘long enough’: the western betrayal that was always coming is now in progress, and ukraine is being pushed to consider peace terms much worse than what was possible in april 2022, when it was forced to fight on by its friends in nato. tens of thousands of dead who did not have to die. tracts of land that could have been saved that are now occupied. devastating environmental consequences: a 12-month interim assessment calculated emissions equivalent to the total annual greenhouse gas output of belgium, and that is before you look at fracked gas imports, energy costs by the fossil fuel companies and nord stream 2 – a calamity from start to finish. another clue of how bad european leaders are, happy to let things carry on as long as someone else’s pain and other people’s children are dying.
mr president, it is difficult to take your concern for the environmental consequences of the war in ukraine seriously. there’s only a handful of anti-war people in this room. 80 % of you voted down our amendments calling for increased diplomacy and efforts to bring about peace in ukraine. how can the same people who voted to pour tens of billions in arms into keeping a nato proxy war going, now pretend to care about the environmental consequences? did you care about the environmental impact of the wars of yugoslavia, afghanistan, iraq, libya, yemen or even gaza today? do you care about the environmental impact of the brutal sanctions regimes in place against venezuela, syria, iran, zimbabwe, yemen? whatever about the environment? you don’t even care about the hundreds of thousands of preventable deaths western sanctions have caused in these countries. show me the campaign to bring accountability for the environmental crimes of nato. and maybe we’ll take you serious. people that care about the environment don’t promote war. the greens should cop onto that one.
mr president, the us-eu relationship is the most enduring relationship in modern history in terms of shared values, politically, economically and even culturally at this stage. and of course there’s going to be challenges from time to time. i do very much welcome the trade and technology council, for example, that will allow discussions around issues of common interest, but also at times when we are competitive in the areas of global trade, technology issues as well. so while we have that special relationship, it is clearly important that we have a vehicle in place to discuss challenges that from time to time will crop up. on the issue of global trade i certainly believe that we need a rules-based order, and we need to have international organisations to oversee those rules. so while america is a partner, at times we also have to say that if you are in a rules-based order and they are rules, well then they must be adhered to, and you must accept the adjudication of those organisations that oversee it internationally. i’d also like to see europe and the united states assert itself in a way to discuss and embrace our discussions with china, rather than always being adversarial, i think, longer term, and i welcome those discussions in recent times between the united states and china. but we must do more in europe as well.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, commissioner, the rising cost of living is affecting everyone, with people spending more of their income on basic living expenses such as housing, food and utilities. however, it is the younger generation who are more affected than most as they balance part-time jobs with lower wages, instability in these roles, and the struggle to find decent housing solutions relative to their work, study and circumstance. in many european cities, particularly capital cities and major urban areas, housing costs have surged, making it impossible for younger generations to afford homes. a record number are living at home with their parents with a sense of hopelessness. and how could they not feel hopeless when the average house price in berlin is over eur 700 000, paris showing over eur 1 million, and dublin with a starting sale price of eur 600 000. since the financial crash, we’ve seen a shortage of construction workers. we have lost generations of apprentices who were forced to emigrate for work. even now, we have significant delays and bureaucratic red tape in planning permissions, all leading to a slower pace of construction. these factors have contributed to the insufficient supply of homes in ireland and across the eu. periods of underinvestment in housing and the subsequent increase in demand due to population increases have exposed the need for more investment in the construction of new homes, revamping of derelict buildings and development zones that have not been built on for over a decade. this is a crisis and the eu must respond. the eu has supported initiatives as outlined by the commissioner, like the affordable housing, energy efficiency and urban development and more is needed, specifically targeting our young people. creating more affordable housing options is of utmost importance and we need a continued eu targeted strategy that enhances education and skills to develop a more skilled workforce, increase funding for affordable housing, continue with programmes like we have in ireland for first-time buyers, even though opposition wants to cut it, and promote private sector investment in construction. i call on all of us, as a collective, to develop tangible solutions in europe’s housing crisis. a home is more than a shelter. it is security.
mr president, commissioner schmit, thank you. there is a locked-out generation in europe. young people in dublin and all around the eu have been at the sharp end of the housing and cost of living crises. they’re struggling with rising rents and lack of rental accommodation. many are forced to live with their parents, delaying their independent adult life and affecting mental health and wellbeing. as wage increases fail to match inflation, their starting salaries must go further than ever before. there are european solutions out there new laws on transparency in the short-term rental sector, on minimum wages and solidarity taxes on fossil profits will help. now, though, we must use european funds to increase the provision of social housing and guarantee housing as a right. expand the windfall tax to target profiteering that is driving rent increases, and deliver an eu renovation fund to reduce energy bills. let’s provide a healthy, hopeful future for young people all over europe.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. they had to go into high debt to get a degree. they have to do internships after internships, find jobs. and those internships are usually unpaid. and the jobs they get are often part-time, part-time, or very uncertain. and then when they finally want to leave their parents, they're not gonna find a suitable home anywhere. we're leaving a whole generation behind. a generation that grew up during the 2008 crisis and now has to build their lives during and after the coronavirus crisis. and for the first time in decades, it's uncertain whether children will get better than their parents. we need to invest in our younger generations. wages, starting with the minimum wage, should be raised. we must put an end to uncertain contracts and to this endless cycle of unpaid internships. and we just have to make housing a public service. if we don't invest in our young people, if we don't make sure they get a good start, we're going to lose them forever. and with them the support for the european project.
mr president, commissioner, the eu’s combined gdp for 2023 stood at over eur 18 trillion. and yet at the same time, home ownership for those aged between 25 and 34 within the european union stands at its lowest percentage since the establishment of the single market. how can the eu be awash with money when, at the same time, home ownership and affordable housing for young people living within the union is now almost a pipe dream? in ireland, supply of housing has been a disaster. not only is homeownership unattainable, renting is not even an option for many young people either, as successive governments have allowed the rental market to dictate the price. between 2010 and 2021, rents in ireland increased by 68 %. at the same period in europe, it was 16 %. we’ve had right wing fianna fáil and fine gael governments for 102 years since we got rid of the brits and they fell in love with deregulation and privatisation a long time ago, and sadly they have been a disaster around everything to do with housing. they have no interest in building social housing, no interest in building affordable housing. they’re tied to the markets and the people have been let go to hell.
mr president, commissioner, it is quite a sad debate this evening, isn’t it? ‘parenthood’, as defined by the oxford dictionary, is the state of being a parent and the responsibilities involved. ironic, isn’t it? as, within the european union, this definition only applies to some, not all. it’s a hard one to fathom, as you heard from my colleagues, that in 2023, blended families, those who adopt, those who go through altruistic surrogacy, and our rainbow families have limited to no protection nationally. i welcome the parenthood certificate, as it clarifies the rights as a parent and a family across the eu, while ensuring that children do not lose the protection of their parents. and our children deserve this protection. just yesterday, the irish government announced legislation that will approve and recognise surrogacy arrangements. this means the parent or parents who have cared for and nurture their children, yet have not been legally recognised as parents, will finally be recognised as such. i commend the work done on the certificate, as it ensures an additional step forward for equality but we need to recognise national legislation and this eu certificate must also recognise lgbti+ families. after tomorrow’s parliament vote on this file, the final decision on this legislation will be taken by member states, as family law sadly falls under national powers. and so, i plead with the commission and all member states to ensure that their national laws and policy reflects and supports all families, not just some. i say this in honour of baby sarah.
on behalf of the ecr group. the president! - what? i can only agree with my colleagues. i have some differences with mrs. neumann. i might agree on some points, but i probably won't. but first of all, i would like to agree with the commissioner, with what you said at the beginning. it's just a mysterious question, an intriguing question. why? why? if we're in agreement here in parliament, almost all political groups. the commissioner has been talking about this for months. the commission announces that this edip programme will be announced. well, we're actually talking about the ghost fund after all these months. it's all right. this publication date is being postponed. we don't know the details of this program. we don't know what stage the prep work is at. here, my colleagues and i, of course, were dealing with edirp and asap. it was all software that was blowing holes. well, we've been waiting for this long-term european response to the lack of defense funding from most countries. now, there are only a few months left until the end of this parliament's term. if the commission announces edip early next year, the question is, will we be able to take it seriously? we are now hearing that the commission will only propose a pilot version of the edip in 20252027. pilot projects like this usually end. they're being transferred, saved to target programs. we need time for normal legislative work. we also recently heard that this defence investment programme is becoming a european strategy for the defence industry, or something broader. but it's been talked about since october. so, commissioner, i have one question. you're gonna have to talk to us seriously. what are the reasons for the delay? or is it politics?
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, well surprise, surprise, more money for militarism! we already have a european defence fund – eur 8 billion in free money doled out to arms companies to research and develop new ways of killing people. we are already topping that up by eur 10 billion with the step programme, we already have asap, where we hand out eur 500 million to arms companies to make shells and missiles, and we already have edirpa – eur 300 million more in pocket money for member states to shop for weapons. now the move is on to take them all, to ramp them up, pile in more cash and make them permanent, with the european defence industry package. citizens need to understand that the war hawks are taking over. they’re hoovering up astronomical sums of public money that could make life better and investing it instead in war. they’re transforming the eu into a massive machine for churning out bullets and bombs – a europe in the shadow of war where people go hungry, go homeless, go without heating while the merchants of death swallow our future. enough already. another europe is not only possible, but absolutely necessary!
i would like to make three comments on this important subject. first, the russian criminal invasion of ukraine shows us that the union must do much more for the defence industry than it has done before and must do so more in coordination with the member states. second, it is clear that our defence capability depends on a viable defence industry that must be able to respond to our changing immediate but also long-term needs related to defending our values and our prosperity. third, financial support for the defence sector has been under-sized in europe over the long term, including access by businesses to both public and private capital. small and medium-sized enterprises in particular suffer the most. i therefore stress the need to publish the draft regulations on the european defence investment programme as soon as possible, as well as strategies in the field of the european defence industry, in such a way that smes are the focus of both initiatives. as the defence industry has long been built on the foundation of mainly large companies, i consider the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the defence strategy and defence industry to be key not only in terms of faster meeting our defence needs but above all in terms of the innovation and competitiveness of the entire defence industry.
madam president, more public money for the arms industry – will the billions of euros we give to these warmongers ever be enough? not according to jan pie, secretary-general of the aerospace and defence industries association of europe. after the eur 300 million edirpa handout in october, jan doubted whether it would make a tangible difference. he went on to demand that the european defence investment programme must be more ambitious. you would swear we work for these parasites. and given the astronomical sums you have handed over to the arms industry since the catastrophic nato-proxy war in ukraine, you’d be forgiven for thinking there’s something fishy going on. the european ombudsman has even opened an inquiry into how the european commission ensures external experts, who help it evaluate the european defence fund project proposals, do not have conflicts of interest. you have blown the eu budget on the unwinnable war in ukraine, and now you want another billion for these merchants of debt. it’s pretty obvious whose interest you represent.
in the name of the left faction. the commission has already taken a number of steps. all is well, my colleagues, but enough is enough. the latest frontex scandal, and it's from these days: a new lighthouse investigation shows how the agency and maltese authorities are working together with warlord chalifa haftar's wagner group-backed war criminal militia that is capturing refugees in the mediterranean. these refugees end up in libyan prisons, which the pope has already called hell on earth. the frontex agency has become an accomplice to a brutal group of human traffickers whose daily business is rape, slavery and torture in libya. and to make it even clearer, frontex doesn't care what we talk about today or what we have found or what resolution we decide on. it's really, really everything said. the agency had its chance. so stop it! abolish frontex!
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear indication of the importance of this report. on june 24, 2023, over 500 people were killed in front of the greek coast guard, in front of frontex. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission. the commission and the council have hesitated, but we, the european parliament, have taken decisive action, we have launched investigations and we have a very clear objective: borders and especially external borders are not to be understood as a law-free space. human rights and human life must be protected. the european parliament has also been asked to take a decision on the draft directive. but that would be our obligation to all. the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. let's end pushbacks, make transparency, make accountability, and secure the basic right to escape!
mr president, mr secretary of state, mr commissioner, since its creation, the socialist group has always supported the development of the work of the frontex agency, while ensuring full respect for fundamental rights. in this context, we support the creation of the control group in 2021 to structure the dialogue and closely monitor the agency's activities and functioning. this has paid off with the implementation of the recommendations we made, in particular with the recruitment of 46 fundamental rights observers and increased transparency in decision-making. we have to keep going that way. the commission has already decided to take the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used to the same extent as those of the member states. i hope that with the adoption of the migration pact we will be on the right track, leaving aside solutions such as the way of the agreement with tunisia and achieving a european maritime rescue mechanism.
mr president, this christmas it seems there is no room at the inn for the meek, the hungry or the persecuted. the eu’s border force, frontex, has made sure of it. just this week we heard that frontex is working directly with militia in libya to keep refugees in the mediterranean out of europe and out of safety. with taxpayers’ funding, frontex is complicit in unthinkable violence. frontex’s role in these crimes is not new. it was clear when i was in lesbos earlier this year, where frontex was complicit in illegal pushbacks and the persecution of humanitarians like seán binder and sarah mardini. so while bombs fall not far from the little town of bethlehem this year, frontex has made sure that there is no room in the inn.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me reiterate a concept that remains our polar star and which president meloni clearly expressed at the dubai conference: the european union and the world need an ecological transition, not an ideological one. our idea is that if we want to be credible in the face of the environmental imbalance affecting future generations and if we want environmental sustainability that does not compromise the economic and social sphere, we cannot give up a technological neutrality approach that is free of radicalism and aims to strengthen markets. cop28 must be a turning point; we share reasonable and concrete policies and actions, such as implementing renewable energy generation capacity and increasing the overall rate of improvement in energy efficiency. the transition from fossil fuels, as set out in the recent resolution, must be accompanied, in our view, by an energy and climate plan focused on biofuels, nuclear and hydrogen. the model we suggest is the italian government's mattei plan, in which energy is one of the pillars of the development of the continent.
mr president, cop28 will be looked at from many different perspectives. while personally disappointed not to be there, it sets a clear direction for a sustainable future. it’s the first time in the history of the 28cop summits that fossil-fuel reduction has been mentioned in the final agreement. yet, unfortunately, it falls short of explicitly mentioning the phasing out of oil, gas and coal. the whole agreement looked like it could collapse, but thankfully some improvements were made to the disappointing draft text that was initially circulated. the agreement signifies a substantial step forward for countries committed to addressing the climate crisis. in particular, it includes calls for the tripling of renewable energy capacity globally by 2030. there are many other positive aspects of the outcome. the conference reached landmark agreements and loss and damage, and saw an agreement to draft a post-2025 finance target ahead of cop29. the agreement will influence real world decisions made by investors, financial institutions, governments and private companies. finally, i would like to pay tribute to the leadership role played by the eu and particularly irish minister eamon ryan, who was one of the key negotiators on.
mr president, colleagues, global warming is accelerating at speed. the ocean heatwave in the atlantic this summer saw seawater temperatures five degrees hotter than usual. when i sailed into antarctica in the 1980s, the great glaciers were already receding. we knew climate change was coming, and the dinosaurs in the oil companies knew too. meanwhile, over in dubai, those same dinosaurs are keen to squeeze every last drop of oil out of this planet while they still can. they took the biggest titles at cop 28 and they let their buddies – in shell, bp, exxon and more – in the back door. the petrol-pushers are trying to convince us that they are environmentalists. well, colleagues, one thing is crystal clear: the end of fossil fuel age has come, and it’ll take the dinosaurs with it.
madam president, well, it’s a wrap: cop 28 has finally concluded with a fanfare and a celebration, and the news reports of an historic moment of a cop agreement that, for the first time, mentions fossil fuels. hooray. i mean, can we really celebrate this when, even with the newly submitted revised climate targets, we’re still on our way to a world of over three degrees? it is an utterly terrifying prospect. when you look at it, the cop is an exercise in international relations, and the eu’s influence depends on sincere dialogue and the pursuit of good relations with all states. to be effective, we have to be more diplomatic and less polarising. and it might be surprising for people outside of here to know that the eu’s relations with china in the field of climate change have been absolutely excellent cooperation, far better than the yo-yo approach of the us. throughout the year, and at cop, the eu and china work together even when they have divergent positions. we need to become a bridge-builder, not just in the area of climate change, but also in the area of peace and anti-war because you can’t protect the environment if you support war.
madam president, yes, we do need a full transition away from fossil fuels. we also need to remember what that sounds like to people who cannot heat their homes this winter. to people who have never had a full tank in their car. what we need is an energy transition that’s planned and fair. this doesn’t mean compromising on ambition. we could do things even quicker, but without taking control of the transition, we will not have the social acceptance. we need a decarbonised energy system that actually benefits ordinary people. with wind turbines going up, people need to see their energy bills go down. ireland, like the rest of europe, saw a drastic increase in energy bills last year because of the whims of our liberalised energy market. and next october, vat on electricity will go back up 13.5 %. we need to stop the price roller coaster and instead rapidly roll out energy infrastructure which local communities can see they’re benefiting.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, the commission is the guardian of the treaties. what's that supposed to mean? this means that the commission must ensure that all countries and institutions in the european union apply the same, but in particular apply european legislation. however, what do we do when the commission itself, which has this role, does not apply european legislation? what do we do when the commission itself does not implement a resolution of this european parliament passed by a large majority not ten years ago, not five years ago, but this year in july? what do we do when the commission, although it says it supports some principles, some very important principles, equality, non-discrimination, does not help enough countries that are left out, that are discriminated against? let's see how these things connect. we have a resolution here in the european parliament, for romania and bulgaria to enter the schengen area. this resolution doesn't just come from us here. this resolution was passed through a petition, through the will of our citizens, passed through the committee on petitions and reached a resolution in the european parliament. however, the european commission does not apply its provisions. what does this resolution say? not only should we, romania and bulgaria, enter the schengen area, but we also have a very important right: the right to compensation, because someone else is not applying european law as they should (in our case, austria), because someone is discriminating against us, because someone is abusing the law and we have that right to compensation against austria. it says that in our resolution, which was voted here in the european parliament, and it also says that the european commission has an obligation to calculate these compensations and to find ways for the affected countries, romania and bulgaria, to receive them. what do we do when the european commission says one thing and does another? if we allow this to continue, we are losing even european principles. it means that if the commission does not apply the rules, i don't see how it can ask others to do so.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr. chairman, cochut's a little bit of a mess, i hope he's okay with his thoughts on suicide. especially today, at the end of the day, every may says what he wants. it's like we're in hyde park, but that's not the point. the theme is how to improve the application of eu law. i'm here to address the commissioner immediately with a remark on her allegations. european union law is based on the treaties on the functioning of the european union and the commission has tasks under those treaties. no one can claim more rights than those granted under the treaties, and no one should think he has more rights. there are different ranks and hierarchies of legislative acts which impose the rights and obligations of the european commission, the european court of justice in luxembourg and the national courts and their various instances. so i ask you very much, don't try, don't imagine you're taking more rights than you have, and making the european courts, the european commission, a kind of ombudsman. to engage in tasks that are unusual to you, like protecting the imaginary rights of groups of people who imagine they have them and do everything else to hurt us in some way. i'm giving you an example of what's called tourism to the rainbow families who travel around different countries and try to provoke national laws. you have a legal duty, commissioner, and i hope you'll pay attention. maybe you're checking something i'm telling you? yeah, that's great. you have obligations that are given to you under the treaties and you must act within the treaties.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, as a member who has dedicated many years to the petitions committee i am aware of a significant issue eroding the foundations of the european union from within. when a petitioner alleges a breach of eu law, the commission often declines to act. according to the recent study requested by the petitions committee, in 96 % of petitions, further action was declined because the violations could be better addressed by national authorities. by this way, is the primary responsibility lying on the commission on guarding eu law is put on the shoulders of ordinary citizens, who often lack the time, money and legal expertise required to such texts. as a result, we have a dwindling number of petitions, and this decline does not signal an improvement. rather, it reflects a diminishing face to our liability to address their concerns. and i can see the example of this on petitions concerning national minorities in my country, latvia.
mr president, i think there is an urgent need to improve the enforcement of eu law, particularly in cases which involve a large amount of european citizens. since i started in this mandate, i’ve been working with a group of irish citizens who bought apartments in a complex in bulgaria, in sunset resort in pomorie, and have had an incredibly difficult time in getting their rights under european law vindicated. they’ve had illegal practices by the management company using its monopoly power to overcharge and disconnect them in terms of energy supplies, without any consumer protection – protection which is guaranteed to them in eu law that they would have a direct connection to the electricity and energy supply. these people have gone everywhere to have their rights under eu law vindicated. they’ve contacted the bulgarian authorities, the european authorities, initiated numerous legal proceedings in bulgaria against annual general meetings and so on – there’s even 20 cases now. there’s an urgent need. they were before the peti committee this year. the commission needs to take note and act to protect citizens.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, respect for eu law is clearly laid down in the treaty. the important thing is to look at the application and it is surprising, commissioner, to say that when there are individual petitions, we do not take them into account, because i believe that nobody should so we have the slogan nobody should be left behind. every citizen is important and i will give you one example: if there are individual petitions, for example from several member states, but on the same subject, such as kidnapping, that i cannot call it otherwise, of school children for some reason that has not yet been justified and for years families are fighting to recover their children, could not the european commission, the guardian of the treaties, the supreme right of the child, intervene? i think that confidence in the european institutions is lost when these petitions and, ultimately, european citizens' initiatives are the same way of acting by the commission and then citizens will no longer trust either the committee on petitions of parliament or the european commission. that's why i think every case is important and should be treated as such.
mr president, the right of petition in the european parliament is the oldest participatory mechanism in the eu. they are a method for citizens to engage directly in democracy on issues such as how the eu governs and enforces laws that affect their lives. as the majority of petitions concern eu law, and as the von der leyen commission is the enforcer of eu law, for the petition process to work for citizens, the commission needs to support it. unfortunately, like many of the positive measures that this parliament can take, petitions have been stifled and made obsolete by the commission, who view them as irrelevant. it excludes the majority of individual petitions with the blanket reasoning that they do not raise issues of wider principle. the commission also continuously passes the buck on petitions and enforcement, referring the questions back to member states and national governments. this defeats the purpose of allowing eu citizens to petition the european parliament. one of the goals of the lisbon treaty was to increase direct participation by eu citizens, with petitions being central to this goal. the commission has utterly failed to honour its side of the bargain in this regard.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i want to thank you for this important debate, as this is one of the busiest periods for the legislative machinery with an intense pace of trilogue negotiations. it is very pertinent to remind ourselves that law-making is only one side of the coin. we will only achieve the intended effects of our jointly agreed policies, if these policies are properly implemented. for people and businesses to enjoy the benefits of our common rules and to have their rights protected, eu law must be implemented and applied both fully and correctly everywhere in the eu. this is why the enforcement of eu law has always been and remains a priority for the commission. in recent years, the commission initiated infringement procedures to protect fundamental values, for instance on equality, rule of law, democracy and citizenship. all these examples show the commission’s determination and steadfastness in enforcing eu law. the enforcement approach taken by the commission works. we were able to close 1900 infringement cases in the last three years as member states achieved compliance. over 90 % of them were resolved before going to court, which means faster compliance than if litigation in court had been necessary, saving time and taxpayers money in the process. they explained earlier, the commission is implementing the findings of the stocktaking exercise, including on transparency. this will make it easier for the public to find existing infringement cases on specific topics, and to verify if there is any linked petition to ongoing investigations. the commission also intends to link the public infringement register with the parliament’s petition web portal.
the debate is closed.
the next item on the agenda is explanations of vote.
mr. chairman, i was convinced i voted against this report. this is one of the most important documents that this european union accepts. in this report, which completely replaces its meaning, which is hardly called protecting the rights of adopters and adoptees, there is in fact an open propaganda of the so-called rainbow families, homosexuals and others like them. there is no stronger, brighter, more visible, more flattering name change and propaganda. in this report, in this document, the word "mother" is mentioned three times, three times, while the word or definition "the person who gave birth to the child" is mentioned more than 16 times. this speaks for itself and shows very clearly the propaganda nature of the document. it again shows that parliament has been used as a platform for propaganda. dude, i don't know what, any other stuff like that that has nothing to do with the title that's written up there. this is an anti-family propaganda that cannot be tolerated.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because i think it’s a really important text that allows for the mutual recognition of judgements relating to parenthood. it simply states that if you are the parent in one member state, then you’re a parent in all member states. it puts the rights of the child first, which is as it should be, and it doesn’t change the substantive family law of member states. this is absolutely critical. it’s not acceptable that children could lose their parents, legally speaking, when they enter another member state in the european union. i’m reminded today of mandy kelly, an irish mother who today is before the petitions committee in the irish parliament because her egyptian husband abducted her two children in april 2022. she is seeking all during that time to have her parental rights vindicated, to have the rights of those children upheld and the court rulings in ireland upheld. we need a bilateral arrangement also with countries like egypt outside of the european union, but for now, parental rights within the eu must be protected.
mr president, i didn’t vote on the draft legislative resolution, although i was present in the vote. why? i am convinced that the legislation concerning cross-border situations deemed to fill legal gaps and create legal certainty for eu residents must resolve, first of all, the notion of eu citizenship. how can we speak about a european certificate of parenthood if we are not able to issue the european union passport to eu natives being not the citizens of any state? these people are about 250 000 in latvia and estonia. one recent case i dealt with, one latvian family – two parents and child – had to move urgently to spain due to sickness of the child, the child being a citizen when there is non-citizen parents, and they are deprived of the right to work, to provide situation to live in spain, since they don’t have eu-level passports and are not eligible to work. it’s a shame.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution for young researchers because scientists in all member states really need some form of support. for example, in bulgaria and other eastern european countries, support for young phd students is definitely not enough to enable them to have a quality of life that enables them to develop and work in science. not to mention how important this is for entrepreneurship, for businesses, for european countries to be competitive and to be able to respond to competition from countries outside the european continent such as the united states and china, for example. so i think, unlike many other resolutions that are being voted on here and are just scary, this is a step in the right direction and should encourage similar treatment of young researchers, young phd students, young scientists who produce surplus value products made in the eu by the member states of the european union.
mr president, there is a postgraduate research crisis in ireland. many postgrad researchers can no longer afford basic necessities such as food, rent, heating, due to their lack of funding and working status. now research and the title of this is young research. i mean, we have a secondary school curriculum in ireland and there’s absolutely no initiative around research. i mean, we need to teach young people to think clearly for themselves, and that requires given them the opportunity to research things for themselves. only a couple of days ago, a young girl from my own area in wexford contacted me, a 16 year old, and she was researching the us-china relationship and how important it was to the world. but she was looking into it, and she said that she was really shocked to find out that china hadn’t gone to war with any country in 44 years, whereas the us had been at war most of that time. and she said that china had managed to take over 800 million people out of poverty, while the us has stagnated and promoted inequality. very great initiative from the young girl.
mr president, i voted strongly against this resolution because it seeks to smuggle, destroy frontex and turn it from a service that must support the protection of the external borders to a service that must go looking for illegal immigrants, rescue them, facilitate the trafficking of far-left organisations, of left-wing ngos who deal with human trafficking, who seek to change the cultural, civic and any population of the european continent. the mission of frontex, as it was established, is to help member states at the external borders to defend themselves. and that's why countries like austria and the netherlands are opposed and talking about the schengen and want some kind of defense at their external borders. this is the job of frontex to protect the external borders from illegal migration. it's not frontex's job to be dealing with promoting illegal migration, promoting human trafficking and dealing with extreme propaganda and crazy, populist, left-wing bolshevik ideas, which unfortunately we see a lot of.
mr president, i abstained on this resolution because, while i appreciate that it certainly does have good points, it doesn’t go far enough on frontex. at this point, frontex is less of a border agency, much more like a mafia gang, a mafia gang working hand in glove with all the member states’ mafiosos, policing europe’s external borders. frontex is ignoring court of justice rulings, still working with the lithuanians, who are also ignoring those judgements, where complicity in violent attacks on migrants runs from top to bottom, where crimes are covered up, evidence is destroyed ,where its own fundamental rights officer is sidelined and stonewalled, where olaf found serious misconduct, failure of leadership and essentially corruption, and where the management board proposes a new executive director and covers up for the fact that he’s been investigated for misconduct. every step of the way, it’s shielded by the commission. that is why it does what it does. europe’s treatment of refugees is a crime against humanity. this lip service is fooling nobody.
mr president, if ever there was a single entity that symbolises the current state of the european union, it’s frontex, the european border and coastguard agency. frontex, currently the eu’s number one funded agency, personifies the direction the european union has taken since the von der leyen commission took over the reins in 2019. it’s an agency with a mission statement that includes being respectful to people, holding high ethical standards and respecting fundamental rights. but in reality it has done the opposite: it has actively engaged in pushback measures in the aegean sea for years, resulting in horrendous atrocities. the eu rightly acted quickly to provide protection and reception conditions to millions of ukrainians fleeing the war in 2021. contrast this decision with how the eu continues to utilise frontex to prevent those fleeing from countries like syria, afghanistan and libya. what’s the difference with these migrants? is it their skin colour? we should welcome people fleeing persecution without distinction and end the racism that we’re exposing.
mr president, i would have really liked to have voted in favour of this text, because for the first time that i can remember, the european parliament is rightfully condemning a right-wing coup attempt against a democratically elected leader in a latin american country. the guatemalan people made their choice earlier this year. they decided on change, and instead of accepting that, entrenched interests in the guatemalan state have fought the will of the people at every turn, using every means available to overturn a democratic election and cling to power. it’s an absolute disgrace. it has to stop, and it is very right that we recognise that. unfortunately, however, in an otherwise good resolution, there is, yet again, a call for eu sanctions. and for me, there has to be a conversation about the increasingly reflexive calls for sanctions in this body. it’s not possible to solve every problem in the world with coercion. we need to stop sanctioning at the drop of a hat. if it hadn’t been for this, i would have supported the motion. i had to abstain, but i really hope for an orderly, democratic transition in guatemala and for the rights of its wonderful people to be upheld.
mr preisdent, you know, the far-right forces in guatemala are certainly making fools of themselves when they can’t even get the european parliament on board. last year, the eu parliament supported the far right coup against president pedro castillo in peru and his replacement by the unelected dina boluarte, whose regime killed at least 57 protesters in a series of massacres. the parliament supported jeanine añez’s far-right coup against the democratically-elected socialist president morales in 2019, giving backing to two massacres, torture, political persecution, illegal detention and summary executions of those who took to the streets in rejection of the coup. the parliament supported the repeated coup attempts against venezuela and, for years, embarrassingly recognised the unelected, far-right us puppet guaido as president of venezuela. the list goes on. the colonial habits die hard. the eu parliament still views latin america as a site of unfettered capitalist exploitation and expropriation, and any leftist who stands in the way must go.
