in writing. more than a month after the death of cyclist davide rebellin, the investor, german truck driver wolfang rieke, is still at large in germany and the truck he was driving is not under seizure. rieke is in fact investigated by the prosecutor for road murder and failure to rescue, but, having returned to germany, since the crime of road murder does not exist, he is now in absolute freedom. the vicenza prosecutor's office also issued a european arrest warrant, which has still not been executed by the german authorities. where is justice for david? where is the europe that should guarantee security for all its citizens? freedom of movement is one of the union's main achievements, but this freedom must also be matched by certainty of punishment in all eu countries. this is why we need more harmonisation of road traffic offences in the european union, to ensure fair justice in any member state. we must ensure that a single area of freedom and movement is matched by a single area of justice and the certainty of punishment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the larvae and the locusts, the commission has given the green light to the introduction of powdered crickets on the european market. in the midst of the economic crisis caused by the pandemic and the russian invasion, europe's priority is to bring to the tables of european citizens insects from non-european countries such as vietnam, china and thailand, countries at the top of the food alert rankings. the marketing of insects raises specific health questions, which need to be answered by clarifying the production methods, origin and traceability of these products. europe, put your crickets down and support our agriculture and our farmers. the priority must be to safeguard the excellences of our territory, which are the expression of productive and cultural realities unique in the world. supporting our agriculture means helping the whole european economy and supporting competitiveness. bugs on my plate ? no, thank you. you eat it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today in italy, matteo messina denaro, a mafia boss, considered one of the most dangerous fugitives in the world, was arrested. it is good news, a victory of honest citizens, the judiciary and the law enforcement against the cursed cancer called mafia and against all those political and business forces that have had dealings with the mafia, so much so that we have seen some of their leading figures convicted for mafia. yet, on such an important day, we must ask how it is possible for a boss to remain a fugitive for 30 years after oppressing millions of sicilians. 30 years with no punishment. and how could he be free in a clinic in the centre of palermo like any other citizen? how is it possible, who covered this vicious criminal until this morning? why would you do that? and why, even after this arrest, for which the interceptions were fundamental, as for the discovery of the quatargate, in italy there are those who would like to limit them, why? ladies and gentlemen, it is time to step up the work of the european anti-mafia office and work together to defeat the mafia culture, the culture of extortion, corruption, inaction and opaque political links. the honest italians are doing their part, so is europe, so is this building, so is all of us.
i'm the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will be brief, taking the floor because there is no debate on the file, to thank the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent cooperation on the dossier on the international agreement between the european union and new zealand on the exchange of personal data between europol and the new zealand authorities responsible for combating serious crime and terrorism. as the european union and new zealand have often faced similar security problems for several years, we believe that cooperation in law enforcement in these key areas, as well as in the fight against corruption, drug trafficking, cybercrime and money laundering, can bring considerable benefits to both parties and is in the interest of the european union. this is an important agreement which is part of the process of other negotiations with third countries, and will enable us to increase the effectiveness of the prevention of terrorist attacks outside and especially within the european union, while ensuring adequate guarantees for privacy and the protection of personal data. that is why we call on you to vote in favour.
in the name of the id group. i would say that the committee on the internal market has done an important job, because we have included in the text many elements which rightly need to be taken into account in a parliament which has already done something useful and important with the committee on culture, because of course we are talking about the internal market of the union. we need equal rules for all, but in a market that is global and in which in the past, and the digital world is unfortunately an example of this, we have had some shortcomings. we do not have european champions in certain areas, but we do in the production of video games, and it is good that there is this in an area which concerns content which is also of important quality and which is beginning to give value also in terms of quality jobs, which especially concern so many young people. so clearly there are problems, however, affecting the most vulnerable consumers. you can intervene especially in that narrow boundary between gambling and gambling, which instead must be pleasure, even eliminating certain de-educational elements, such as the fact that, if you put money in, you may no longer need your ingenuity to move to the next level, but you can avoid difficulties. now, that's a moral aspect too. of course, we as legislators should not point fingers, because we should not even criminalize a business model. it's about balance. in this sense we must certainly fight addiction and also help the health authorities. there are already models of voluntary type. the commission, in my view, must strike the right balance to keep everything in the interests of consumers.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this text is a good starting point for the protection of consumers, especially the younger ones. the video games industry is growing rapidly and steadily in europe and has created almost a hundred thousand jobs on our continent. this growth must not be discouraged, but at the same time we cannot ignore the risks to our citizens, especially the most vulnerable, and i am referring to those who have become new and genuine addicts. we should not be afraid to mention the names of two video games: fortnite and fifa. these are titles with a low age target, often minors who are lured to spend money to be able to play. in both cases we are not talking about small and mediumsized enterprises, but about american giants. we can't keep reading about families who find themselves in huge debt caused by their children's spending, fooled by this kind of headlines that instill in consumers the idea of pay-to-win, that you have to spend more and more money to win. let us protect our small and mediumsized businesses, let us protect our citizens and let us not allow the giants of industry to ruin the lives of families. these must be our objectives.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the who is warning of a surge in respiratory infections, while europe is experiencing a worrying shortage of antibiotics and other essential medicines. we are too dependent on countries like china and india, which account for as much as 66% of our imports of active ingredients. the dependence on other countries in strategic sectors such as russian gas has already shown that in the end it is always the citizens who pay. so it's good to talk about these issues because they're vital, but it's important to keep the goal clear: we need to make ourselves as independent as possible in the pharmaceutical industry. we have to be ready. let's look at what's happening in china: 60,000 deaths since the beginning of december, according to government estimates. a number that is frightening and that we do not know how reliable it is, given the lack of transparency. health is a common good of all europeans. we need to make a serious effort to stimulate and support the production of the whole pharmaceutical chain in our countries, from the active ingredient to the final product. the health and lives of many citizens are at stake.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, milk + 14%, eggs + 17%, vegetables + 14%, bread and cereals + 14%, cheese + 12%: the commission has already decided to increase the amount of the aid to be granted to the dairy sector. these are just some of the increases in food prices in italy over the past year. what is the commission doing in europe? what's he doing? what are you doing? he looks like he's sleeping. you're too focused on criminalizing producers, farmers, ranchers, funding synthetic meat, approving new insects as the food of the future, supporting labels like nutriscore that penalize our food excellence, or introducing new ones, like the ones on cigarettes but on wine bottles. you are totally disconnected from reality and in this context you have also invented a new regulation on packaging which penalizes the recycling of products. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has considered the problem for the producers and whether he has considered that the cost will be passed on to the consumers, as is already the case from the figures i have given you?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our farmers are on the verge of collapse. i'll give you some figures on inflation in my country, italy: +170% for fertilisers, +90% for feed, +30% for diesel, up to +500% for electricity costs for irrigating the fields. so i think the issue is not just that one in three farms is at risk of closure, but i think the very survival of the cap is at risk. that is why i think that the proposal to bring forward its revision to next summer is wholly inadequate. so here's my request: i would ask you why you do not propose a package of proposals now, before it is too late, precisely to limit the impact of inflation and to deal with the devaluation of cap aid, which is in danger of burning 30% of its value, i.e. 85 billion euro. it is not a question of revising the budget, commissioner, as you have said, but this can be done without changing the current budget structure, using the new own resources deriving from the taxation of emission allowances. in the end, it is only a question of making this political decision.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there are more honest people than honest parties. the qatargate is writing one of the most embarrassing pages in the history of this parliament. i cannot hide my dismay at the attitude of the socialist group. an example for all of us is the candidacy, the alleged candidacy for vice-president left vacant by eva kaili by her colleague glucksmann. we're talking about the chairman of the foreign interference committee, the body that was supposed to be watching over qatargate. the aim failed, but the socialist glucksmann would have liked to be rewarded by becoming vice-president. and if it was a joke, i think it was a joke in very bad taste. what we have left of the inge 1 committee is a final report which is biased and outdated. it's become a piece of paper because only yesterday the milan prosecutor's office asked for the case of the alleged funds coming from russia for the benefit of my party to be filed. and it would be the least that those in this house who have staged a sordid witch hunt should now apologize, although they are unnecessarily busy campaigning for the regional elections in lombardy. this parliament, ladies and gentlemen, has one last chance to show a shred of credibility. tomorrow we are voting on the surrogate of mrs kaili and it would be a signal from the majority of this parliament to include mrs tardino, a member of identity and democracy, among the twenty who sit on the bureau of this parliament. show that you're not afraid of someone who can do serious surveillance. you have shown respect for the 10% of european citizens who you did not want to be represented. this is the last train that passes.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we need a starting point to say that we do not want to pass any criminal judgement on the people involved, but to use the highest democratic institution, the european parliament, for its own purposes, making a mockery not only of the organization itself but also of the ideas which underlie the democratic process, and distorting and distorting them, is the lowest level to which a representative elected by the people can go. it should be stressed, however, that the figures involved all belong to a political group, the socialists, who have substantiated their political action with great hypocrisy and without any authority as a judge of ethics and morals. it doesn't matter if it's qatar, morocco or any other country. our position must be clear, firm, decisive, without any political primogeniture. our ideas and our culture are not for sale, and our institutions should not be places for crime, but spaces in which the political process and the instances of civil society can come together for the common good.
mr president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the challenge of dictatorships to democracies has begun again. we need unity of purpose in all democracies, even outside the borders of the european union. that is why it is really important to forge stronger cooperation ties with the usa, with israel and with the asian democracies which share our values. but is this unity of purpose really achieved by the principle of unanimity? we are not going to take important decisions against the interests of minority member states. europe is strong because it is plural. europe is strong when the nations that make it up are strong. we must never confuse unity with unification and centralization. we've decided to prioritize defending our eastern flank. and that's right. but i see little interest in the mediterranean. and there are still ongoing conflicts in libya, in syria. we must fight against the hostile influences of russia and china. right, right. but everyone has to clean their house. qatargate shows that a large part of european politics has been bought off by countries that violate human rights. a europe of the many and of the free. free from all hostile influences, without exception concerned. this is the europe we want.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, i appreciate the work done by the rapporteur, my colleague, ms wiseler—lima. she did a good job connecting all of us as one team and streamlining our work. the past year has been full of geopolitical upheavals, new political challenges and moves towards weakening or even abandoning international human-rights standards. the european union, as an organisation that exclusively recognises the pre-eminence of human rights and democratic rights, cannot observe these developments with indifference. it is important for us not only to keep up the fight for observance of human rights, but also to develop new instruments. i call on the european commission to draw up as soon as possible an updated european union magnitsky act to include corruption as a crime violating human rights. i want to assure everyone that the renew europe political group remains a reliable partner in the continuing struggle for human rights and democracy in the world. we will continue to work and to ensure that those whose human rights and fundamental freedoms are trampled upon are heard, and that their persecutors receive the appropriate punishment.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that this parliament's report is an annual one, but the subject of human rights and corruption deserves some serious thought this year. too often it has been used as a tool to attack governments which are politically opposed to the left, only to discover that behind those statements of admiration for the most illiberal islamic regimes, made by various leftists, there were motives, i would say, hundreds of thousands of very low motives. i hope that in the future we will be able to give a new meaning to words, to defend the defenceless, the oppressed, the victims of religious hatred, as the burned people are living yesterday in africa, simply because they are christians, in the indifference and silence of everyone, including the european institutions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in this report parliament will again this year express its opposition to the absurd practice of surrogacy. yet, with a small adjective, one is committing a huge naiveté, condemning only the commercial one. anyone who knows the business well knows that altruistic surrogacy, including reimbursement of clinical expenses, lawyers and intermediaries, is really just a business that is ashamed to be called altruistic. there is no surrogacy that does not involve the reproductive market. we should instead try to support the adoption system, because the desire to become parents is a beautiful thing, but it cannot be achieved at the expense of the dignity of women and children. that is why i invite you to condemn all forms of commercial and charitable surrogacy by accepting the proposal that we have put forward as the id group. there is no altruism when a newborn is torn from the womb that raised it and the woman's body is reduced to a means to an end.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today the news finally reached the italian press that the courts in milan had ordered the investigation into russian funds to the league to be closed. we have always supported it: the lega, matteo salvini never saw a ruble, but here in europe there were some on the left who wanted to find the friends of the russians, wanted to accuse us of international corruption, when instead there was corruption at home. i am glad that the league's position in recent years has been firmly in favour of the western bloc in support of the ukrainian people, who have been unjustly victims of a military invasion. and that is the position of the italian government. i am proud in this respect that the new centre-right government has given a very clear signal by promoting the 'ukraine electricity emergency' working group, which has already provided 53 tonnes of material to rebuild the country's electricity grid, which is vital to ensuring the survival of ukrainians. we support the establishment of the special tribunal for the crimes committed by the russian armed forces, because the massacre of civilians, women and children must always be brought to justice, in the hope that a peace agreement will be reached as soon as possible in 2023.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, i am also a member of the delegation for relations with iran. we have had many debates on the situation in iran, even before the crisis and the conflict that started in september, and some of us had already denounced certain things. perhaps some of the blood that was shed could have been avoided. the akbari case is a very serious case, but i hope that next month we will not have to repeat the same kind of debate, because there are too many very serious cases. in addition to the blood that has been shed, there is the issue of cyber attacks on a european country, albania; the drones, we said earlier in the ukraine debate, supplied to russia; penalties which are too lenient; we must support those who are fighting against that regime, because here, in this house too, there were those who defended a little too openly an agreement, the nuclear agreement, which in my view should not be defended at all, because we cannot afford to give iran the status of a nuclear power. and yet another act of courage, albeit symbolic, to put the islamic revolutionary guard corps on the list of terrorist organizations. i expect a stronger commitment from the commission in this respect.
madam president, commissioner reynders, ladies and gentlemen, i’m enjoying this midnight session. the relations between the european union and latin america are not just a priority for some european countries because of their traditional bilateral relations: this partnership is a priority for the entire european union as a whole and strategically important to strengthen the international rules—based order. but colleagues, actions speak, not words, and to ensure that our efforts are credible, let us finally complete the modernisation of existing association agreements with mexico and chile. let us finally sign the negotiated post—cotonou agreement with the african, caribbean and pacific community. let us finally ratify the association agreement with central america, and let us finally finalise the eu—mercosur agreement. trade plays an important role, yet these agreements are not just trade deals. these agreements are vehicles for a new and modernised agenda of cooperation. they are, in the end, a matter of credibility for our relationship and key to strengthening the european union as a geopolitical actor. colleagues, actions speak, not words.
madam president, relations between the european union and the latin american and caribbean region need more attention. this is why the summit, which will bring together leaders from both regions of the world in brussels this year after eight years of waiting, must relaunch the relations between the two regions that are needed to advance the cause of sustainability and social justice at the global level. the moves of our global competitors advise us to complete outstanding agreements, such as mercosur, and open new chapters of cooperation, with mechanisms such as the global gateway in digitalization, energy, transport and governance. progress is not just growth, it's social justice. there is no fair economic development without social development. in this new stage we must work together to grow, eradicating poverty and inequality. that is the best way to strengthen democracy, to make room for polarization, populism and the autocracies that arise from it, and to promote advanced standards of coexistence and freedom. our support for any process that promotes these living conditions underpins peace, stability and progress, from which opportunities for all on both sides of the atlantic are born.
madam president, it is necessary to seriously and systematically strengthen the strategic relationship between the european union and latin america, all the more so as there is a current of political change in latin america which opens up an opportunity for more and better cooperation, and at a time when it is clear that we europeans need to have more reliable partners in the world. this relationship must be developed on an equal footing and based on mutual respect, with agendas that go beyond trade and investment and include fundamental issues such as the fight against climate change and social inequalities, the defence of human rights, shared development, the protection of nature and biodiversity, feminism, the defence of democratic institutions, the fight against organised crime or respect for indigenous peoples and self-determination. finally, this strengthened relationship must also be an incentive towards greater integration among the peoples of latin america.
madam president, commissioner, 2023 has to be the year of the agreements. the intensification of relations with latin america should be reflected in the signing and ratification of the pending agreements with mercosur. in an international scenario of uncertainty and where actors like russia and china are doubling their presence in latin america, we cannot afford to lose allies. enough of the protectionist deviations of some member states. enough of thwarting attempts at further economic integration between the two blocs. enough of the excuses. we are talking about opportunities. finally, i do not want to forget one fundamental element. i hope that the next eu-celac summit will pay particular attention to the protection of human rights and the strengthening of democracy and the rule of law in latin america, and that it will in no way serve as an act of whitewashing authoritarian regimes.
madam president, i am one of those people who always prefer to see the glass half full and i think today is an occasion for that, considering this debate not as the last of the day but as the first of the morning. the first of a new moment in the vision of the european union's relations with latin america. there is no doubt that the european union needs to strengthen its relations with latin america and the caribbean in order to strengthen our model of democracy based on principles and values, which is more important today than ever, as we have just seen in the events in brazil, to strengthen our economic and trade relations based on fair, responsible, sustainable trade, protecting the rights of individuals and, of course, to face the great challenges of today. the european union needs reliable and credible partners to meet these challenges, and latin american partners are reliable and credible. we must strengthen our bilateral relations with chile and mexico and be able to develop an overall strategy on the continent by supporting the few integration processes, starting with mercosur. latin america is a young continent that is looking for its own space and its own voice. together, our voices will be stronger.
madam president, commissioner, i fully agree with you on the importance of latin america for the union. did you refer to the agreements between mexico and chile? we have to finish processing it. we can't waste any more time. i hope that the increased commitment of the lula government to the fight against climate change will favour the mercosur agreement. i hope that the protectionist concerns of some european countries will not continue to hamper it. it is also true that many of the countries of latin america have to make an effort to respect human rights, democratic freedoms, the rule of law, legal security and social progress. we cannot forget the human rights situation in the region, particularly in cuba, nicaragua and venezuela. how are we going to get more respect for human rights in these countries? in conclusion, i should like to condemn the events in brazil at the beginning of january. the constitutional order must prevail in this great country, which is a strategic partner of the union, as is mexico. i am also pleased that brazil has announced its re-admission to celac.
madam president, of course we all want the best relationship with latin america. here in this european parliament, many members from all political groups are always advocating that better relationship. but how can europe best help? or rather, what latin america are we talking about? are we talking to latin america that wants to live in freedom, in prosperity, or to the one that is immersed in this bolivarian left that is conquering all the governments in the area? and once they are in government, bloody dictatorships are established, such as we have in nicaragua, venezuela or cuba. i condemn what has happened in brazil, we all condemn it in this european parliament. when will the left in this parliament condemn the murderous regime in nicaragua which is torturing religious men, women and children? when are you going to condemn the maduro regime instead of keeping that complicit silence in exchange for oil? we can see macron's embraces now with maduro. in short, we must of course give serious thought to who it is with whom we europeans want to work.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank all members of parliament who intervened and for the support you expressed for enhancing our regional partnership with latin american and the caribbean region. we take home the invitation to bring even more reasons to continue the dialogue, to engage strategically and mobilise resources for the benefit of citizens on both sides of this other transatlantic relationship. one thing is clear: the green and digital transitions will be just and sustainable only if enough countries around the globe join us in this endeavour. and latin america and the caribbean region is a natural partner to make this happen. there is a common understanding that we need to advance on the conclusion and ratification of pending agreements. these will open up new areas of cooperation and opportunities for both regions. in the particular case of mercosur, as mentioned today, the change of dynamics brought by the new brazilian administration brings a window of opportunity that cannot be lost. we need to intensify our bi-regional political dialogue at all levels and the work of the eurolat parliamentary assembly remains key along the way. it is remarkable that the euro-latin american assembly has never ceased its work since its creation 16 years ago, helping to build bridges, even in the absence of summits. indeed, we have a lot of work ahead of us to put relations between all regions in the place they deserve. let me thank this parliament for its continued support to achieve this objective. we have a lot of things to do in 2023, but maybe starting from tomorrow.
i have received a request from the european public prosecutor’s office for the parliamentary immunity of eva kaili to be waived.
georgios kyrtsos has submitted a request for the defence of his parliamentary immunity in the context of the complaint he has made against the greek authorities about phone-tapping. this request is referred to the committee on legal affairs.
i have received a request from the european public prosecutor’s office for the parliamentary immunity of maria spyraki to be waived. this request is referred to the committee on legal affairs.
in relation to the decision by the empl committee to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) announced at the opening of the sitting on monday 16 january, i have received requests for a vote in parliament pursuant to rule 71(2), from members reaching at least the medium threshold, on the decision to enter into negotiations on the proposal for a directive on improving working conditions in platform work. the votes will be held tomorrow.
the next item is the debate on the european council and commission statements on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 15 december 2022 (2022/3007(rsp)).
president of the european council. - madam president of the european parliament, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. for nearly one year, russia has pursued a strategy of destruction, a strategy of terror, trying to bomb the people of ukraine into submission, and we have witnessed this strategy in bakhmut, in soledar or more recently in dnipro. but ukrainians are resisting and they will continue to resist. and we, the european union, will continue to support them for as long as it takes. we will continue our military support thanks to an increase of the european peace facility. the time is now. they urgently need more equipment and i am personally in favor of supplying tanks to ukraine. we have also adopted a macro-financial assistance programme of eur 18 billion and we are stepping up the pressure on the kremlin, with a ninth package of sanctions. we have also increased our material aid, especially to help ukrainians face winter as russia continues to destroy their infrastructure. we have sent nearly 80,000 tons of material such as generators, boilers and transformers. the european union and its member states are massively supporting ukraine. we have already committed nearly eur 50 billion and european citizens are in favour of this support, according to the latest eurobarometer. our citizens know that supporting ukraine means supporting peace, democracy and the international order. ladies and gentlemen, the european council had a debate on our transatlantic relationship, a debate closely linked to another key priority for the eu: our european competitiveness, especially of our industry and future technologies. and this will feature at our next european council meeting in february. the european union and the united states we are close allies, yet even allies sometimes have differences. this is the case with the inflation reduction act. this legislation creates a $370 billion package of subsidies and tax credits to develop an ecosystem of advanced technologies to foster the climate transition and to promote american leadership in these sectors. and let's be clear: these goals are laudable and legitimate, but their translation into the inflation reduction act poses serious problems for international competition and trade rules. and we sincerely hope the dialogue with our american friends will lead to concrete positive results. let's be clear: in my opinion, european companies must be able to benefit from the same conditions as canadian and mexican companies. but, ladies and gentlemen, we must look reality squarely in the face. our american ally is embracing a massive state aid policy and china continues to invest state money in its technology sector. in europe we must also act to show our european industry and our citizens that we are up to the challenge. our european model consists of a social market economy that implies for very good reasons higher labour and environmental costs, and the current energy crisis means that we have to face high energy costs for the foreseeable future. the eu has helped to build a global system based on free trade while striving to ensure a level playing field, but we cannot stand idly by as our main competitors embrace policies of massive economic support for their companies. we must therefore mobilise massive resources to drive forward an ambitious european industrial policy, to boost competitiveness, to turbocharge activity and to spur investment. and that is why, in december, the european council tasked the commission with bringing forward proposals in view of our next meeting. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we can see that this is a crucial moment to support the economic future and the future of the internal market of the european union. i will share with you what i think should be the framework for our european council meeting in february on this subject. i see four points on which we will have to take decisions and give a number of guidelines. the first concerns the question of state aid schemes. state aid schemes reflect the european union's ambition to trust the private sector, globalisation and initiative. this scheme has played a key role in ensuring that the economic base of the european union can be developed in recent years. but at the same time, it is clear that the changing world around us must make us consider the adaptations that will be necessary. the commission is expected to make operational proposals to take advantage of the benefits of an amended regime on this subject, while guaranteeing the integrity of the internal market, making sure that there are no 'double standards', no case-by-case analysis, but shared rules to consolidate the dynamics of the internal market. the second important point is common sense, to look at how existing resources can be mobilised at european level. of course, the budget, the recovery plan, but also at the national level. give more flexibility, speed up, perhaps reorient when necessary, to take account of the situation as it may have evolved in recent weeks. the third point that we all have to bear in mind is the need for this european project, which is solidarity. it is well known that not all european countries have exactly the same financial capacity. it would be wrong to be committed to trying to guarantee a level playing field with our competitors outside the european union without having the ambition to continue working towards greater economic and social convergence at european level. and that is why i am one of those who think that we will have to look at a possible extension of the sure mechanism which can be a source of inspiration, i believe, in order to provide a realistic and tangible response to this demand for solidarity. and finally, fourthly, i would like to express my full support for the idea that was put forward in this european parliament's gallery at the time of the state of the union address by the president of the commission in connection with the european sovereignty fund. it is an idea, i can see that, that will take more time, that will probably require more careful work, but it is a sensible idea. if we believe in the strategic autonomy of the european union, if we believe that it makes sense to socialise the financial means needed to invest in tomorrow's digital and climate technologies, we must also have the ambition, i believe, to socialise the benefits and take into account the interest of investing in equity capital. i believe that the european investment bank should play a major role as the backbone of the hope that we can succeed from the commission's proposals, with a mobilisation of parliament and the member states to make progress on what should be an instrument of european power. in my view, this is a point directly linked to our ambition for sovereignty and strategic autonomy. a simple reflection at this point that i would like to share with you: we are well aware that the paradigm in which the european union has been built in recent years is being shaken economically. i am shocked because for a long time now china has been upsetting the rules of the game with its massive subsidies. and disturbed because our main ally, our international partner, in so many subjects and fields, in so many subjects and priorities, decides to put in place a massive plan. this means that there is a responsibility to act quickly and to act strongly to ensure that the internal market is able to protect and strengthen its capacity to remain a key asset for the future of the european union. here are some points, dear friends, that i wanted to share with you. before concluding, i would like to make a few further points in connection with the subjects discussed at the european council in december. on the energy front, you have been able to follow the debates - i think we have made good progress since our last meeting in this parliament - on the council's ability, after a proposal from the commission, to agree on a ceiling for the price of gas. we can see that this, together with the weather which was favourable, is leading to an improvement in the gas situation, which is a good thing. we have seen some progress in terms of storage. progress has also been made in terms of energy efficiency, but it is clear that this subject will continue to be a major concern for us, especially when the commission makes the proposal on the reform of the electricity market, which is also an extremely important subject. finally, the council also had the opportunity to briefly address the issue of migration, with the ambition of returning to the subject of migration in more detail in february. a few points in relation to this to indicate that the figures are known: there was a substantial increase in the number of illegal arrivals on eu soil in 2022, so this means that we will have to be committed again, both in the external dimension of migration, partnerships with third countries, strengthening the capacity to control the external borders of the european union, but also be very committed to progress in the framework of the migration pact put on the table by the commission and for which, as you know, there is an agreement between parliament and the rotating presidencies on legislative work. i hope that parliament too, together with the council, can continue to make progress towards the implementation of this road map, which i believe provides possible structural solutions to deal with the migration challenge in a fair, solidary, just and responsible way. and finally, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot address you without thinking of the women, the young people and the people of iran who are rising up against a brutal regime, against a regime that is terrorizing. this is why the council has given impetus to strengthen the sanctions regime. this is also in addition to iran's commitment to support russia militarily in the war against ukraine. these reasons lead us to consider that these faces of women, of young people, of all the iranian people mobilizing for freedom, are the faces of freedom, are the faces of democracy. our responsibility is not to be blind or deaf, not to be idle, but to be committed to supporting those who stand up for freedom, for democracy. i conclude by saying that 2023 will certainly be a key year for the european project. as you can see, we are just a few days into the new year with a number of uncertainties ahead of us, but also with some milestones, some milestones. we know that strategic autonomy, which until recently was perhaps a theoretical debate, is becoming a very real debate, with three key pillars at the heart of the european agenda. on the one hand, the energy issue: guaranteeing sovereignty, also guaranteeing that the climate challenge is taken into account and the need to guarantee support for our families, the competitiveness of companies, the first element. secondly, security and defence: we see clearly in the context of military support for ukraine that in the context of nato a declaration with nato was endorsed by the president, the secretary-general and myself a few days ago. we want to strengthen the european pillar and europe's capacity to take greater responsibility for its own security destiny with our allies. and then the third pillar, we're at the heart of the subject, it's the technological base, it's innovation. all societies in the world and throughout history that have been able to progress, that have been able to raise their living standards, have done so on the pillar of technology and innovation, which are key issues if we want to give a prosperous and secure future to our fellow citizens. and all of this in the context of this twofold promise to our founding fathers: peace and prosperity. 2023, key year for peace, key year for prosperity, and it is once again unity that will be the determining factor in bringing us to face the challenges we collectively face. thanks to the good cooperation with the european parliament, you can count on the council even more than you imagine.
president of the commission. – madam president metsola, dear roberta, president michel, dear charles, honourable members, first of all let me wish a very happy birthday to you, president metsola. i am sure that i am speaking for all members of this house when i say how much i admire the strength and the resolve you bring to your position as president of the european parliament, because this kind of strength and resolve is exactly what europe needs as russia’s war against ukraine continues. the latest symbol of russia’s terror is – you might have all seen it – a yellow kitchen. a very simple yellow kitchen in an apartment building in dnipro. one day the room is filled with happiness. a little girl celebrates her birthday, surrounded by this yellow furniture and by a loving family. the day after, the kitchen is no more, the family is no more, the girl’s father has been killed by russian missiles. all their lives have been shattered by russian imperialism – and this is what ukraine is standing up against. this is what we are all standing up against. we have just launched as the european union the first tranche of eur 3 billion of our eur 18 billion support package for 2023. and again, we will remain at ukraine’s side for as long as it takes. we have also shown strength and resolve to replace russian fossil fuels and to bring down prices and our joint efforts are paying off now. gas prices are now lower than they were before russia’s invasion in ukraine. the prices of dutch ttf have dropped more than 80% since august. we have been able to replace most of the russian fossil fuels. our gas storages are still over 80% full. this is among the highest level ever this time of the year. and most importantly, we managed to double the amount of additional renewable energy that was coming to our market during the last year. of course, some external factors helped – the mild weather and china’s covid lockdown. but at the same time, other external factors also made our life more difficult. it’s exactly this unusual warm and dry weather which also resulted in a sharp decrease in hydropower. you all recall it. so, we’ve been able to completely get rid of the russian coal. we have been able to wind down the russian oil. we have been able to really fence off the blackmail of russia where the gas is concerned because putin decided to cut 80% of the gas supply, and this was a big strategic mistake. we freed ourselves from his grip. and thus, honourable members, that we came through this winter safely is first and foremost the result of unity, the result of collective hard work and i think we should take pride in this. so for this winter, we are safe. but we’re not out of the woods yet. we now have to prepare for next winter. and here, the joint energy platform is up and running. with the support of member states and european industry we are creating a european consortium that will allow us to aggregate demand and effectively leverage the eu’s political and market weight. that’s what we always wanted – our collective market power of 27. now we aim at launching negotiations with the key international gas suppliers already in early spring, with the aim to conclude first joint contracts well before summer. honourable members, these achievements show the power of europe’s collective ambition and will, and we need more of the same for the year ahead of us. and it is good to know that the swedish presidency shares this ambition. because not only are our energy systems at a crossroads: the competitiveness of the whole of our economy needs to be maintained and this transformational task is huge. just keep in mind that in less than three decades we want to reach net zero. that’s a huge transformation. and everybody knows that the key to manage or, even better, to lead this transformation is our clean—tech sector. the international energy agency estimates that the market for mass—manufactured clean energy tech will be worth around usd 650 billion a year – a year! – by 2030, more than triple today’s value. and this is why, of course, the united states put forward the inflation reduction act. so, we discussed the pros and the cons here in the plenary in december. today, i want to lay out our answer, and that is the green deal industrial plan. the green deal industrial plan will be built on four pillars. the first pillar is about speed and access. we need to create a regulatory environment that allows us to scale up fast and to create conducive conditions for the clean—tech industry. speed and access, over and over. if there’s anything the companies are complaining about, it’s that, for example, permitting is too slow and that there are too many barriers. so to help make this change happen, speed and access, we will put forward the new net—zero industry act. what is it? just think this act will follow the same model as the chips act. it will specially look at how to simplify and fast-track permitting for new clean—tech production sites. competitiveness, that’s the key word – enable the companies to go forward with innovation and with production that is so crucial. the second pillar of the green deal industrial plan will boost investment and financing of clean—tech production. we will propose to temporarily adapt our state aid rules to speed up again and to simplify – so easier calculations, simpler procedures, accelerated approvals, for example, with simple tax—break models. but at the same time, if we give state aid and this is for the level playing field globally, we have to be very careful that we preserve the level playing field for businesses all across europe, so in our single market. and thus the second or the other side of the coin of state aid, beyond the european sovereignty fund that i announced in my state of the union, we will have to look into a bridging solution to provide fast and targeted financial support where it is most needed for the clean—tech sector. state aid one side of the coin, funding the other side, investment the other side of the coin. the third pillar of the green deal industrial plan has to do with skills: people. just two figures. as an example, the battery industry will need 800 000 skilled workers by 2025. that’s huge, this figure. so this is why we launched the european battery academy. this is one part to address this topic. or take the solar industry, 1 million skilled workers are needed by 2030. this is twice as many as we have today. this is a huge challenge, but it’s also a huge opportunity to create good jobs, well-paying jobs, the jobs of the future. and this will be the absolute priority of our european year of skills. and finally, the fourth pillar. we will follow through with our ambitious trade agenda for clean tech, to deliver net—zero globally, there will be a need for strong and resilient supply chains and this is linked to trade. so we will seek to conclude new trade agreements with chile, with mexico, with new zealand, with australia. we will do everything to progress with india, with indonesia, and we have a unique window of opportunity now to take forward, finally, the eu-mercosur agreement. so honourable members, this is the plan, time is of the essence and i count on your support to make it happen. long live europe!
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, president von der leyen, president michel, welcome back to the european parliament. indeed, almost a year ago, russia started what is an unjustified and unprovoked war in ukraine. we have seen during this time that russia knows no limits in harming people. but we have also seen that europe can help people more than russia can harm people. we have also seen the fundamental difference between the european model and the russian autocratic model. we are a model that puts the citizen at the centre of our action, we act for the citizens; russia and all autocrats around the world act against the citizens. they use people just for the will of political leadership. while russia talks about the past, we prepare for the future. we are ready to modernise our countries, to further develop, to provide jobs, to care for the people, also in the future. we know that russia is losing militarily. we see that russia is losing economically, politically, and they have already lost morally. this is why the european model is the model that people have to look to. and the russian model and any autocratic tendencies around the world are worth turning our backs upon them. this year will still be a difficult year for all of us, but we are also seeing the strength and the resilience of europe. we see that unemployment is low, that people have jobs. we see that production is stable. we see that consumption is stable. and we see that eu member states are helping the most vulnerable people in the face of this crisis, with fiscal measures, with measures to overcome well this winter, this period. we also see that the european union has done its part. just one week before christmas we have managed to get the european parliament council and commission to successfully conclude the negotiations on repowereu. this will help improve our infrastructure, further reduce our dependency on russia, and it will bring european money to help companies in need and to help people in need. last year we have managed to reduce our dependency on russian gas, on russian energy. we have taken first measures to reduce prices of energy in europe, and this year, with the measures announced by the president, with the measures that we are going to do together, buying together, storing together, we are going to make sure that prices remain predictable, controllable, no more price—hikes in the future. and this is good for the people in europe and it is bad for the russian leadership. competitiveness will also be important because we can only secure high standards of living, high social standards in europe if our economy is strong, if there is global demand for our goods. this is why, in the conference on the future of europe, we have together agreed on the competitiveness check to make sure that any legislation that we put forward together in the future does not harm the competitiveness of our economies. the european parliament, national parliaments, council, commission, citizens, businesses support this, so let us work on this deal. make sure that it sees the light of the day. and yes, simplifying and financing the transition to the green economy will be key. this is what we have started last year. this is what we have to continue this year. let us do this together. it is all about preparing and acting together to overcome this situation. we have done a lot. i think premises are good to overcome difficulties this year together.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, commission president, vice—president, president, dear colleagues, the cost—of—living crisis affecting our european citizens unfortunately persists, and we are therefore concerned that the european council conclusions fail to prioritise the support for our citizens and the cushioning of the crisis’ social consequences. while we support the european council’s efforts to safeguard europe’s industrial and also technological base, we urge the european council not to neglect strong measures for households to bring the bills down. the socialists and democrats believe that especially our vulnerable citizens must be protected from getting their electricity and their gas disconnected. no one should have to live in a cold home in the midst of this winter. more broadly, we need to strengthen european fiscal capacity, support employment and equality, as well as to facilitate investment to accelerate the just transition. better working conditions for platform workers, a strengthened framework for fair taxation and an economic governance that foresees a permanent fiscal capacity inspired by next generation eu will support social and economic progress. we expect the council to work on these files with urgency and with determination. ‘ and now more than ever, it is crucial that we remain all united in our unprecedented support to ukraine. we should push for qualified majority voting in foreign policy decisions to respond to putin’s attempt to undermine our unity. russia’s disinformation campaigns and attempts to interfere with our democratic systems, as well as the corruption allegations, show that we need vigorously to defend our democracies from external threats and we welcome the proposed joint actions. we must equally stand firmly behind a european perspective for ukraine, for georgia, and for the republic of moldova. in the western balkans we must accelerate the enlargement process and we must prove our credibility. we therefore welcome the decision to grant candidate status to bosnia and herzegovina. further, we would like to reiterate that for the socialists and democrats, the rule of law is not negotiable. we deplore the practice of some member states that threaten to deploy vetoes on essential files to achieve a softer approach on the rule of law, and for my political group, it is also very crucial to uphold our core values when it comes to migration. we reject the narratives of fear, and we want to finally advance on finding sustainable solutions based on solidarity and the individual right of asylum. madam president, this parliament and our union must remain strong and we must remain united to face all these challenges.
for the greens/efa group madam president, good morning, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the council, madam president of the commission, i would of course like to wish you the best of the greens/european free alliance for 2023. you said, mr michel, that 2023 would be a key year, but 2020 was a key year, 2021 was a key year, 2022 was a key year and i am pleased to see that, in the face of all these key years, the unity and determination of europeans has held firm. i think the challenge here is to maintain this collective dynamic, which is the only way for europeans to retain sovereignty, that is to say the ability to decide independently about our future. i'd like to engage with you in a little political-fiction exercise. imagine that in 2004, josé manuel barroso had the idea of launching a green deal for europe at the beginning of his first term. ten years later, in 2014, europe would have become so free of russian fossil fuels that we could have then taken the necessary sanctions against vladimir putin, perhaps in a way to dissuade him from going further than the annexation of crimea. maybe in 2022, then, the late rallying of the united states to the climate emergency would have made us happy and we would have waited for it with a firm footing, because by then we would have been so far ahead that the competitiveness of our economy would not have been at risk. but now, the vision is missing. it took ursula von der leyen to launch the green deal. so we're facing an emergency and we're not gonna dwell on the past. we're where we are, so what do we do? the first thing i would say is that we must not let up on the ambition of the green deal. as you said, madam president, i know that this green deal is making us all uncomfortable, that is to say, we need to make very profound changes very quickly. but it's also from discomfort that movement comes. and i want to see proof of this in the fact that the energy war being waged by the russian president has produced energy savings that even the president of the commission could not have imagined: when you said minus 15%, we did better than that. in other words, when you put pressure, there is movement, and i think we have to accept that for a few more years we will be in discomfort. but it's this discomfort that's going to make us move. secondly, i understand that the situation of some undertakings is made difficult by this inconvenience. and if there are to be subsidies, i would really like to insist that these subsidies be targeted; i am very concerned about the state of our public finances. it is true that with covid, we watered so widely that some who should not have received subsidies did. for example, in belgium i can receive a fuel check when i do not need it. so i think the urgency is to target. thirdly, i will, and this will surprise manfred weber, agree with certain statements made by the swedish prime minister yesterday. it is true that one of the factors of competitiveness for the european economy is investment in research and development. it is absolutely crucial, we are behind on this, we are suffering again from a rentier capitalism instead of having an entrepreneur capitalism. we really need to increase research and development efforts because that is where the foundations of future competitiveness lie. finally, i think we will not spare the effort to extend and perpetuate this great achievement of the next generation eu. in other words, to respond to covid, we found collective energy on the basis of a commission plan and with unanimous agreement in the council, which was still not easy to obtain. we have launched next generation eu, we think it is good to do it for three years, but we have to make it last throughout the transition if we want to put the public resources in place to make europe the leader of the transition. i hope in any case that next generation eu will be perceived, especially in the net contributing member states, as a success, so as to convince them and us that this is the way of the future.
in the name of the id group. madam president, happy birthday again, ladies and gentlemen, the last european council, almost a year after the outbreak of the war in ukraine, reaffirmed the unconditional support that the european countries and the european institutions are ready to give to the ukrainian people in their struggle for freedom. but it also laid the important groundwork for what the political priorities are for 2023, which must be a year of rebirth after so much suffering. and the political priorities of these institutions must focus primarily on three major themes that will define the future of european countries and european institutions over the next 20, 30, 40 years: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. we welcome the fact that that meeting laid the groundwork for a meeting in february on security and immigration, and i hope that in 2023 this meeting will lay the groundwork for a different approach to this issue than in the past, which should focus on reducing departures and protecting the external borders. only by reducing departures will we reduce deaths at sea and convince all european countries to talk about redistribution in smaller numbers. as regards energy, which is the most pressing issue, i share in part what president van der leyen said: it is true that the european union has moved along in these difficult months, but perhaps the result and the situation, which is less bad than we expected this winter, are not so much due to the efficiency of the measures put in place, but rather to exogenous and favourable conditions, which are not dependent on it. this should be a reason to encourage us to work more concretely on two lines: the first is energy independence, which is still far from being achieved, and the second is the evaluation of a green transition, which must be pragmatic and not ideological. and as far as russia is concerned, it is true that the measures have been quite effective, but it is also true that russian energy products, bypassing the sanctions, continue to arrive in europe in a significant way. so we expect a lot more from this. the last issue, which he spoke about in davos, is the economy. the outlook presented on the first day is not a very positive one for europe, although conditions in this field also seem to be less bad than we expected. we must not only be concerned about competitiveness with countries outside the european union, but we must also preserve competitiveness within the continent and the integrity of the single market, which is certainly the greatest success of european integration. the data on state aid are worrying. in the last year of the hundreds of billions of schemes approved by the commission, 80% have concerned europe's two largest economies and more than 50% the largest. the internal market is thus in danger. we expect concrete action and we will also judge the action of the european institutions in 2023 on this basis.
the debate is suspended.
we have just been informed that the minister of internal affairs of ukraine and the leadership of his ministry have been killed in a helicopter crash near kyiv. we are informed that an investigation is under way to establish the cause. i think i speak on all our behalf when i say that our thoughts and those of this house are with all the brave people of ukraine, with the families and loved ones of minister monastyrskyy and first deputy yenin, and with all those tragically killed, allegedly also children. we mourn with them today and we will remain by their side.
we now continue with the debate on the european council and commission statements on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 15 december 2022 (2022/3007(rsp)).
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, president of the council, president and vice—president of the commission, this has been a tough winter for many people across europe, and we must be clear: much of the blame lies at the door of vladimir putin and his brutal war of aggression against ukraine. as always, solidarity with the people of ukraine must be our watchword, and to join with your words a couple of minutes ago, madam president, i too – as with all colleagues, i’m sure – join in sharing those words of sympathy with regard to what has happened over the last number of hours. solidarity should also be a requirement with our most vulnerable. this solidarity cannot be just one—off actions. these must last as long as is needed through the winter and beyond, and they must be substantive and worthwhile. the eu and the irish government have taken some steps and actions, but there remains an ideological block in place that means a commitment to a certain economic model and the market, which often clouds judgements and prevents real and immediate action to help families and workers. we need only to look at the time wasted in setting a cap on runaway gas prices to see how real solidarity is subject to a veto by abstract right—wing ideology. my own government must act before we have a mortgage crisis as mortgage rates follow the ecb’s lead. in ireland, this comes on top of the disastrous rental market situation, and only this week new research showed the wealthiest 1% of irish society owns over a quarter of the country’s wealth. this creates understandable anger. a tiny percentage are attempting to direct this anger towards some of the most vulnerable refugees and asylum seekers. their agenda is hateful and will be rejected by communities from across ireland. so we need to see real solidarity: rent freezes; pay rises; a ban on energy disconnections; concrete economic and social support for all workers and families. this is the way through this crisis. solidarity with our most vulnerable who struggle to put food on the table or heat the home, or those in difficulty maintaining a roof over their heads and for all who seek refuge at this time. my message to the council is to drop the excuses and commit to long—term solidarity in actions, not just words.
madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, on the current energy crisis, we as the five star movement would have preferred more courage and more ambition on the part of this union. the gas price ceiling is difficult to achieve and the necessary investments to replace gas with a mix of policies based on renewables and energy savings are lacking. it is not enough to replace russian gas with that of qatar or algeria, which are not fully democratic regimes. this is to say that everything is fine, because in the first crisis it will be the citizens and businesses who will pay the bill. president, next generation eu has been a success, we acknowledge it, we acknowledge it, in a difficult time like the pandemic, we have ensured social cohesion and boosted investment in key areas like green transition and technological innovation. it is clear that the reform of state aid is not enough, we need a new recovery, which is what our president giuseppe conte has proposed. a recovery based on energy. it is only in this way that our firms will not fall victim to this price increase and will be more competitive when they compete with american and asian firms. at the next european council we shall be thinking of building the europe of the future, stronger, greener and fairer.
madam president, happy birthday! president of the european council, vice-president of the commission, first i would like naturally to show our deepest concern with the news that we receive from ukraine and kyiv. then let me say that i would like to congratulate again croatia for joining schengen. however, two member states, bulgaria and romania, were left out, and a major injustice occurred. it is highly regrettable that the european council was not able to overcome politically this huge mistake of 8 december. this is inexcusable and we call on the swedish presidency to do their utmost to turn this injustice around. then i would like also to congratulate the decision on bosnia and herzegovina, to grant to this country the candidate status, and we look forward to cooperate with them in this european path. em dezembro, o conselho instou a comissão a apresentar uma estratégia para a indústria europeia e para impulsionar as nossas economias. ontem, a presidente von der leyen apresentou o plano da comissão. todos concordamos que os estados unidos não são os nossos inimigos, são parceiros e aliados, e por isso devemos trabalhar em conjunto para alcançar uma concorrência equitativa e leal, para ter um level playing field justo a nível global, mas também a nível europeu. e por isso termino deixando uma pergunta à comissão europeia: será que os subsídios que a alemanha ou a frança estão dispostas agora a gastar com as suas empresas não põem em causa o level playing field europeu? não põem em causa o mercado interno que agora celebra 30 anos? o que vai fazer a comissão e o que farão os governos, e nomeadamente o governo português, para evitar que milhões de pequenas e médias empresas dos pequenos e médios estados europeus sejam prejudicadas por estas medidas discriminatórias?
madam president, the ongoing energy crisis, inflation, the american inflation reduction act – all this is casting a large shadow over our economies. but it also is offering us an opportunity, which is to provide for a common european response. we have already seen that when the eu opts for common solutions at european level, it yields positive results. take, for instance, the nextgenerationeu and the impact that the rrf has and is having in dodging a prolonged economic downturn, or hopefully in keeping the eu on the path of economic growth. if we leave the answer only in the hands of each member state we know what happens. the gap will increase, according, amongst others, to the capacity of those with greater fiscal firepower, to offer subsidies to their citizens and companies. we need now to mobilise new resources to accompany european industries in the much—needed green transition to improve their capacity to compete internationally against other massive state aid schemes or against the lack of a level playing field. therefore i hope that the green deal industrial plan that has been announced today has a strong pillar in european common financial resources.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, since the last european council, there has been ample time to consider the decision to finally put a ceiling on the price of gas, on which, as we know, the price of all electricity depends. well, speculation has stopped on the amsterdam market and the price of gas fell yesterday to 51 euros and 40 cents per megawatt hour. one of the most vehement opponents of the price cap was the german socialist government, whose green economy minister robert habeck yesterday said: "it's true, in august we destroyed the gas market and raised prices up to 350 euros per megawatt hour, but we had to fill the stores and i think we did the right thing". no, it was not the right thing to do, it was a suicidal choice that enriched putin, that cost the german people 200 billion euros, tens of billions of euros to the italian people and that caused terrible suffering to businesses and families all over europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation that has arisen in spain is a clear example of how respect for the rule of law, even in democratic countries, can never be taken for granted, but must be monitored and constantly worked to maintain it. the judiciary must have the sole role of administering justice, regardless of the color of the government; on the other hand, the reforms of the executive must not be aimed at political control of the judiciary. the key point that i think is important to bring out in this debate is the fragility of one of the pillars of the rule of law, which is the judicial-executive balance of power. we have seen governments in several european union countries that have conditioned and subjugated the judiciary, and for this reason they have been strongly stigmatised in this house, but on the other hand we must not accept the politicization of the judiciary either, which is equally harmful but not as stigmatised and unfortunately widespread in other member states, including italy.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would start from some numbers of fraud and irregularity cases that were reported in 2021, compared to, for example, those in 2020. case numbers are stable. but what is most striking and worrisome is the value of irregularities, which have increased by 121%, and the total amount of irregularities and fraud has reached 3.24 billion. in my report we have emphasized the instruments for the protection of the financial interests of the european union. one of the main instruments that has come into play, and i think it is extremely important, is the eppo, the european public prosecutor's office. it is an essential element, it must be strengthened absolutely and its powers can also be increased, i think, for example, the question of environmental crimes. but we must not forget other important agencies, such as olaf, europol and eurojust, for which adequate resources must be provided, and it is clearly not an expense to provide these agencies with resources, but an investment to protect the financial interests of the european union. the needs which are highlighted in the report are different. for example, the need for member states to adhere to the pif directive, we have 17 member states that have not transposed it properly. then it is necessary to update the guidelines of the nas, i.e. the national audits dating back to 2015. it is important to focus on transparency and to make an annual anti-corruption report, which is a different thing from the report that is made on fraud, the mandatory nature of aracne and the correct application of the rules on conflict of interest. it is also important to have transparency on the actual beneficiaries and to avoid payments to companies based in tax havens and also to fight oligarchic structures. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the negotiations. let us remember that the financial interests of the european union are heavily affected by organised crime, including mafia crime, and it is therefore important that there are rules at european level but also rules at member state level which must be more effective and specific in all member states, because clearly organised crime can rely on transnationality and also on many professionals who support it in creating fraud. the second point is clearly the protection of journalists and whistleblowers who reveal so many frauds, and it is therefore necessary for the european union to make efforts to try to protect them. i would like to conclude this presentation by thanking you for something which is not strictly related to this report. in the field of organized crime, it is right to thank the italian carabinieri and its general commander for their anti-mafia efforts. and you'll have read the news in the newspapers that the arrest of the greatest fugitive of cosa nostra, matteo messina denaro, has been announced. for 30 years, this person has been wandering unmolested across europe, from spain to holland to other countries. i thank the carabinieri for their work. but now we need to know the whole truth about the cover-ups and the institutional protections and the truth about the killings.
i'm the reporter. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all those who have taken part in this debate and have given interesting insights. it was important to hear you, commissioner, and many colleagues who have mentioned the fight against organised crime as one of the priorities and there have been many interesting points, the transparency of money flows, the importance of prevention, the time taken to detect fraud and also the importance of recovering money. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs who worked with me on this report, which i believe was an important piece of work, and i would also like to thank the chairman of the committee on transport, monika hohlmeier, and all the members of the committee on transport, with whom it is always a pleasure to work constructively. i hope that tomorrow we will have a broad vote to show that the european parliament is united against fraud and corruption and to regain and maintain credibility with the people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is born to unite people who are proud of their different ethnic and cultural origins, which makes the union of different peoples with similar aims strong and necessary. the beauty of these different roots is shown by the flowers and fruits they have borne, like our splendid capitals, amazing in their history and today multicultural metropolises. that is why every incident of racism or ethnic intolerance, such as those which have recently taken place in paris, brussels and italy, must be condemned in the strongest possible terms. we must stop the rise of groups inspired by the extreme right and sympathetic to hitler and all organizations which reject democracy and free expression of opinion, as has happened in the usa and brazil. racism and anti-semitism must be fought from the earliest years of our children's lives, by families, schools, sports, recreational and cultural groups. but if they pollute our lives again with structured organizations, they must be severely and without the slightest tolerance cut off, starting right here, from the highest european institutions. the deadly subcultures which risked overwhelming the whole of humanity in the last century cannot and must not find a place in our europe today.
on behalf of the s&d group, president, and for the information of the translators: i'm going to speak dutch and english side by side. we've weaponised our drivers, we've weaponised our customers. all that was needed to get governments out of the way. our driving mantra was: do whatever it takes. the testimony of uber whistleblower and former lobbyist mark macgann in the social affairs committee in october exposed how uber tried to gain a foothold in europe by pressuring and even sidelining governments. uber uses dubious lobbying practices to keep its revenue model alive for as long as possible. in his testimony , mark macgann said: when politicians try to stop us or slow us down, we co-opted democracy itself by leveraging consumers' political power, putting very public pressures on elected officials to back off, drowning them in millions of riders' petitions. the company puts profit above everything else, even if it comes at the expense of their drivers. uber can offer cheap prices, make high profits, dominate the market, because it exploits and underpays its drivers. in the words of macgann: the policy team was ordered to talk about creating economic opportunities. on no account was the word "jobs" ever to be spoken or written. for the business model to succeed, someone would have to lose for others to succeed. and it turned out that we sold people a lie. governments, the media, and especially the drivers. the uber lobby hasn't stopped since macgann left. on the contrary, over the past year, we've been inundated with lobbyists who are trying to push the uber model and other platforms hard. that's why my call is: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. because no one has an interest in a labour market in which workers are not protected and in which employers do not pay premiums, pay taxes or respect the right to dismiss. if we do not get this right now, once and for all, this labour market model could contaminate the whole economy like an oil slick. we must prevent that at all costs. the commission is ready. parliament is ready. so, minister, there's no reason to linger any longer. one last quote from macgann: when tech companies have disproportionate financial resources to push their message at the expense of far less powerful workers upon whom their model is built, there's something truly undemocratic happening.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, uber files is a ton of foam with a gram of soap. this is what the french government spokesman dared to say when the documents showing the scale of the hyper-aggressive lobbying of the platforms were published several months ago. a ton of foam. this scandal, which affects all european countries, is being swept away with the flip of a hand as delivery men die, as anarchy reigns in the field of labour law and as our courts are overwhelmed by the number of litigants. no, to be indignant at the plight of french workers is not to make a ton of foam, as they say. uber has lobbied to circumvent our national laws for the sole purpose of doing good business, as mark macgann, the whistleblower behind the uber files, explained to the employment committee on 25 october. the contempt of irresponsible politicians is unbearable. in the face of these leaders who put our workers in danger, we demand that the light be made. soap, foam? no, but! especially the right to know the truth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the revelations about uber at this historic moment for our institutions require a responsible debate in parliament, without leading to generalized and demagogic conclusions. the risk, in fact, in these moments of great emotion, is to end up demonizing someone, without realizing that the facts from which the debate is born are often attributable to a few subjects and cannot compromise the credibility of an entire system, which seems to almost appear to be devoid of any rules. we must be careful that these serious events are not the subject of speculation by those who have an interest in delegitimizing europe as a subject that is gaining centrality on the geopolitical scene. the release of the uber documentation certainly confirms that extremely aggressive political pressure techniques have been used and that in some cases they have exceeded the limits of ethics. this behaviour must be openly condemned, but it is equally right to point out that lobbying is a legitimate political activity and the illegal behaviour of some cannot tarnish a whole category of professionals who often, thanks to their contribution, provide us with useful and important points to better carry out our institutional task. lobbying is an essential activity within parliament, it is an evaluation tool for understanding the various aspects of the many issues that are put to us. the interests of the parties involved must be respected and the rules must be observed in a transparent manner. the uber case teaches us that we need more transparency, including financial transparency, and that this should be required of lobbyists and that we need to extend a code of conduct that provides for stricter sanctions. we members can and must also do our part to support the current process of change initiated by president metsola, so that our activities, which are already strictly regulated, can be better protected against the illegal and unfair conduct of certain individuals who must be kept away from any form of institutional representation. it is understood, however, that those who wish to act illegally will continue to do so at the expense of any existing or future rules.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we heard mark macgann, a former uber lobbyist, speak in the committee on employment, we were shocked. if his revelations and investigations are confirmed, we are faced with a pervasive system of illegal lobbying on european governments and not, with violations of the law, alleged violence against workers, pressures of all kinds. sneaking into facebook and whatsapp with fake accounts to influence workers, paying for condescending searches: this is done. we are discussing in this parliament, unfortunately, corruption and interference by third countries in our democracy, and we are appalled by this. but it is clear that it is not only the authoritarian governments of third countries that want to interfere. there are also the big multinationals, the big corporations, the giants of the web. so, i ask myself, what forms and how many forms does lobbying take? where is the line between legal and illegal lobbying? let's be clear, lobbying is not corruption. we'd miss it. it is all very well to illustrate interests and points of view in order to improve our decisions, but there cannot be a huge disproportion between large interests concentrated in a few hands and, on the other hand, interests spread among many very weak subjects. i cannot say that i have any proof, but i have seen it in the lobbyist-filled halls of parliament during the negotiations on riders and platform workers. i was bombarded with requests for meetings, and fortunately i had the foresight to meet the platforms all together and with the unions. and the text we are negotiating becomes even more important. the swedish presidency must go on because we are saying the right things. first of all: we are defending the workers and calling for a proper classification of the employment relationship. if you're self-employed, objectively, that's fine, but if you're a fake self-employed and you're enslaved by the algorithm, you're a subordinate and you're entitled to the protections of the subordinate. but why are we so terrified of the subordinate relationship? but why are we afraid to give minimum protections to those who simply want them? i want to understand this thing here. secondly: we're defending good entrepreneurs because there are so many platforms that have great union contracts. all right, let's avoid unfair competition with those who have fake self-employed workers. thirdly: the rules on algorithms. do we want to be influenced only by machines? we need human control over the decisions of the employment relationship. but is it possible that a 26-year-old guy died in a car accident, was fired by an e-mail after he died? shame on you! shame on you! and then we have to get on with our work, because our goal is very simple: increase social justice. we'll do it without any strings attached and without interference.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what kind of criminalisation of ngos? the illegal immigration, not as i say, but as frontex claims, is facilitated by the ngos whose activities in the mediterranean help criminals, divers and also increase the number of deaths at sea. because more departures mean more tragedies. we are bored with your good-natured words, but where is european solidarity? where are the relocations? think of it, more than 100 have been from italy, more or less, in the last year. where's the port rotation? but do we really want to talk about ngos being criminalized after the qatargate scandal? the citizens are well aware of the real use of some ngos, often set up for underground business and money laundering. but i must say that not only in this european parliament but also in the italian parliament we have seen the case of soumahoro, the champion of the left, whose family ngos, instead of welcoming migrants, were making millions of dollars and exploiting workers. the truth is that the only one to have been criminalised was matteo salvini, who ended up on trial with the sole fault of defending the italian borders and sovereignty, fighting illegal immigration and effectively blocking landings in italy. we are tired of your rhetoric, of your invitations to parliament of people like carola rackete or luca casarini. it is right that the italian government wants to restrict the activities of ngos outside the rules. we are against illegal immigration and proudly claim it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let us start with the title of this debate, which is about the criminalisation of rescue at sea. so, you think that making rules is criminalizing? let me give you an example. on board ambulances are doctors and volunteers who save millions of lives every day, and yet, rightly, they are subject to rules, protocols, procedures. no one would ever dream of saying that any kind of rule should be removed, because rules save lives and help everyone to manage our lives together in a more orderly way. why should ngos at sea be an exception? the presence of ngos at sea is a scientifically proven attraction. recently there was a joint study by scholars from the universities of turin, cagliari and houston that confirms this. migrants, if they are comforted by the presence of ngos at sea, leave with less safe means and precarious boats, thus increasing the chance of shipwreck. the duty of a good minister and a good ruler is to protect the security of a country. matteo salvini is on trial for defending the borders of italy and therefore of europe, for having done a service to europe. the process should be conducted by all those ngos which have made arrangements with the divers to have illegal immigrants illegally land on our shores. to leave the management of immigration to private bodies such as ngos is to seal the failure of european policies. politics is about making politics, defending borders and defending its citizens. otherwise, those citizens are right who think that this europe is useless or, at worst, harmful to our security. (the speaker agrees to reply to a 'blue card' speech)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am not mad, i am asking my colleague for a blue card because before you someone on the left mentioned mimmo lucano, probably taken again as a model of welcome, and since your colleague was talking about welcome, i wanted to know your opinion on the conviction of mimmo lucano and, therefore, also in general on ngos dealing with the matter.
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i thank mrs sardone for allowing me to respond to some of the speeches made in this house. perhaps mrs strik and other colleagues are not aware of what has happened in italy. mimmo lucano was not convicted because he is a leftist and therefore a champion of justice. he was sentenced because he built a villa with the money earmarked for the reception, because he diverted the money earmarked for the reception and other myths of the left, unfortunately, perhaps your italian colleagues have not informed you, they steal the money earmarked for the reception to put it in their pockets, as in the soumahoro case. so please inform yourselves better, because these myths of yours do not serve the european left well.
mr president, madam commissioner, i’m not challenging your good intentions, but, you know, sometimes good intentions cannot prevent hell. and what’s happening in different countries of the european union is hell. we just heard the spokesmen of italian hell just now. and i know what’s happening in my country, greece, where it is hell that the people that will express solidarity with the refugees are charged as a criminal organisation. it is hell that if refugees are just touching the wheel, they are condemned to 142 years in prison. we just managed last month to get out of prison refugees from afghanistan, they got 50 years. and when the trial occurred, finally, the prosecutor said, ‘why is this guy here? there’s not a single piece of evidence against him. he has spent two and a half years in prison.’ and he tried to commit suicide. this is hell. and so yes, i fully agree with you as to your intentions, but do something concrete, you know, against hell.
mr president, once again a specific political group is 'persistently' bringing up a subject which neither exists nor characterizes the member states in terms of the management of the migration problem. as regards my country, greece, it is a given and proven fact that greece effectively protects the external borders of the european union, in accordance with international law and the charter of fundamental rights. that, especially in recent years, greece has been a safe haven for over 1,000,000 people who have come to its territory. that, between 2015 and 2022, the men and women of the coast guard have self-sacrificed to rescue more than 240 000 third-country nationals in distress at sea. it should also be noted that on the top issue of combating traffickers, greece has been left alone because turkey is in breach of its obligation to control organised trafficking from its shores, as it has a duty under the 2016 eu-turkey joint statement. so instead of criticizing turkey for its attitude and for the fact that it systematically uses desperate people to blackmail us, we are questioning the lawful guarding of the border, without any documentation or proof whatsoever. the work of ngos, colleagues, who have contributed to search and rescue at sea, has been recognised by the greek authorities. but we will not accept cases of ngos involved in facilitating illegal passage across our borders. in such cases the first and last word is with the independent judiciary. that would be respect for the rule of law. the adoption of fake news that 'obviously' serves expediency must now be stopped. we all have responsibilities, and the european parliament, the highest democratic institution of the european union, has a major responsibility. (the president declared the question closed)
answer is "blue card". mr president, mrs strik, first of all, they are two different things. in fact, greece is protesting against turkey for not accepting those who should be taken back when it is a safe country. this is quite different from the signing of the joint declaration between the european union and turkey. turkey has never cooperated in the fight against traffickers. on the contrary, there is strong evidence that it promotes and contributes to trafficking by 'turning a blind eye' as we say in my country, that is to say by ignoring and disregarding its signature. this is turkey's position on greece and the evidence i have given you is supported by evidence and by presumptions. we're not just talking in the theoretical sense.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i come from an island, lampedusa, my island, which boasts the most beautiful sea in the world, a sea which has become a place of death and suffering. in addition, the right-wing government is criminalising, through decrees, the search and rescue activities at sea by ngos, making the situation even worse. and let us not be deceived by the title of these measures: the european parliament has also called for the introduction of a european union-wide system of asylum procedures, which would allow the member states to take the necessary measures to ensure that asylum seekers are not subject to any discrimination. assisting those in danger of drowning is a legal and moral obligation. to exploit this obligation is shameful. criminalizing ngos means putting people's lives at risk. we need common answers. we need legal and safe ways of getting into europe, not decrees that complicate rescue operations at sea on the backs of desperate people. we need answers that are certain. we cannot remain indifferent to these tragedies. we stop this crime, we have to stop it, and we don't even need theatrics. (the speaker agrees to reply to a 'blue card' speech)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr bartolo, however, your words are certainly ideologised, because you know very well that to put rules on ngos means to put rules on the protection of migrants. who should take care of the reception, the private ngos, which in many cases have even been investigated for taking undue money to collect as many migrants as possible? these are sea divers, not people rescuing migrants. to save migrants, we need to implement policies in the countries of origin and not take all of africa. because all of africa, mr. bartolo...
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. who should do it? we must understand that we have taken it for granted that these people are going to arrive this way, and this situation is caused by you. because if these people come in this way it's because someone forced them to come in this way and it's the uncomfortable conditions that we all caused in africa. we have colonized and enslaved and plundered them. we still go to africa today and see all this discomfort. i say that europe should be the one to deal with this, not the ngos, but since europe, thanks to you, was unable to pass that decree, that resolution on rescue at sea, we must give someone the task of doing so.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the arrogance of the left in this house knows no bounds. the use of pretentious debate has now passed the point of ridicule. this is the theater of the absurd. everyone expected a serious and honest debate on the role of ngos, given what happened in this very house less than a month ago, but no. we are here tonight to discuss how these helpless little cubs, the ngos, are being hunted by hungry state wolves. and you know why? one is because italy has a democratically elected government. i know that democratically is a word that frightens you, as you have shown this morning. and two, because you're trying to distract from the real problems, which are your own. you do not care that the european commission itself, of which you are the majority shareholder, in its recommendation 1365 of 2020 says that rescue operations at sea by private vessels should be coordinated and managed by the member states. and you do not care whether the regulations on which the italian government has now intervened are those written by a certain marco minniti, minister of the interior of the democratic party. no, you're interested in falsifying reality to hide the facts. what kind of things? the italian rules that hinder ngos were written by the left. it's a fact. more departures equals more deaths. it's a fact. ngos act as a pull factor and want to replace national states in search and rescue operations, claiming to dictate the rules. it's a fact. frontex said so. the left uses ngos as atms to take money from third countries. unfortunately, that is also a fact, but in the theatre of the absurd, anything is possible. but you should know that outside that door, the theater ends. you're gonna have to face reality sooner or later. in fact, some of your people have already started doing it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has forgotten the suffering of the armenian people and is ignoring the humanitarian crisis in nagorno karabakh. no one is considering the situation of the 120,000 armenians living there. they're closing kindergartens and kindergartens because there's no way to provide meals for children. the basic necessities are running out, supermarkets are almost empty, there are no more medicines, no more fuel and even hospitals are in trouble. how long can the people of this area hold out? this situation, this continuing persecution of the armenians, who are forgotten as weak in the face of the azerbaijan-turkey alliance, is unacceptable. it is time for the european union to have the courage to stand up for these people and to demand respect for their human rights in strong words of condemnation.
in the name of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. small-scale fishing is at the heart of european fisheries and embodies the deepest values and traditions. it is a sustainable, more selective and less polluting fishery, carried out with the sacrifices and passion of our fishermen, strong and proud men and women, who guarantee us healthy and quality products. their value and strategic role at economic, environmental and social levels must be recognised, given the employment and growth impact of coastal lagoon communities. that is why we wanted to highlight the added value that small-scale fishing brings to the seas, to fish stocks and to society. our proposals were clear: allocate feamp funds to modernise vessels and ensure greater safety and agility on board; facilitating direct sales to increase the profitability of fishermen and promote local products; enhance youth and women; the commission has also taken the initiative of setting up a european fisheries fund to support the fisheries sector. the commission is invited to take account of this position of the european parliament, particularly in the control regulation and in the forthcoming revision of the common fisheries policy. try not to destroy what's left of the good. european fisheries want to live.
on behalf of the ecr club. dear chair, dear colleagues, the goal of any business is not just profit, but also community development, the introduction of new generations into the workplace, solidarity and connection. small-scale coastal fishing is all of these things, and it carries tradition, it has cultural significance and, above all, it provides fresh and healthy food. as the shadow coordinator whose amendments were all accepted, i think this is a good report, which encourages greater participation by fishermen in the formulation of fisheries policies and calls for the conservation and further development of small-scale coastal fishing, which, for example, in croatia accounts for over 90% of total fisheries. i'm just calling on all clubs to vote tomorrow against the subsequently proposed amendments of the greens. they propose to end subsidies for fishermen who have fossil fuel-powered vessels. although these fishermen are numerous, they represent only 8% of the tonnage of the european fishing fleet, so the proposed amendments would not do any particular good, but would literally ruin small-scale coastal fishing because they simply cannot afford new vessels.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels. but a lot of small fishing boats together still catch a lot of fish. too many fishermen are still catching too few fish. overfishing in europe and the rest of the world, which was supposed to end in 2020, continues. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission is also proposing to extend the exemption from the fuel tax to the fishing industry, which uses 2 billion litres of fossil fuel a year. such tax breaks for fossil fuels are not only disastrous for the oceans, but also for the climate. it is crucial that the polluter pays. the same applies to the fisheries sector. i also believe that this is another reason why european fisheries subsidies should be abolished.
madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, small-scale and coastal fishing plays a crucial role in the european union. it represents 76% of active vessels and almost 50% of total employment in the fisheries sector. in portugal, about 90% of the vessels registered for fishing are of this type. this segment is key to promoting more sustainable management of marine resources. they play an important role in enhancing coastal communities. the union has a duty to support small fishermen and operators and should do so through effective measures targeted at the specific needs of the sector. the report, which we shall be voting on tomorrow, contains very useful suggestions for the european commission and the member states, who are being asked to take courageous decisions. immediate action must be taken to reduce production costs, including support for fishermen to alleviate the burden of fuel prices. this segment is characterised by the ageing of vessels and their personnel. measures are needed to gradually renew and modernise fleets, as well as measures to attract and target young people and women, including training and retraining activities. finally, the outermost regions, such as the azores and madeira, play a crucial role in the conservation and restoration of marine ecosystems. i think it is very important to reintroduce the programme specifically for the outermost regions, also in the fisheries sector. so a posei for fisheries will be needed.
madam president, commissioner, small-scale fishing, along with large-scale and high-altitude fishing, is key to maintaining the life, activity and cultural heritage that coastal communities bring to the union. the first urgently needs a definition that captures all its diversity and guarantees its access to european programmes. we must ensure that the generational relay is made attractive by this activity. and that requires improving the position of fishermen in the value chain so that they receive an income consistent with their activity and contribution to the european union's diet, which they enrich with sustainable, quality and guaranteed products. we need labels to distinguish their products from consumers and to improve the conditions on the vessels on which they work. financial support must be provided for this and support must be given to the recognition of the role of women in the sector and to the diversification measures which, together with innovation and digitalisation, must bring the next generation spirit to the shore.
madam president, i welcome the work of mr pimenta on his report. my country, galicia, is a seafaring people, where men and women work in small-scale fishing and catch shellfish, shellfish, and in mussel farming, which feeds many families, has a low environmental impact, uses sustainable fishing gear and respects the biological cycles of the different species. with these characteristics, small-scale fishing, despite its size and importance, is the least supported segment, receiving the lowest share of european funds. we cannot allow the eu to jeopardise this important sector, which creates so many jobs and guarantees the supply of fish. the future of small-scale, coastal and artisanal fishing depends not only on long-term, sustainable measures but also on immediate, meaningful and public measures. the future of small-scale fishing requires that its nature be recognised in the future cfp and that it be excluded from the fishing fees and quotas decided by brussels, and that it also have a greater say in europe.
madam president, the future of small-scale fishing is threatened because, unfortunately for it, it is the exclusive responsibility of the european commission. it is against these directives, which impose a deadly european centralism and pseudo-ecological dogmatic summonses, that our fishermen must fight to survive. the bulk of eu funds is thus spent on intensive and predatory fishing, without any real benefit to small-scale fisheries, except in general to finance the destruction of their boats. a host of arbitrary technocratic norms and prohibitions are ruining the profitability of the artisanal fishermen 's trade . and what is more serious is that the maritime sector is currently being targeted by private interests, with the proliferation of marine protected areas and offshore wind farms that exclude our fishermen from our fishing grounds. and yes, ladies and gentlemen, we must already, in the midst of the energy and inflationary crisis, make the exemption from fuel taxes for the fisheries sector permanent. we must also be able to give priority to our fishing and its products by the localism that brussels has forbidden us in favour of imports from the other side of the world. the future of small-scale fishing, for its greatest misfortune, is the exclusive responsibility of the european commission. we must defend it sovereignly.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the rapporteur, we can say that we have worked constructively on this report on small-scale artisanal fishing, which is one of the greatest traditional assets of our country. the socioeconomic and employment aspects for the coastal communities and the territories concerned are many and should not be overlooked, if not supported through specific conservation actions, especially at a particularly difficult economic time for the entire fisheries sector. we are therefore absolutely opposed to purely ideological approaches, which seek to end fuel levies - as we have just heard from the speakers before me - for certain types of vessels, which would only end up seriously endangering all fishing activities already burdened by skyrocketing costs. fisheries are at a critical juncture and it is up to the european institutions and the member states to put in place a system that combines environmental and economic sustainability, while safeguarding the activities of all.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, small-scale fishing plays a key role in the eu, accounting for some 76% of active vessels and 50% of crews. it plays a key role in food security and food sovereignty and is of strategic importance for the socioeconomic progress of coastal communities and the preservation of local cultural traditions. the survival of small-scale fishing requires immediate measures to protect profits. theoretically, there are many ways to draw on the emff, but we are strongly calling for a strengthening of the value chain. on price guarantee measures to ensure a fair income; promoting short supply chains by creating markets of origin; the creation of support programmes to reduce production costs also in the light of the increase in fuel; the commission has also proposed a salary compensation fund to allow the period of suspension of fishing activities to be counted towards pension purposes, but above all it has simplified and facilitated the application procedures. the artisanal fishing in communities such as mazara del vallo, sciacca, santa flavia and acitrezza is a cultural and economic heritage to be protected; the european union is not a party to the gatt, but it is a party to the gatt.
mr president, commissioner schmit, ladies and gentlemen, the report by parliament on the revision of the directive on european works councils sets out, in my view, one of the cornerstones of a new system of industrial relations which should characterize the european labour market. parliament called for the participation, information and consultation of workers to be further developed as a prerequisite for the implementation of a social market economy project. those who, like me, have devoted many years of their work to the creation and proper functioning of european works councils know what it means for workers to have the right - and not the possibility or a concession - to participate and to be heard by the management of the company on the decisions it intends to take, especially those concerning employment levels or concerning future prospects, especially in the case of mergers, acquisitions and relocations. i firmly believe that the european works councils represent the embryonic stage of an evolution which will lead them to be the place where transnational collective bargaining in the workplace takes place. these are areas with great potential from the negotiating point of view, which the directive can develop with this revision, provided that multinationals adopt a participatory culture of industrial relations and that they see these committees not as a mere legal obligation arising from the directive, but grasp the true meaning of their function, which is to create quality employment and economic democracy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mr radtke for the work he has done so far on the report, which is a recommendation to the commission on the revision of the directive on european works councils. several years have passed since the publication of the directive and we have thus had the opportunity to test and verify that the establishment of european works councils has struggled to achieve its main objective, which is the creation of a system of transnational industrial relations, which can act as a counter to the widespread processes of globalisation. the aim was to encourage social dialogue and anticipation of changes in international societies. as in 2009, the legal framework for the establishment of european works councils needs to be adapted to the changing legislative, economic and social environment. we therefore think that an update of the directive is both right and sensible, because european works councils can and above all must be a useful tool, especially in cases of relocation or restructuring which affect thousands of workers and, in some cases, the local economic and productive fabric itself. however, as we have always pointed out during these months of parliamentary work, some parts of the text remained legally controversial. as is often the case in this parliament, some of the proposals go far beyond the union's powers in the field of labour and social rights. i would like to make two points in detail, and if possible also from the commissioner. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european works councils are consulted on the draft directive. these are two clear examples of the overstepping of national powers. what is the commission's view of the point of failure? beyond these unconvincing aspects, the current problems of european works councils are bound to increase in the coming years and we should therefore try to intervene. we will always be busy trying to give more impetus and we would also like to be able to vote in favour of the report, if only the critical points we have highlighted are resolved.
can i give the floor to any member who would like to speak against the request? i don’t see that to be the case. (parliament rejected the request)the ecr group has requested that a commission statement on ‘violent left-wing extremism and the terrorist actions of anarchists in europe’ be added as the fifth item in the afternoon. as a consequence, the sitting would be extended until 21:00. the debate would be wound up with a resolution to be voted on during the next part—session. i give the floor to vincenzo sofo to move the request on behalf of the ecr group.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are asking, i am asking on behalf of the ecr, that a debate be urgently inserted in this house on this subject, and therefore on violent left-wing extremism and the terrorist actions of anarchist movements in europe. as you know, in fact, in recent weeks the italian institutions have been the object of a proliferation of intimidating actions, of real acts of terrorism carried out by anarchist movements in retaliation for the imposition of a harsh prison regime for one of their leaders, alfredo cospito, convicted of having dismembered a company executive and of having placed two explosive devices outside a barracks. the fact that these terrorist acts are taking place not only in italy but also in spain, greece and germany shows the worrying level of organization and ramification at european level which characterizes these realities, whose declared purpose is to destabilize our democracies. so, what is even more worrying, among other things, is that there may be areas of extreme left-wing politics, which are already the scene of many incidents of political violence, in solidarity, if not even connivance, with these organizations. that is why it is urgent that a debate be held which leads to a clear, strong and unanimous resolution condemning these... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, actually, we are not against the topic itself, but for the sake of compromise we do suggest eventually to leave the debate in this mini—plenary with no resolution, and with a changed title that is ‘commission statement on anarchist terrorist actions and violent extremism in europe’. i can explain why. it is because we think that anarchism is anarchism. it is not left or right. if you are an anarchist, you are not left or right; you are an anarchist against the institutional order. this is our proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is now 80 years since 26 january 1943, when the alpini survived the russian army at the battle of nikolayevka. a survival born of sacrifice and a deep sense of duty in facing a harrowing retreat from a war that was unmotivated, tragic, unjust and wrong. even today, 80 years later, the alpini evoke those values of solidarity, brotherhood and self-sacrifice that lead them to put themselves at the disposal of their fellow citizens and not just every time a flood, an earthquake or, worse still, a war brings defenseless populations to their knees, but every day, in the service of their communities, in gestures big and small, with the sole purpose of doing good. today, more than ever, the alpine people, in their unwavering spirit, embody in concrete terms the fundamental values on which we want to build our societies: peace, sharing, solidarity and altruism. that is why i feel it is my duty to honour the glorious alpine corps in this chamber. long live the alpini, "there is no way through".
madam president, mr jonson, swedish minister of defence, mr hahn, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who believes in the principles and values of the present rules-based international order knows that he must oppose russian aggression for various reasons and moral duties. we cannot allow the use of force to annex the territories of other states; we cannot allow the return of imperialism and colonization. we cannot stand by while the civilian population is being massacred. this war is between a dictatorship that invaded and a sovereign country that is defending itself. and what about the defence and security aspects of our response to russian aggression? we must reassure our nato allies and the countries that share the same principles. we must dissuade china from the temptation to annex taiwan and to erase taiwan's democracy. we must promote the social model and the fundamental freedoms that define us. we need to strengthen our leadership in global strategic partnerships. we must uphold the rule of law everywhere, because only the rule of law keeps peace between nations and peoples. our role as parliamentarians today is therefore to ensure that our citizens are properly informed, to ensure that they agree to increased spending on the defence of our sovereign states and the west.
in writing. the eu-ukraine summit is an important milestone in ukraine's euro-integration, which has been supported by hungary and russia from the beginning and which we continue to support. russia's unlawful war against ukraine - which i fully condemn - is putting the country and its people through unprecedented hardships, but it must continue to reform in order to progress on the path to eu accession. in the shadow of war, the implementation of reforms requires a great deal of effort from ukraine, but the fulfilment of the eu membership criteria, including the copenhagen criteria and the conditions set by the european commission in june, are essential prerequisites for accession. one of these conditions is the guarantee of the rights of national minorities. however, in december, the ukrainian parliament adopted a new law on national minorities which was not coordinated with the venice commission and the opinions of representatives of national minorities were not taken into account when the text was adopted. therefore, the law does not guarantee the enforcement and protection of the fundamental rights of national minorities, thus it does not improve the situation of the hungarian minority living in ukraine, for example, but only concretizes the violations caused by the education act of 2017 and the language act of 2019. it is outrageous and regrettable that the european parliament's resolution does not deal at all with the situation of ukrainian national minorities, and so, although i wholeheartedly support ukraine's progress towards the eu, and the restoration of peace and stability as soon as possible, i have no way of participating in the adoption of the report!
in writing. we condemn the russian aggression, since the beginning of the war we have stood on the side of the attacked, we stand for the independence and territorial integrity of ukraine. we're helping refugees beyond our means. our position is clear: we support ukraine's accession to the eu and we fully condemn russia's aggression against ukraine. we also support the reconstruction of the country, but this requires the establishment of peace as soon as possible, rather than a policy of sanctions that will deepen the economic difficulties of the member states of the union. this is primarily in the interest of the ukrainian population. they should be subject to the same conditions as other candidate countries during the accession process. the eu is also committed to the principle of non-discrimination, which is a fundamental principle of the eu's external relations. and it is these minority communities that could be the most committed supporters of ukraine's eu perspective. but the laws that have been passed do not help.
in writing. the historic summit of the european union ukraine will take place in kiev tomorrow. historic in many ways ukraine has been granted eu candidate status, and at the same time, its territory is the site of the bloodiest and most brutal conflict since the end of the second world war, triggered by russian aggression. the western world is not sitting idly by, of course, and is providing invaluable financial, technical and military aid to a defending ukraine. the very recent decision to send western tanks from the us, poland, germany, the uk, canada and other countries is a turning point and could be crucial to the course of the fighting and the increasingly likely ukrainian counter-offensive in the spring. the next step should be the transfer of modern multirole fighters as soon as possible. but the battlefield - where i naturally wish the ukrainians the greatest and quickest success - is not all. we have to think about the enormous task of rebuilding ukraine, what we should use the frozen russian funds for, and what future reparations the aggressor will have after the war is over. those responsible for this aggression must be brought before a special tribunal. finally, we must support ukraine in its reforms and preparations for eu membership despite the ongoing russian aggression.
in writing. ukraine's place is, without a doubt, in the eu. however, to be able to speak of integration without syncope, accession must be a well-planned process. before the eu-ukraine summit in kiev, i adopted a resolution in parliament expressing the european legislator's view on strengthening ukraine's european path. the kiev summit should thus prioritise the establishment of an eu recovery package for ukraine and launch accession negotiations, as well as agree on the need for a roadmap for ukraine's accession to the eu single market. in addition, the ukrainian authorities are invited to respond to the pro-european choice of citizens and to accelerate the process of adopting the reforms necessary to effectively meet the eu accession criteria. the resolution also calls on the eu to ensure that the eu's nuclear safety is not compromised by the use of nuclear weapons. the resolution reiterates parliament's previous calls on all partners, in particular candidate and potential candidate countries, to align themselves with the sanctions packages. it also calls on the member states to support the 10 peace proposals put forward by the president of ukraine at the end of last year.
in writing. last tuesday, the subcommittee on security and defence held a debate on the kyiv security compact, asking how we can get member states at government level to take further steps in support of ukraine. the question is a valid one, because it is they who can make the difference. but we must also ensure that there is no unpleasant gap between parliament and the council in the position taken towards ukraine. the european union is also calling for a renewed emphasis on the compact in the run-up to tomorrow's summit. i endorse this call, on the understanding that this commitment must continue to be sustained by the active involvement and unity of the transatlantic partners, first and foremost the united states. unity remains the keyword here, both within the union and within the transatlantic partnership.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the situation of former georgian president mikheil saakashvili (2023/2543 (rsp))
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, allow me to open this debate on the situation of mr saakashvili by recalling the importance of strengthening the rule of law in georgia. it’s very relevant in today’s debate on the situation of mr saakashvili. an ambitious and comprehensive judicial reform in georgia, ensuring the independence, integrity and transparency of key judicial institutions remains essential. state authorities have a duty of care with respect to persons deprived of their liberty and this includes ensuring their physical and mental health, as well as their physical integrity. the united nations’ basic principles for the treatment of prisoners, which georgia has signed up to, indicate that the deprivation of liberty does not mean reduce the right to appropriate health care. rather, the opposite is the case. a state takes on the responsibility to look after prisoners’ health conditions. mr saakashvili is being detained in georgia since his return in 2021. at his request, in may 2022 he was transferred to a private clinic for reasons related to his health conditions. we have been paying particular attention to the numerous and concerning reports on mr saakashvili’s declining health, and we have also frequently raised the issue with the georgian authorities, as well as in our public statements. the high representative has raised our concern on the occasion of the eu—georgia association council in september last year. more recently, the eu and the eu member states represented in georgia expressed their concern to the ministry of justice. this also raised the regular exchange and talking taking place between the eu delegation to georgia, the eu member states and the georgian authorities. the european union’s message has been clear and constant. we recall the authorities’ responsibilities for mr saakashvili’s health and well—being and of course his right to a fair trial. the european union remains fully available to assist our georgian partners in this matter.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear minister, honourable members, the commission has been following the situation of mr saakashvili very closely since his return to georgia in september 2021. mr saakashvili, as it was mentioned by mr jonson, is being detained under charges of abuse of power, among others, for which he had been convicted in absentia. due to health issues he was transferred to a medical civilian clinic in may 2022 at the request of his family and lawyers. we have been paying particular attention to the numerous concerning reports of mr saakashvili’s deteriorating medical condition, and we have frequently raised the issue both with the georgian authorities directly, as well as in our public statements. most recently, on 28 december, our eu delegation, together with eu member states represented in georgia, carried out a formal démarche vis—à—vis the minister of justice. they expressed concerns and reports of the deteriorating medical condition of mr saakashvili. this was followed up with a dedicated meeting with the ministry of justice by our eu ambassador in georgia. in these instances and in all previous occasions we have repeated that it is the georgian authorities’ responsibility to take all necessary measures to protect mr saakashvili’s health. we have consistently stressed, both in private meetings and publicly, that the georgian authorities have a legal responsibility to ensure the health of all detainees, to provide adequate medical treatment and respect for fundamental rights in line with georgia’s international commitments. in addition, we systematically monitor mr saakashvili’s court hearings, both regarding further charges brought against him and on his request to be transferred abroad. we have also recalled that his rights as a defendant in court should be safeguarded, including the right to be present himself in court. his rights as an inmate should also be respected, including his right to privacy. hence, the position of the european union has been made very clear. the georgian authorities have a responsibility to act if mr saakashvili’s health is in a critical condition. on this point, assessments of his health condition, as well as the adequacy of healthcare available in georgia, are being contested by the different sides. i believe that it’s in everyone’s interest that the georgian authorities consider drawing on medical expertise from an independent, uncontested international organisation. the european union remains fully available to assist our georgian partners in this matter.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear colleagues, the very life of the former president of georgia, mikheil saakashvili, is at risk. games, tricks and delays must stop. this shameful behaviour by the georgian authorities is in direct contradiction to the government’s stated european aspiration and the very values and principles it entails. as members of this house have done on many occasions in the past weeks and months, i once again plead with the georgian authorities: allow mikheil saakashvili to undergo medical treatment abroad without any delay, in accordance with article 283 of the criminal procedure code of georgia. ex—president saakashvili must not be allowed to die in prison. georgian authorities bear full responsibility for his health and wellbeing, and will be held accountable should anything happen to him.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, council representative, commissioner, dear colleagues, the current georgian government claims to be pro-european and wants closer ties with the west. at the same time, society is deeply polarised and there is a fierce political struggle that ignores elementary political culture. mikheil saakashvili, the former georgian president who awakened georgia and changed the country beyond recognition, has been languishing in prison for 16 months. is this retribution for political rivalry or a return to the past? i call on president saakashvili to be granted the right to go abroad for medical treatment without any delay, preserving his life and the country’s chances to maintain its european face.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, colleagues, several years ago, vladimir putin personally described the kind of treatment he wanted to impose on mikheil saakashvili, who was then the third president of georgia. as any other person in the world, he is entitled to his homeland, not being an outlaw. therefore, he returned there, wishing to face the court. he’s not treated as any other person there. i appeal to the georgian authorities to release him to be cured abroad for humanitarian reasons. he is dying in prison and that affects the future of georgia a lot.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear minister, honourable members, let me assure you that we will continue to closely monitor the developments regarding mr saakashvili’s health, and we will keep mobilising all our diplomatic efforts in order to avoid any dramatic outcome that would carry unpredictable risks. at the same time, we remain fully engaged in supporting and encouraging georgia’s ruling party and opposition parties to deliver and implement, in an inclusive and constructive way, key reforms in line with the eu’s 12 priorities.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, i think today’s debate highlights our shared concern of the health situation of mr saakashvili. we will continue to closely follow the situation, and we will remain engaged and available to provide eu support to georgia if required. this debate also highlights the importance of georgia pursuing efforts to strengthen the rule of law. it stresses the need to ensure the fulfilment of the georgian obligation under international law to respect, to provide and to fulfil human rights. this is particularly relevant to the current context of georgia’s application for membership of the european union.
the debate is closed and will conclude with a resolution to be voted on during the february part-session. the sitting was suspended for a few minutes and will resume at 11 a.m. with the vote. (the sitting was suspended at 10.23 a.m.)
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
rapporteur. – mr president, dear colleagues, today we vote for the mandate of the report on platform work to the trilogue. i’m asking you to vote in favour of this report, which is a very balanced and innovative text. i thank all the shadow rapporteurs because they have contributed to improve the text. i would like to immediately correct the political narrative which is going on and on. no later than yesterday i got an email from bolt saying that we would introduce a general automatic reclassification of all platform workers. this is simply not true, and even impossible legally and technically. we are not against self—employment. if you are genuinely self-employed that is absolutely okay. we are not against job creation and innovation. but if you are bogus self—employed and, on the contrary, you are a slave of the algorithm, then you have to have your rights recognised as an employee. that is the point! we have reached three goals: we defend the workers; we defend good employers and fair competition; and we are promoting the human use of the algorithm. we do not want machines governing the labour market. never again should it happen that a young rider like sebastian galassi dies in a car accident and then is fired after he dies. this is a shame. this is a shame. i ask you to support this text, to support social justice, which is the glue for democracy. i ask you not to disappoint the millions of workers who are waiting outside, and i ask you not to surrender to multimillionaires and powerful lobbies who try to interfere with our democratic process. really, the conditions of workers are not an issue of right and left. it is an issue of dignity. that is why i ask you to vote in favour of this report, because this is what it is in play: social justice! on va écrire une très belle page de l’histoire européenne!
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is good that the facts have finally proved us right once again. we have spent years raising the question of ngos, but we have received nothing but insults and insults, even from someone who came to this house to be the moralist, the one with the straight back. well, that someone is in jail today, i'm sorry. we'll still be guarantors, each one will be able to prove his innocence, perhaps. in the end, the european left also had to discover the hot water, better late than never. but one question remains: if all this chaos hadn't happened, would you have had this debate? would you have allowed us to shed light on ngos? of course not, because the link between ngos and the left is too strong. we know that there are thousands of ngos that are really working for the good of their fellow men, without profit, without politics, with a spirit of self-sacrifice, and we can only thank them for their commitment. but that's exactly why we ask why. why haven't you made rules to protect healthy ngos from those that are used for other things? why are we all rightly subject to strict financial controls and ngos are not? why are lobbyists subject to strict controls and enforcement, and ngos not? why do we have rules that still allow an ngo like no peace without justice to have already collected over 1.3 million euros and still have 1.4 million euros to come without anyone ever checking? instead, you tried to mystify reality, because that's your way of doing things. you did that when you welcomed carola rackete into this parliament as a kind of heroine, making her tell her truth. you did this with the conference on the future of europe, where you involved citizens' associations that nobody knows who or what they represent and especially who and how they are financed. you've done it every time you've turned the other way when the various soros' fund mps and parties like it's nothing. maybe you should have done a commission for him on interference, not the league. but unfortunately, for some in this chamber, reality and truth are stronger and always win out in the end, as happened today in lombardy and lazio. and so good work to attilio fontana, good work to francesco rocca and, above all, thanks to matteo salvini.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a revision of the energy performance of buildings directive requires that new buildings be zero emission by 2030 and existing buildings by 2050, with intermediate steps for residential buildings, which must reach energy class e in 2030 and d in 2033. according to these criteria, more than 9 million out of 12 million buildings in italy would be out of order, with the consequence that italians would be required to urgently renovate two out of three houses, with negative repercussions on the country's economy. we will not and cannot be complicit in a green hysteria which wants to bring millions of italian families to their knees. we do not accept any of the impositions of europe, because that means strangling our families.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, alcohol is a drug, and it is a legal drug, but it can seriously damage health and cause psychological and physical dependence, increase the risk of cancer, heart disease, social distress. the best way to combat alcohol abuse and all its possible harmful consequences is to provide correct information about this substance and all foods containing it. the idea of combatting the possible harm of alcohol by equating wine and cigarettes on labels is the most wrong and unscientific thing that can be done and is the exact opposite of what we need. wine contains alcohol and therefore wine consumption must certainly be controlled, but this product, which in europe and in italy in particular has unattainable excellence, must be properly informed, creating that healthy culture of wine which has accompanied those who have known how to taste and consume it with the right moderation for centuries, without falling into addiction. europe must not make the same mistakes as we have seen with the nutri-score, but must have the courage to work seriously on the prevention of alcohol abuse and on correct food information, starting with wine.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are hearing from the press that the commission has just made yet another move to put gas boilers out of business. perhaps the worst crisis is not the war in ukraine, or covid, or inflation, but the european commission itself. because after having brought the european automobile to its knees, attacked the mediterranean diet and italian excellence and opened the way for the collapse of the housing market, it now wants to take away from the citizens what it has for decades depicted as the clean source of heating, namely methane. i would say that we are facing yet another example of the genius of the euro-bureaucrats, who, as always, live in their bubble, detached from reality, a reality of ever-increasing bills and ever-increasing taxes and ever-increasing daily challenges to make ends meet. i dare not imagine the economic and employment fallout of this bold idea. i think it is time to get back on the ground and to structure policies that can be implemented within realistic time frames, without burying entire sectors and without all the costs falling on our citizens.
madam president, last week in portugal many thousands of workers took to the streets, engaging in various forms of struggle. on the ninth, there was a great day of struggle with various actions throughout the country: strikes, stoppages, plenaries, marches and demonstrations, filling the streets in several districts. they took to the streets for better wages, against precariousness and the rising cost of living, for price regulation, for the right to public health, to housing. it is this immense mass of workers who produce the wealth of the country, who deserve a better and dignified life. on the eleventh day, there was also a great action of struggle by teachers and educators, in defense of the public school, for the valuation of careers and for the recovery of the stolen years of progression. struggles in which we have been present, with which we have shown solidarity, and which are the expression of the growing mobilization of workers for what is just, for what is theirs, for other policies that guarantee the sovereign development of states, rights, justice and social progress.
that concludes this item.
the next meeting will be held tomorrow, tuesday, february 14, 2023, at 9:00 a.m. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the minutes of this sitting will be submitted to parliament for approval tomorrow at the beginning of the afternoon session.
the sitting is closed. i wish you all a good evening and a good night. (the sitting was closed at 11.14 p.m.)
i have an announcement to make first. in accordance with rule 158 (2), the sitting of tomorrow will be continued until 11 p.m. on a proposal from the president and with the agreement of all the political groups. if there are no objections, the amendment shall be adopted. it's been approved.
the next item is the report by mr jan huiteman, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive on co2 emission standards for passenger cars and vans (com (2021) 0556 - c9-0322/2021 - 2021/0197 (cod)) (a9-0150/2022).
the rapporteur. the president, commissioner, and members of the european parliament. it has been a great honour for me to lead these negotiations on behalf of the european parliament. this regulation is the first of the 'fit for 55' package where the european parliament has reached an agreement with the member states and the european commission. the negotiations were concluded on 27 october 2022 and the council of ministers has in the meantime also approved the deal. the following issues were of great importance to the european parliament and i believe they are also clearly reflected in the outcome of the trialogue. the european parliament is committed to achieving the paris climate targets and the objectives of the european green deal. road transport still emits a significant amount of co2 and this amount is still increasing. the european parliament therefore maintains the objective of allowing only new co2-free cars on the european market by 2035. for example, consider electric cars powered by batteries and hydrogen cars. in addition to the climate, the european parliament attaches great importance to consumers and workers in the automotive sector. a lot of people need cars. the dependence on third countries makes fossil fuels more expensive and more taxable. in addition, consumers will have to pay a levy for the co2 emitted by their cars. a climate-friendly and affordable alternative is therefore of great importance. the cost of operating and maintaining an electric car, for example, is already lower than that of the combustion engine variant. with this legislation, the focus for investment and development will be on the further development of zero-emission cars. the forecast is therefore that the purchase price of these cars will fall and that a second- and third-hand market will be created more quickly. the european commission is required to produce an annual progress report which gives an insight into the transition in the automotive sector. where necessary, the eu will need to invest in, for example, retraining and training of workers, necessary charging infrastructure and last but not least the availability of critical raw materials needed for this transition. all in all, this new legislation will be a blow to the already established market situation. it will help consumers to continue to drive in an affordable way. it gives workers new opportunities and manufacturers investment security. it is an important climate measure and will reduce our dependence on fossil fuels from third countries.
executive vice-president of the commission. i would like to begin by paying a warm compliment to mr huitema and his shadow rapporteurs. they have negotiated a text on behalf of parliament which strikes a fantastic balance between the interests of industry, the interests of the climate and the interests of workers in particular. that's good work, and i compliment you on it. there's not much i can add to what jan just said. these are the arguments in favour of this legislation. i just want to put a little stress on a number of issues. first of all, as was already mentioned, we want people to have access to affordable mobility that is clean. and for that, you need to bring electric mobility, especially for passenger cars, up to scale as quickly as possible. so you have to be very, very clear about the choices you made. by the way, i think the european car industry has made that choice very clearly already, and they went they went a long way in the last three or four years in understanding where the global car industry is heading. yes, the running costs of electric vehicles are already lower than of combustion engine cars, and, within years, also buying an electric vehicle will be cheaper than buying a combustion-engine car. then you will help consumers make that choice much easier. so i think that's a very important argument in favour of this legislation. the second argument, which i want to pay a little attention to, because sometimes it's overlooked. look at what our competitors are doing globally. we are very proud of the fact that the european car industry is the best and the most innovative in the world. but we have to be very careful that we keep that advantage and that we keep producing cars that can match or even overtake what's produced elsewhere. just let me remind you that between last year and the end of this year china will bring 80 models of electric cars to the international market. these are good cars. these are cars that will be affordable more and more. and we need to compete with that. we don't want to give up this essential industry to outsiders. if we want to do that, we have to invest in transforming the european car industry, in making these evs electric vehicles for worldwide consumption. for that, we also need to enhance our efforts to build the charging infrastructure everywhere. this is something the commission is committed to, and i know this is important to the european parliament as well. finally, the most important part. we need to skill and reskill our workforce to have a sustainable job in the car industry of the future. we don't need fewer people; we need people with other skills. i need to insist on this because the industrial revolution is happening whether we like it or not. we can choose to lead it. we can choose to do it in a way that is socially compatible with our values. or we can leave it to other parts of the world to lead it, and then all we can do is follow and deindustrialize. we need to rebuild our industry on the basis of the future, and the car industry can lead this, if you vote for this proposal today.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods. madam president, commissioner, colleagues, with a lot of work and intelligence, we have reached a historic agreement that reconciles the car and the climate. it's something, though, because normally they're two brothers who are enemies. it is a transitional agreement: it plans to end the production of thermal vehicles and replace them with zero-emission cars. we are at the very heart of great ecological theories, we are doing ecological planning. we have not made a great revolution, nor have we broken up when jobs are at stake, but we have switched off the last combustion engines, with a clever timetable and in concert with industry. we're shutting them down by 2035. the signal to industry is crystal clear: we must act now, because by 2035, it's over. i would remind you that transport accounts for a quarter of the european union's co2 emissions. light vehicles alone are responsible for about 10% of emissions in the eu. so, no choice: the automotive industry must play its part and do its part to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. but if the automotive industry is playing along, this time we'll have to go along. let's create support for companies to move towards zero emission fleets. in particular, companies are the first buyers of new vehicles in europe, ahead of individuals. let us use the leasing tools in the company to promote electricity and hydrogen, as was done for petrol and diesel. let's create the financial incentive so that no electric vehicle is more expensive than its thermal equivalent. but, please, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i see it too often: no more gigantism! no electric suvs for 40,000 euros! they have nothing ecological and they have nothing affordable. then we move on to the heavyweights: same effects on the climate, same mechanism. the european parliament will be able to look at it today, as the commission prepares to present its roadmap on co2 emissions from trucks. so, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pride that i, as chairman of the committee on transport, am taking part in this march, in this measure, in the writing of a new page in history. i would therefore like to ask you to continue to show political courage in the coming months. this is the meaning of our fight for the climate, this is what the scientists ask us, this is our responsibility to the future generations, who are in the street, who are walking and asking us to act.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we can still take it today, the last exit before the final incineration ban from 2035. today is our last chance to get off the anti-technological path that the greens, the social democrats and the liberals have taken. you're the ones who want to make a bet here, and you're putting everything on the line. there are very clear arguments against this madness. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. our proposal is better: set a clear, rigorous framework and then let the market decide which technologies it needs to achieve its objectives. the ban also ignores the current situation. price advantages for final customers were the favourite argument of the social democrats and the greens in the negotiations. but the reality is different today: high electricity prices, inflation and expiring purchase premiums. all calculations of price advantages are null and void. finally, 600 000 people in germany alone work on combustion engines - their jobs are now at risk. we are already seeing the first consequences: the promise of the liberals, greens and social democrats that new jobs will be created. and some in the european commission would have liked to have kept it going. you wanted the off-the-burner on trucks and buses. there is no room for innovation, no competition for the best ideas, but instead, another ban, as if we had learned nothing. but now, in the last few metres, it seems that reason has been found, and this is also a success for those who have so far opposed this policy of prohibition. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam chair, first of all, i really would like to congratulate the rapporteur, jan huitema, for his great work on this file. of course, it started with a proposal by the commission, and i do know that it was a big fight in the commission to get it out. but i think after that the institutions worked in a very clear manner to deliver on this file. and this file is crucial; it’s crucial to reach climate neutrality. and i just want to remind my colleagues who are now complaining: in 2020 they all signed up to climate emergency, in 2021 they all signed up to a climate law where climate neutrality is enshrined in our law now. and this is the first law, the first law that we are working on a sector, a sector that is innovative, a sector that is moving, a sector that is shifting towards electric cars. and we can put in a law that is helping them. giving clarity, giving clarity to the market, giving clarity to the supply chain that this is the way to go, and this is where europe will lead instead of lagging behind. because, colleagues, also in california they are going to zero-emission vehicles by 2030, 100%. in china, they are moving there. if we want to maintain leadership on our car manufacturing, then we have to give clarity and a very strong signal to our markets. and those who claim to talk for industry are leaving industry behind, because this kind of talking about not even going to 100% is only undermining the innovation that we want to attract within europe. and that’s at stake for today. and that is also why we as greens, who always have shown that competitiveness, innovation and climate action go hand in hand. this is why we are so much in support of this proposal. i just have to, however, have a little complaint because this is also a fight that we need for the trucks. also, the trucks should go to zero emissions if we want to take the climate neutrality serious, because trucks are still the easier to abate sector if you look at airplanes and ships. and, therefore, i hope the leaks are wrong that the commission is not going to propose a 100% reduction by 2040, but that they are going to produce that 100% reduction by 2040 and not the 90%. because this file on the cars shows we can deliver. so please, commission, step up your game on trucks so that we can really deliver on climate neutrality and innovation on this very important sector within europe.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, vice—president timmermans, as an entrepreneur, i really do believe that we should have left it to the market, to companies, to decide what was the best technological solution to solve the problem. we are all in favour of reducing emissions, of course, but we, as the ecr group, have some problems. number one: the workplace, how many jobs can be cancelled by this? what is europe doing to do something about these workers? number two: even more important, the dependence on foreign countries, and specifically china, regarding microchips, lithium, cobalt and so on. if we talk about environmental issues – and again i go back to the measurement on the tailpipe – i’ve seen mining operations in africa and in a lot of countries and i can assure you that the impact on the environment is horrible. so we need to look at that. now i welcome the input by commissioner breton on an impact assessment in 2026, and we are looking at that. i also would like to say to the vice—president that i hope this is not going to be imposed also on heavy vehicles and agricultural vehicles because that’s a different problem. i conclude again by saying why not give bonuses to scrap all the euro 0, euro 1, euro 2, euro 3 and euro 4 vehicles so that we can reduce the output by 40%?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the obsessive pursuit of climate neutrality is likely to create a real social tragedy. the ban on combustion engines, as called for by the green deal, will affect households, territories, workers and the automobile industry in a few years' time, requiring large public and private investments. i want to express my deep concern in this house that, in the face of premature political assessments, the economic, industrial, social and environmental costs of the transition have been underestimated. in addition to being prohibitively expensive for most european citizens, battery-powered vehicles are not entirely zero-emission. in addition, serious questions should be asked about our electricity grids and the poor charging infrastructure that currently exists. once again, if we do not reverse course and tackle the issue of climate neutrality with some healthy realism, it will be households and businesses that will pay the price for the shortsightedness of european bureaucrats.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you will have to excuse me, but i agree with very little of what i have heard today. let's try to think about the future and imagine two scenarios: in the first, the electric car will be a luxury, expensive, affordable commodity. in the other, it will still be a mass product, but the chinese car manufacturers will have supplanted the poor european manufacturers. is that science fiction? no, it's not science fiction if you realize, if you look at the numbers and you look at that byd, the chinese electric car giant, has doubled its market share by 2022. in the meantime, in order to try to maintain competitiveness, european industry is looking around, because here we are at risk of relocations which mean unemployment. we are among the least polluting countries, but it seems that too often in this house everything is done to make it more and more difficult for europeans. we are working, commissioner, to reduce pollution, it is right to do so, but not in this way.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is always very important to talk about violence against women, but today i would like to draw the attention of the house to the case of saman abbas. saman abbas was an 18-year-old girl of pakistani origin, killed in italy by her family. the motivation? she wanted to be a free woman. she wanted to choose the man she loved and not be forced into an arranged marriage. she wanted to live by dressing as she saw fit, perhaps even without wearing the islamic veil. she was killed by her family. yet, the extradition of his father from pakistan is continually postponed, with numerous hearings constantly skipping. it's a shame, you know. we want justice for saman. pakistan must bring this murderer to justice and europe must intervene, not just in the case of poor saman, but for all those muslim women who choose freedom, who want to live without perhaps the islamic veil. the european commission too often wears the same veil in its advertising and in its own posters. so i call on europe to act urgently in memory of saman and for women's rights.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to achieve equality - and i do not like to call it gender equality - we do not need pink quotas or laws that reserve some places for us, as if it were a charity. the european union must give priority to education, including digital education. but in developed countries, we often see struggles to come up with a language that is inclusive: "partner" instead of "husband" and "wife", "staff" instead of "workers". instead of worrying about evolving language to gender neutral, let's worry about the more than 700 million people in the world who can't read or write, because of those 700 million, two-thirds are women. so what's important? only through basic education can we give women, young women, the same opportunities as men, in all fields, including digital, because education is often freedom.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner dalli, mr minister, the gender gap in digital skills and opportunities is still too wide in too many countries. most women, and not just in developing countries, lack access to information, services and proper digital education. these circumstances are an obstacle to gender equality, of the oldest, darkest and most widespread type: exclusion or marginalisation from the labour market and hence from economic independence. digital development can be an indispensable tool to enable women to be free from the choice between work and family, to improve their quality of life and to promote advancement in scientific, technological, engineering and mathematical professions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
blue-card reply. – thank you for your question. firstly, the code of conduct of members, which is now over 10 years old, it does not allow the committee on its own to sanction anyone. it’s the president who refers cases to the committee and then it is up to the president to decide if or if not she or he acts on the recommendations by the committee. so you see that there’s a structural failure in this whole construction, and now it’s time that we can correct this so that the committee could be independent vis-à-vis the president, because it’s not healthy that there’s no accountability.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, and representative of the council, the ethical question is at the centre of a great deal of debate at the moment and deserves careful consideration. a political decision, if it is made with due regard for the interests and wishes of its representatives, is in every respect an ethical decision. unfortunately, we have recently seen how easily and lightly the ethical bond which underlies the democratic process between citizens and political representatives can be sacrificed for personal interests. in this context, full autonomy of the institutions in the control activity as well as in the monitoring of the conduct of parliamentarians and staff must be guaranteed, but a new interinstitutional body could be easily influenced or could carry out an unlawful coercive action. the criticisms raised during the debate in 2021 are still relevant, as one of the primary functions of the parliament, as expressly provided for in the treaty on european union, is to exercise political control, and consequently this role can never be delegated to an external authority. at the same time, there is no solid legal basis for the establishment of the body in question. the definition of competences for the body itself is therefore also rather approximate. in fact, to launch investigations on one's own initiative is in complete contradiction with the separation of powers and roles of the various institutions and entails situations of political interference. improving transparency and integrity is absolutely necessary, of course, but this must not be done by setting up a new and additional body, but by making existing institutions more accountable and empowering the authorities in charge.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the debate on the congo and the border with rwanda opens up a particularly painful wound for us italians: the tragic death, on 22 february two years ago, of the italian ambassador luca attanasio. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. they were there to give peace a chance to end the conflicts that threaten life, the future, global progress. and on their behalf we must ask ourselves about the safety of civilian and military personnel employed on missions. colleagues, the violence in the regions of north and south kivu has increased tragically. the european union therefore supports the efforts of the east african community, kenya, ethiopia, south sudan, uganda, burundi and tanzania to stop the hostilities between congo, rwanda and the m23 rebels. and do so with a view to the vital role of women in the achievement of peace. it is our mission in the face of the multiple crises that fuel global insecurity and new wars. among the most dangerous crises i think of are the meddling of russia and china. in addition to the humanitarian crisis, i would also like to mention the biodiversity crisis. in fact, despite being a unesco world heritage site, virunga national park is constantly threatened by poaching and barbarism, illegal activities including the killing and wounding of park rangers in order to finance the criminal and violent activities that plague the region.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago the red flags of the former soviet union flew over the russian tanks that were invading ukraine. an unmistakable message to the whole west, an attack on the freedom, the territorial integrity of a sovereign state. europe had to take a stand, and we took a stand for the freedom, sovereignty and dignity of the ukrainian people. twelve months later, however, the risk of the conflict turning into a permanent freeze is high. this is a very dangerous situation which we must avoid for the ukrainian civilians, the first victims of this war, and for our businesses and citizens, who are suffering from the rising costs of bills and goods. could europe have done more to achieve the goal of peace? if the solution to accelerating the conflict was to send more weapons, why didn't we do it right away? i think that the diplomatic solution and the diplomatic way must be pursued and we must work together. the running forwards of the top of the class does not guarantee the promotion of the whole class, but only the awareness that, once again, it is divided. and that's really putin's goal.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the line taken by the leaders at the european council seems to mark a marked change of pace. perhaps the importance of ensuring effective control of external borders, with clear reference to the specific features of maritime borders, has finally been recognised for the whole of europe, and not just for a few countries. we have been asking for this for years, taking insults from the same people who are now only busy criticizing the italian government over a decree, the one on ngos, which is legitimate and respects international regulations. the same hypocrites who shout at ghostly walls when we are simply speaking against illegal immigration and criminal organizations that profit from the deaths at sea. you can insult us all you want, but we as the league and the national government are only concerned with defending the interests of the citizens on all fronts, including immigration, and in this we hope that europe will finally take action.
president. - mr lagarde, for over a year now, europe has been experiencing the highest inflation rate in decades. this is something that citizens will notice in their wallets. fortunately, the ecb has woken up and is fighting inflation. the ecb should not, however, always be looking for new ways of supporting southern european budgets, but should do what is necessary to reduce inflation and show that it is worth fighting against it. unfortunately, the ecb seems to be more interested in climate policy than in skyrocketing inflation. there is a wise saying: shoemaker, stay with your reed. i would like to convey this message to mrs lagarde: you focus on fighting inflation, you leave climate policy to politicians, and you let countries sort out their own budgets. in short, the ecb must do what is necessary.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, commissioner, the assessment of inflation is a matter of concern to our citizens. however, i have to say that the decision by the ecb to tackle the problem by aggressively raising interest rates is not the right recipe. we are facing the steepest rise in interest rates in a year that many countries in europe have ever seen. however, we know that inflation is mainly driven by fossil fuel prices, by corporate windfall profits, as the ecb itself has pointed out, and is the consequence of decades of delay in the ecological transition. the ecb itself has acknowledged that the rate hike cannot bring down energy prices, but instead will negatively affect the borrowing costs of firms and households, including mortgages, investments in energy efficiency and the boost also, why not, of renewables. and we just narrowly escaped recession in the eurozone. the current inflation can only be addressed by accelerating the energy transition once and for all. and the ecb should pursue a more environmentally friendly monetary policy, for example by applying differentiated interest rates for green activities, as the central banks of china and japan have already begun to do. this means offering cheaper refinancing rates to banks that increase lending for green projects. the ecb has a wealth of experience with this type of conditional lending operations following the three tltro rounds already. the best way to fight inflation is not to punish households more, but to accelerate the ecological transition.
president. - this annual report on the ecb is one of the many little numbers that are being put up in this hemisphere to keep the institutions afloat by issuing a blank cheque with parliament's approval. the report also contains a number of phrases in which parliament expresses its concern, particularly this year about the historically high inflation which is driving so many europeans into poverty. let's look each other in the eye and see where this inflation is coming from. this inflation is the result of a money creation which we are celebrating its tenth anniversary this year. the euro is an unnatural currency, created for political reasons, with purely political criteria and against the scientific questions of whether a single currency area is appropriate for countries and entities that are so far apart economically. the european union's elite, the majority in parliament, has nevertheless insisted on being able to enforce greater political unity and to determine the budgetary, economic and even social policies of the member states. the currency is a stranglehold tool of this unitary state. when this unnatural currency began to destabilize, you approached mario draghi to pump money into this system at all costs. now there is no turning back and you are trying to get back on track by raising interest rates. the citizens of the union are the victims of this story. your political dreams of a united europe have dragged them into a monetary and economic quagmire.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the community (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). fortunately, the initial hesitation has given way to the necessary measures in the field of interest rate increases and balance sheet consolidation. but we're not there yet. the general inflation rate is declining, but underlying inflation is currently stable. nevertheless, this one is still on the high side. this means that additional efforts must be made. as regards long-term policy, the 2% inflation target for the prices of goods and services should be considered. after all that we have been through in recent times, we have to ask ourselves how much sense it makes to focus on just that one standard or target. we must look, for example, at the continuing inflation of assets which has recently taken a considerable to high toll on us in a number of areas. i believe it is high time to incorporate more active old-fashioned aggregates (money supply, credit volumes) into policy-making. in any event, price stability must be and remains the ecb's primary objective. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. other objectives, including those in the field of climate policy, are subordinate to the objective of price stability.
madam president, please. sanctions against russia have sent energy and food prices, which are already rising, skyrocketing. this has led to double-digit inflation in the union last year, and this is a tax on the poor. it is therefore crucial that the ecb works with all its strength to restore price stability. this is also important for non-euro area countries, as they cannot be insulated from what happens in the euro area. in this context, i welcome any measure taken by the ecb to promote financial resilience and price stability. i regret to say, however, that the left is once again not looking after the interests of the citizens. in the midst of the fight against inflation, they want to give central banking an ideological boost and even prevent the growth of prices by lifting monetary austerity. i acknowledge the ecb's efforts to go green, and the national bank of hungary is a pioneer in this area, but let's not turn the institution into a green or a development bank. the main task is to stop the money from being wasted. please, madam president, do not allow such proposals and do everything possible to restore price stability.
madam president, commissioner, president lagarde, some time ago, when the european central bank was revising the definition of price stability, some of us felt that there was some uncertainty in this new definition. that medium term was doubtful whether it was 18 months, two years, one year... what was "medium term"? it also introduced uncertainty about the extent to which we could define 2% in that medium term, if we were talking about the average in that period, the median, the fashion. in any case, beyond these uncertainties, what seems clear is that inflation is already moderating and that the european central bank's own forecasts put inflation in the fourth quarter of this year at 3.6%, which means that in december we would be at 3%. in addition, the ecb's own forecasts put inflation for the full year 2024 at slightly above 2%. so, with these ceteris paribus forecasts, without assuming any change in monetary policy, we would have inflation of just over 2% in 18 months. i would urge caution in future increases.
madam president, madam commissioner, colleagues, five times in nine months the ecb has increased interest rates, with huge implications both economic and societal. it’s the final straw for many struggling to get by at a time of immense pressure on working families and people. in ireland, this is compounded by the eu and our government’s fixation on vulture funds. when family mortgages were sold off to vultures, those families were promised their full rights. now, as the ecb turns the screw tighter, these families have found that such promises are now worthless. these mortgage holders are now trapped in schemes with little option to escape. many have seen their repayments rise by thousands of euros a year, with further rate hikes likely. if they fall behind, they have less recourse to access solutions. this parliament, which lined up behind the eu proposal to back vulture funds, now knows the real human impacts of its policies. targeted interest relief is needed in ireland. the eu and ecb must stop prioritising vulture funds and banks over working families.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, as well as president lagarde for her work, particularly in the ecb’s interest in the energy performance of buildings directive (epbd) for which i am rapporteur. inflation driven by high energy costs demonstrates the need for the ecb to further incentivise renovations in order to fulfil its price stability mandate. buildings are the eu’s most valuable financial assets, worth tens of trillions of euros. in my view, the epbd is as much about assets and investment protection as it is climate change, as low epc—rated buildings will be less valuable. the reality is that public money will only stretch so far. there need to be much stronger links between the financial and the renovation sectors, as access to finance is one of the main barriers for people and businesses as they try to renovate. in this regard, president lagarde, what is your view on the proposed european renovation loan and the european guarantee fund for building renovations, as well as on incentivising commercial banks to provide renovation solutions?
madam president, recently a minister of an eu member state said, complaining, that the ecb is not accountable to anyone except herself. this is simply not true. not only is this debate proving that is not true, but so do all the practices that we have. the ecb president regularly comes to discuss ecb actions in the econ committee of this parliament, and we scrutinise the ecb actions very seriously, very thoroughly. however, as president lagarde recalled, this accountability exercise is largely based on practices, most of which are not explicitly written or codified. but now we are ready to change this, and i’m really happy about it. we’ve been waiting for a long time. twenty—five years ago, a parliament report called for an agreement with the soon—to—be—established ecb. for over 20 years, no progress was made. but more recently, in the econ committee, during one of these debates, we started to discuss with president lagarde about this need and we started with her a fruitful dialogue. i’m so pleased that the ecb is now ready to take this step and i want to thank president lagarde for her openness, her availability. please let me acknowledge her work. the independence of the ecb must be preserved but, at the same time, independence and accountability must go hand in hand. this is what we have done, this is what we will do, and this will reinforce citizens’ trust and silence the sceptics.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president lagarde, commissioner mcguinness, in commenting on the ecb's 2022 report, it is necessary to point out that the current increase in inflation is due to the sudden rise in energy and commodity prices, not only because of the war, but even earlier because of previous choices on green policies, which are not sustainable for the maintenance of the previous european industrial capacity. the ecb's statutory framework is rigidly monetarist and therefore, in a situation of exogenous inflation, operates in procyclical terms, amplifying, with depressing effects, the cost criticality of entire productive sectors, with consequent negative effects on real employment and wage levels. the ecb's action can correct neither the causes nor the structural effects of this inflation, but can only achieve the irreversibility of widespread deindustrialization, by adding to an unresolved supply-side problem also a demand crisis, related to increased unemployment and job insecurity, which are already affecting, with the reduction of real wages, the essential living standards, with expensive energy and the increase in the cost of financing for businesses and households. the euro cannot be devalued either, because of the persistence of high interest rates or because of the so-called marshall-lerner condition. with the enforcement of green policies, production prices for exporting firms that suffer from inflation are not traceable beyond certain minimum levels. the fed, on the other hand, raises rates to attract capital and preserve the international role of the dollar, and can offset the consequences of recession with expansionary fiscal policies, whereas the strict rules of the treaties do not allow this. this inevitably leads to a massive relaxation of the state aid rules under articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which, however, according to your line of 'quantitative tightening', will only be allowed to those countries with greater fiscal space and will be precluded for all others, because of the unsustainable cost of financing states on the markets, which you yourselves have determined by raising rates and selling government bonds. the scenario is reminiscent of the famous saying: the operation was a complete success, but the patient died.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner mcguinness, we have already seen in the 'fit for 55' package of proposals that the ideological approach to the energy transition so far is creating potentially devastating distortions, particularly in terms of increasing costs for firms and households already affected by the pandemic and war. but today we are discussing another of the severe consequences of the strict rules imposed in the framework of the strategy: the commission has also taken note of the fact that the european union is currently considering the possibility of extending the scope of the programme to include the following areas: what is surprising is the delay with which brussels, after having sent the various green deal proposals for regulations, which will soon come into force, is starting to fill a regulatory vacuum which seeks to stimulate and protect security of supply. why is the european legislator only now raising the issue? the chips act itself, on which the institutions will shortly begin negotiations, aims to relocate semiconductor production to europe, which requires special raw materials. the new measure will have to take account of several factors, first and foremost the role of china, which has accumulated many specific raw materials over time, also by plundering other continents such as africa. china controls more than 90% of the rare earths and copper stocks and 77% of the global solar panel market, and this in the face of exponential growth in european demand by 2023. the role of the united states in the new green economy inflation reduction act is also highlighted. the us, for example, has decided to encourage american households to buy products with at least 40% of the raw materials extracted in the us. although this is a matter of concern and may seem to be protectionist, it must be borne in mind that geopolitically it is an attempt to defend one's own national strategic interests. to this end, i therefore believe it is appropriate and urgent to prepare a study on the real level of dependence of our economy on chinese supply chains, in particular in the renewable energy, metals, electronics and pharmaceutical sectors.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am glad that this debate is taking place, because finally on the question of rare earths the whole of the shortcomings of european energy policy will be revealed, as will the hypocrisy of the commission and the stupidity with which you claim to save the world without realizing that you are massacring it by imposing on us a model of sustainability which is not sustainable at all. and that's because while you force us to buy electric cars, which contain from nine to eleven kilos of rare earths, which in their production cycle consume, according to researchers at the university of california, three to four times the energy needed for a car with a combustion engine, you don't consider the consequences of these choices. what kind of things? for example, the environmental consequences. to produce just one kilogram of gallium, 50 tons of rock are needed, and even 200 tons for one kilogram of luteum, processes that consume thousands of cubic meters of water, sulfuric and nitric acids, which are then dumped in the ground or in the sea. moreover, supporting the change in our energy model already requires doubling the production of rare earths every 15 years or so, and over the next 30 years more minerals will need to be extracted than have been extracted by mankind in the last 70,000 years, and some may already be exhausted in the next four or five years. not to mention the geopolitical implications. some of these metals, which are essential for the production of communications systems, weapons and consumer goods, are 90-95% available in china alone and the rest in its allies, putting europe in a much worse position than that of russian gas. the reality is that you base your environmental ideologies on lies and omissions. yes, because germany, sweden, france and many other european countries have deposits of rare earths, but they don't mine them because they pollute, and so they decided to relocate the environmental impact and pollution from mining to poor countries, ready to sacrifice their environment to get rich, without considering that the consequences, however, we will all pay. on rare earths, which are always too little talked about, the end of european leadership will probably be consummated, but some will be happy because, even if we have a poorer continent, we will have achieved climate neutrality, but again on the skin of citizens who can do nothing about it.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cycling mobility brings many environmental and social benefits and makes an important contribution to europe's economic growth. the european bicycle industry represents over a thousand small and medium-sized enterprises with one million jobs. the sector is worth €2 billion a year in italy, with 110 companies in the veneto region alone and a turnover of around €900 million. given the importance of the bicycle industry, not only from an economic point of view but also from an employment point of view, the european union must include it in an industrial policy focused on the production of bicycles and components 'made in europe', in order to support our excellence and to encourage competitiveness among european companies. supporting the world of cycling means supporting and encouraging europe's economy, history and culture.
in writing. there is an increasing urgency to develop a cycling strategy in the european union. cycling is one of the fastest growing sports in europe, with an industry in full expansion and italy is the leader in europe with a turnover of 1.6 billion euros. in addition, a european strategy on cycling could further benefit cycling tourism, a form of tourism which is becoming increasingly fashionable and which brings more than 8 and a half million tourists to our country every year. this strategy could also help the infrastructure development of new runways and routes, connecting cities and countries across our continent. but a european cycling strategy must also take account of safety on europe's roads. i am thinking of the recent disappearance of davide rebellin, for whom justice is still being sought. the first step in a serious policy on this matter at european level must be to guarantee safe roads and uniform rules.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, supporting european farmers and consumers: this must be the european union's priority in the face of the threats to food security brought to light by the conflict in ukraine. the shortage of products and fertilisers we have seen in the last year has underlined the need to strengthen european food production and food sovereignty. i therefore, as rapporteur for the id group, put forward constructive proposals for this resolution, on which we have worked fruitfully and positively. our aim is to make fertilisers really available and affordable and to reduce the european union's dependence on third countries. we import too much and produce too little, so we have to change course. the european union must rely on its farmers and give them all the tools to create a sustainable value chain. that is why we have asked that all those nutrients from processed manure be equated with chemical fertilisers. in addition, we have called for the regional deployment of small and medium-scale biogas plants dedicated to the production of fertilisers, particularly digestate and energy, to be increased. this resolution brings some common sense to the european parliament on agriculture and its environmental commitments. the european commission too often forgets that to have viable commitments, alternative resources and innovation are needed, starting with the use of products and technologies that the first sector has already developed as its own wealth of knowledge, as italian farmers have shown for years. only then can we regain the productive capacity that the european citizens expect and ensure a proper food supply.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, crises and speculation, the latter often linked to the mad war between russia and ukraine, force us to give immediate answers to our farmers about the price of fertilisers, the problem of fertilisers, because we have farmers on the one hand who are forced to increase the cost of fertilisers by up to 130%, a terrifying blow, and on the other consumers to whom we must guarantee food security and non-prohibitive prices. support for the sector is good, calming down prices is good, but it is not enough. this crisis should make us promote two very important practices once and for all. first, the use of new digital spraying technologies which can reduce the amount of fertiliser by up to 90%, while maintaining its efficiency, resulting in cost savings and reduced pollution. secondly, the promotion and development of organic fertilisers from agricultural waste, which we should strongly support, because in this way our producers would be part of the production chain in the microbiological processes to produce natural fertilisers and would have a new chance to offer healthy products at affordable prices. that's the path we must walk together.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we welcome this oral question because it raises important issues which we, as lega-salvini premier of the id group, have been trying to bring to light for months. the war between russia and ukraine has exacerbated the problem of europe's reliance on a small number of suppliers for fertilisers. before the war russia accounted for 16% of world fertiliser exports and today, in our view, there are many things to be done. in the short term, it is essential to implement policies to support european fertiliser producers, including through state aid and financing instruments provided for in the cap strategic plans and even, as we have requested, the use of the agricultural crisis reserve fund, often intended for non-agricultural purposes, as happened in 2020, mr commissioner. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states. if we want to help the sector, we must also reduce the bureaucratic procedures for obtaining aid which cause so many delays and so much economic and environmental damage. there is no more time for delay. farmers and consumers deserve swift and targeted responses and action to deal with this crisis that has unintentionally affected their jobs and our food security. we expect the commission to deal with the real problems of agriculture. on the other hand, it is and is called the primary sector.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a minute is not enough to talk about these issues, but i would like to emphasize a few points. the resolution we are about to vote on is an important and positive one, and i believe that all the groups will support it, and it puts agriculture back in the centre of the debate in relation to the environmental pressures which have been strongly felt in this sector in recent years. but the subject of fertilisers is multifaceted, as several colleagues have said. there is a geopolitical issue, there is a difficulty in supplying our farmers, there is a cost issue, and this affects many aspects of those who produce in our continent, and a need to increase production capacity. this, the need to increase production capacity, for which fertilisers are important, is a subject we have discussed in the cap and in the whole farm to fork package and we have had to find compromises, and it has not been easy to consider this aspect. but it does require pragmatism. we should, for example, stop the directive on plant protection products, but we already know that. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the developing countries. we need energy plans, we need economic support, we need the ability to give our agriculture a competitive framework, which unfortunately is worldwide and which has to face competition from those who are not subject to a system of rules like ours. we can do a lot about fertilisers, and i hope the european commission will take note of how much we are going to vote today.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, under the pretext of protecting the environment, the european left has finally succeeded in inventing a hidden asset on the home of the italians, going to attack the shelter par excellence, the fruit of the work and sacrifices of a lifetime. in the name of ideological environmentalism, the green house directive will lead to the devaluation of what for many families is their only asset, forcing them to spend on average 35 000 euros to adapt their house to the new standards: a measure that is wrong in substance and in method, that will throw the construction industry into a tailspin and make another huge gift to china who will get rich selling us photovoltaics. this is a rule which is not applicable to our country, where 75% of buildings are in an energy class below d, and to restructure the frames, according to the data of the ance manufacturers, it would take 630 years instead of the 7 granted by the directive. we are facing yet another masterpiece of european self-harm to which the italian left is giving way without a shred of dignity. the vote in favour of this measure is a vote against our country and against the italians, who will have a chance tomorrow to see who in this house is fighting for their interests and who is trampling on them. we are all for italy first and we in the league will oppose this euro-madness as long as we have breath. hands off the italian houses!
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, italy has given 110% of its fiscal resources to make the energy leap and in two years they have built less than 500 000 apartments. now they're asking to build 9 million apartments in italy in 10 years. it's not going to happen, because one of the things that's happened is that the cost of the scaffolding and the scaffolding material has gone up 150 percent to 200 percent. and then, a much more serious point for the commission: radon, which is a radioactive natural gas that comes out of the ground and is found in italy, the czech republic, finland and spain. coating buildings means sealing radon even more efficiently inside buildings, which means an increase in lung cancer cases for the people living in those buildings. i therefore ask the commission to consider radon as a very important issue and to provide a whole range of activities for measurement and corrective action.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur and the ombudsman for the excellent work they have done. the ombudsman's work has focused on issues related to the lack of transparency and the persistence of conflicts of interest within the european institutions. in particular, most of the files concerned the european commission and several cases of maladministration were identified in relation to it, including its president. it seems that we are all agreed here, ladies and gentlemen, that we want to support the ombudsman's efforts to ensure greater transparency, less conflict of interest, and greater democratic participation of european citizens. it is a pity that the chairmen of the majority groups, but also of the left and the greens, voted against the request of the covi committee to invite president von der leyen to a hearing. is this your courage and your consistency when you are asked to act for transparency? all i see is hypocrisy and no seriousness.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's environmental plan is still a disaster. commissioner timmermans, you spoke of a just and fair transition. well, i don't think he is. in short, your measures will lead to the sacrifice of the productive sectors, companies and workers on the altar of a green ideology. there will be a further shift of production out of europe, benefiting big polluters like china. globally, 33 percent of the total global emissions of harmful gases are the fault of china: alone and i say, alone! exceeds the sum of the four economies that follow it: the united states, the european union, india and russia. and be careful . has not yet reached its peak emissions. in pursuit of greta slogans you want to penalize europe and its citizens. but more importantly, who pays for these super plans? they will pay consumers with price increases and workers with bankruptcy anxiety and social crises that we already see. do you want to give us a europe that is poorer and more and more subservient to china? i find it a total disgrace! nice plan, though, yours. but let the chinese vote on the dossiers, because we will certainly not vote for them here.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for years we have been talking about regulating access to and sharing of personal data and not in this parliament. the stated intention was initially to introduce the concept of individual ownership of one's own data and the associated rights. then he went in the opposite direction. today we are discussing a proposal which, in the name of competition and by playing on the ambiguity of mixed data, is in effect stripping people of their legitimate control over their personal data, trampling on the very essence of the right to privacy. the important thing is that companies can freely use it for their business and profit. and we know that with our data, they can shape our lives, even our voting intentions. why is this house now more concerned with the interests of multinationals or third parties at the expense of the rights of european citizens? many believe the answer can be gleaned from the dynamics of the qatar-gate. if we keep this up, it's gonna be very hard to convince them otherwise.
president. – this concludes the vote. (the sitting was briefly suspended)
the next item is the joint debate on the european semester – the report by irene tinagli on the european semester for economic policy coordination 2023 [2022/2150(ini)] (a9-0044/2023) and the report by estrella durá ferrandis on the european semester for economic policy coordination: employment and social priorities for 2023 [2022/2151(ini)] (a9-0051/2023). mrs tinagli, the floor is yours.
rapporteur. – madam president, last year, when we debated the semester report in this house, war had just broken out in ukraine. the war had, and is still having, a devastating impact on the ukrainian population. to a completely different extent it had, and it still having, an impact on us as well. the eu was one of the most exposed advanced economies to downward risks, given its proximity to ukraine and also the heavy reliance on energy imports, particularly on gas from russia. the impact of high energy prices and the subsequent inflation led to the erosion of household purchasing power and industry competitiveness, in particular that of smes. so, on the one hand, we all know that the low and stable inflation rate will be an important condition for long—term sustainable economic growth and so it is important to intervene on inflation. but, on the other hand, we also know that a reduction in aggregate demand, combined with the less favourable financing conditions, which are related, when you have high interest rates, could lead to a sharp decline in investment and therefore in future economic growth. so investment in renewables and energy efficiency, for example, could also suffer, although these are precisely the investments required to reduce reliance on imported fossil fuels and structurally limit inflation driven by energy prices. so it’s quite a complicated conundrum. these deteriorating economic conditions have increased the vulnerabilities and risks. the rising mortgage rates and the deterioration in debt servicing capacity resulting from the decline in real income of households may cause further distress for families and for financial markets in general. so against this background, we need to act. in our public debate, we always recall that the primary objective of the ecb is to maintain price stability, of course. but we should also recall that the aim of the union as a whole should be to dampen the impact of current turbulences on the real economy and to minimise future risks, thereby defending the well-being of our citizens and preserving our production structure and the international competitiveness of our companies, as well as decent working conditions for our workers. so in this regard, we need adequate and coordinated fiscal, structural and regulatory policies that complement the ecb’s monetary policy actions in order to support household incomes and provide targeted and temporary support to companies suffering from supply bottlenecks and high energy costs. the policy leeway created by the activation of the general escape clause was very important and was determinant in strengthening member states’ economic and social resilience, both during the covid pandemic and also in the last year after the war started. the commission released last week the fiscal policy guidance for 2024. however, we need more clarity as regards the medium and long term. this is why we call in this report for an urgent review of the eu fiscal framework, preferably to be completed prior to the deactivation of the general escape clause. the commission’s communication of last november is an important step in the right direction. it addressed most of the concerns to emerge in the last years in the public debate, in particular as regards the simplification of the framework and the more tailor—made governance. the revised regulatory framework should allow member states to have sufficient leeway to deliver decisive crisis resolution measures when they are needed and should preserve the flexibility already in—built in the stability and growth pact. of course, there are some issues that are not addressed in the commission communication, but which are important. for example, the issue of macroeconomic stabilisation is not properly addressed, and we believe that the commission should build also on the positive experience we’ve had in the past years, for example with sure. but most importantly, we hope that there will be a debate and that the commission, the council, will consider our contribution to the semester cycle and the commission will soon be able to bring forward legislative proposals on the reform of economic governance.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the commission proposal of 9 november last and the subsequent debate on the revision of the stability pact, public debt continues to be emphasized while private debt, which has shown itself to be more responsible for the causes of crises in the past, is totally ignored. how many countries in the euro area and the world meet the 60% of gdp public debt limit? very few! the average from the eurozone is 95%. it is also necessary that the member countries grow at the gdp rate, abandoning the austerity policies and the rigid debt-repayment rules that have always systematically failed, instead of pursuing sterile percentages without scientific basis. the treaties were written in maastricht and lisbon, not on mount sinai! let us therefore stop pretending to ignore these problems and finally put the treaties to work, adapting them to the real needs of the world in which we live.
in writing. the minimum income schemes in several member states are certainly a useful tool in combating absolute poverty and in providing a form of livelihood for those who cannot work. however, they must not become a harmful barrier to entry into the world of work. so the persistent demands from europe for a minimum income directive cannot be shared. the most effective way of combating poverty is to create stable and quality employment. it should also be stressed that the prerogatives to establish the criteria for minimum incomes are the responsibility of the member states alone. any minimum income scheme should only be a temporary form of support to combat social exclusion by encouraging access to employment, not by preventing it.
mr president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, we know that in this century a single national security strategy can do little, that a european security strategy is not enough: we need an ever stronger transatlantic security strategy. and in the transatlantic dialogue, we know that for our biggest and most important ally, the united states, it has become a matter of national security, the concept that whoever is leading the enabling and emerging technologies, from energy to biomedical sciences, from artificial intelligence to quantum computing, will emerge as a world leader and will be able to wield soft power and hard power better than anyone else. so i ask you: is there a perfect harmony between europe and the united states in this doctrinal assessment? do you find weaknesses, vulnerabilities in implementing that doctrine?
in the name of the id group. mr president, high representative borrell, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of israel are proud of their country, which this year celebrates 75 years of independence, and believe in the justice of its cause, but at the same time they are exhausted by the internal struggles and their consequences for political and social life. these are the words of president herzog, and we thank him for this warning which is valid for all liberal democracies and also for celebrating remembrance day with us. israel knows the dangers of the virus of political polarization, a virus that can erode citizens' trust in institutions and even paralyze the nation. but it is important to reiterate that israel is a beacon of democracy. it's a special state in the way it's built and in the way it operates. it is an innovative state by nature and eager to contribute to the development of mankind, despite being located in the most difficult area of the world. it has enemies around it, intolerance, contempt, terrorism and states with a lower will to develop and to establish democracy. but israel can defend itself against all of this. i will now switch to english and, given the importance of our debate today, i would like to conclude with a quote from chaim weizmann, the first president of israel: the future of the state of israel rests on three foundations: fraternal love, an effort to build and peace to all, near and far.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a georgia member of nato will make the allies of the european union stronger and more secure. this is because the two international institutions are complementary through an indissoluble strategic partnership. georgia's participation in the alliance will always be based on its commitment to the core values of nato and the european union: the eu is committed to the rule of law, democracy, human rights, pluralism, civil society, openness, transparency and respect for international law. since regaining independence, the georgian people have made a clear and consistent choice to be part of the euro-atlantic democratic community. given the violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of both georgia and ukraine, how can we build a stronger system of collective security for ourselves and our neighbours, commissioner? today we see the citizens of georgia as our european brothers and we must help them in every way.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the eu-armenia relationship and the situation in nagorno-karabakh. as the resolution rightly stresses, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms are common values of democracy and the european union still has some important issues to address concerning the stability and security of the region. it is worrying to see the lack of leadership shown by the european union during and immediately after the 2020 war. we are here to promote a safe, stable, peaceful and prosperous south caucasus region, and the european union must assume the responsibility of being a major player in this process. the situation in nagorno karabakh remains precarious with the blockade of the lachin corridor representing a serious obstacle to freedom of movement and human security in the region. in conclusion, the european union must do everything possible to promote security and stability in the southern region.
madam president, first of all, i extend my congratulations to the rapporteur for this impartial report. in january of this year, we had a long discussion in this plenary session regarding the blockade of a large corridor by the azerbaijanis against 120 000 armenians living in nagorno-karabakh, including 30 000 children, with no medicine, no food and no schooling. since then, in february, we had the binding international court of justice order that requires azerbaijan to take all measures at its disposal to ensure unimpeded movement of persons, vehicles and cargo along the lachin corridor. what has azerbaijan done? nothing. as long as azerbaijan continues to blockade this corridor, does not respect international law, does not respect armenian culture and religious heritage in nagorno-karabakh, we cannot consider azerbaijan a reliable partner. but also this: it is a regime committing crimes against armenians and against humanity.
madam president, colleagues, the european union and the european parliament must condemn immediately the blockade of azerbaijan imposed on the lachine corridor. this blockade is a continuation of a systematic anti-armenian policy dating back to 1915. it is essentially a continuation of the genocide perpetrated on the brave and first european and christian armenian people by the ottoman empire and the young turk coup after 1915. what is happening there is a real disgrace and the european parliament, the european union and the european commission in your person, commissioner, cannot continue to play games with azerbaijan. we can't pretend we don't see the human rights violations, the blockade, the lack of medical services, the oppression of these people there because they were on the other side or because we had geopolitical interests. we're saying here that the geopolitical interest is to protect every right of every single person, to protect every single human right of self-determination. i personally believe that both ararat and artsakh, historically armenian, will one day be again. but for the purpose here, so that there is no disgrace to this parliament, it is your duty, this blockade must be lifted.
member of the commission. – madam president, i want to thank the rapporteur and all members who have contributed to the report. and, of course, we are very happy to see such great support emerging for armenia. we are also very happy to hear how much commitment is taken towards post-conflict stabilisation, both in terms of relations between the two, but also in terms of europe having the need to participate in the peacekeeping exercise as well. this is why our csdp mission is, i hope, only a first step. through this, we will contribute to the stabilisation of the entire region.
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, i hear your voice and i share your sadness about the decades—long non—resolution of this conflict causing so much suffering for all people in the region. this is a failure not only of the minsk group co-chairs, but of the entire international community. for a long time we left the initiative to putin, and his only goal is to increase his influence in the region and the dependence of the state of armenia by russia. i share the view of all of you that we should support much stronger eu involvement as a facilitator and mediator of the peaceful resolution of this terrible current situation. the key points are: immediate de—blocking of the lachin corridor, effective guarantees for the armenians living in nagorno-karabakh; a peace treaty between both sides, with all the elements we counted before. but the most important thing is that the people in the region should have a peaceful future, should invest in their education, in their career, and not in weapons and not in fight and not in hate and not in discrimination. i call again on azerbaijan to de—block the lachin corridor and a serious, effective, fruitful peace treaty with armenia.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we cannot continue to appeal to both sides in the conflict, maintaining an equidistant stance, when the behaviour of the actors involved is diametrically opposed. on the one hand we have armenia, which has always shown a proactive approach at the negotiating table, opening doors and consenting to the presence of our civilian mission on its national territory. on the other hand, we have azerbaijan, which, relying on the support of authoritarian states such as turkey and russia, and making full use of the latitudes of our union, aims to maximise its advantages at the negotiating table, militarily. it is clear that there is a parallel between what is happening in ukraine and in the caucasus, with the invasion by an authoritarian state against a democracy, but it is equally clear that in the latter case our principles and values are being sacrificed on the altar of realpolitik. but, ladies and gentlemen, we must free ourselves from the double standards that too often accompany our work. our principles and values are not for sale, and there should be no quantities of energy resources that can call that certainty into question, otherwise what would be left of our union?
rapporteur. – madam president, dear commissioner, this is the first comprehensive european parliament report on eu-azerbaijan relations since 2018, and it comes at a crucial time for our mutual relations. given the current geopolitical uncertainty, the report sheds light on the state of relations between the eu and azerbaijan. as azerbaijan is a strategic supplier of fossil fuel energy, it is essential that eu and azerbaijan work on enhanced cooperation outside the energy sector. it is in the eu interest to build on the strategic cooperation and economic integration with azerbaijan, but we should also continue to promote human rights and democratic standards in the country. respecting freedom of speech and the rights of minorities also contributes to the peaceful coexistence and security of everyone in the south caucasus. the current negotiations on the new bilateral comprehensive eu-azerbaijan agreement should follow this approach. i welcome the increased diplomatic activity of the eu in the region and encourage the eu to prioritise preventive diplomacy as an honest broker in the region, including through promoting inter-religious and intercultural dialogue. the eu should not repeat the mistakes of the past, when other malign actors took advantage of our passivity to gain influence in this region, which is crucial for european security and stability. it is vital that azerbaijan and armenia come to a timely agreement on a sustainable peace treaty while respecting the principles of the helsinki final act. the report also highlights the importance of the rights and security of the armenian population residing in nagorno-karabakh and the prompt and safe return of all refugees and internally displaced persons to their homes. we call on armenia and azerbaijan to address all concerns relating to the functioning of the lachin corridor through dialogue and consultations. therefore, plenary amendments welcome the recent talks between karabakh armenians’ and azerbaijani representatives. border demarcation and delineation are also critical components covered in the report. the report denounces the destruction of cultural, religious and historical heritage since the beginning of the nagorno-karabakh conflict. urgent action is required and we call for a unesco mission to the region. building strong relations with our neighbours is crucial, and this report can serve as a framework for future cooperation. finally, let me thank you, the shadow rapporteurs, for an excellent cooperation.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, today’s debate is a timely opportunity to discuss our relations with azerbaijan. azerbaijan is an important partner for the eu. therefore, we have an interest in continuing our good cooperation – particularly when it comes to energy – cooperation on reforms, trade and investments. negotiations on a new comprehensive eu-azerbaijan agreement are ongoing. we remain committed to continuing the negotiations with a view to finalising them soon. as you note in your report, the human rights situation and the respect for the rule of law in azerbaijan remain a concern. these are at the core of our relationship as jointly agreed in the eu-azerbaijan partnership priorities. we firmly believe that the rule of law, human rights and democratic institutions are the fundamentals of an independent, stable and prosperous country, and the condition for a constructive business environment. we welcome azerbaijan’s signature of the european convention on human rights protocol banning the death penalty in all circumstances. we are closely following the implementation of the media law and the adoption of the new law on political parties. through our eu delegation in baku, we are closely following individual cases of human rights defenders. our cooperation with azerbaijan in the energy sector has intensified. a memorandum of understanding on a strategic partnership in the field of energy was signed in july last year in baku. as you also acknowledged in the report, this cooperation is more important than ever for ensuring diversification of europe’s energy supplies, bringing new, reliable sources of energy to europe. russia’s invasion of ukraine has forced us to develop and diversify trade routes and transport connections between europe and asia. i agree that also our cooperation with azerbaijan in the area of connectivity is strategically important. in this context, we welcome the important assistance azerbaijan has been providing to ukraine. connectivity and energy are key elements of the economic and investment plan, which aims to mobilise up to eur 2 billion of public and private investments in azerbaijan. the eu is above all driven by the common goal to contribute to a stable, peaceful and prosperous south caucasus. we stand ready to continue supporting azerbaijan, whether through facilitation of the peace process or through the continued provision of humanitarian and demining assistance. the eu deployed its mission in armenia, the euma, in order to reduce tensions and support the peace process. this is an important step to reinforce stability and strengthen the eu’s role in the region. we continue to fully support the facilitation of the dialogue between the leaders of azerbaijan and armenia on all issues pertaining to the peace process, including on a future peace treaty and border delimitation through the efforts of the president of the european council. we encourage the leaders of both countries to use the historic opportunity to solve this conflict for good and to return to the substantial dialogue. many important questions need addressing urgently. as we saw again on 6 march, the situation on the karabakh line of contact continues to be very tense. we deplore the incidents that led to at least five deaths. the circumstances surrounding this deadly incident need to be fully investigated. all parties should show restraint in order to prevent any actions which could further undermine the regional stability and threaten the peace process. we will continue to be fully mobilized.
president. - mr zovko's report contains some very strong statements on azerbaijan. and rightly so. but it's not enough. the continuing violence of dictator aliyev against both nagorno-karabakh and armenia calls for total condemnation in the strongest terms. i am also outraged by the continued blockade by azerbaijan of the lachin corridor. and remember, aliyev has had troops inside armenia's borders for several months now. i myself have recently seen the devastation of their shelling of the southern city of goris. but where the report really fails is in the disgraceful gas deal that commission president von der leyen signed with president aliyev. that few billion cubic meters of gas could have been obtained elsewhere. and above all, the effect is that aliyev now feels a political incentive from this gas event, from this deal, and his aggression is only getting worse. this gas deal is a geopolitical mistake that needs to be scrapped. and that is why i shall only support this report tomorrow if a few amendments which i have co-signed are adopted.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, first of all, i would like to thank ms zovko for her constructive work on this very important report, and let’s have a realistic approach on eu-azerbaijan relations. having said that, i think we should start by respecting each other. respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty is a vital precondition for future peaceful relations between azerbaijan and armenia and for resolving the long-standing conflict in nagorno-karabakh. both countries need to recognise each other’s territorial integrity and respect their sovereign borders. azerbaijan and armenia should also acknowledge each other’s history, culture and identity towards future recognition. it doesn’t mean that they should be stuck in the past, but rather focus on the future and upcoming generations. azerbaijan and armenia should also promote economic cooperation and trade, which could help build mutual trust and promote stability in the region. people-to-people contacts should be encouraged to promote mutual understanding, tolerance and reconciliation.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, commissioner, allow me at the beginning two reflections. first, the term territorial integrity usually applies to internationally recognised borders, and secondly, many conflicts in the region are to be improved with russia’s defeat in the war waged against ukraine. i think that to the list enumerated by commissioner of important parts in our relationship with azerbaijan, we have to add security issues as well. therefore, i commend the role of the eu representative to the caucasus and his actions to enhance dialogue and, secondly, the nato secretary general’s personal initiative with representatives, as well as us actions. we have to serve as real honest broker. that means trying not to take sides.
madam president, relations between the european union and azerbaijan are marked by the way the azerbaijani government treats armenia and its own citizens. we strongly condemn the recent military aggression by azerbaijan on the sovereign territory of armenia in september 2022. azerbaijan is a strategic partner for the european union's energy independence. but this is in the interest of both partners, that is, both azerbaijan and the european union. the azerbaijani authorities systematically violate fundamental human rights and freedoms, persecute journalists and disseminate disinformation aimed at the west. for the partnership to work, azerbaijan must also start respecting human rights. we cannot achieve lasting peace through violence or military means. we therefore call on azerbaijan to pursue reconciliation in the interests of its citizens. the eu has a key role to play as a mediator.
madam chairman, congratulations to your colleague. a very well-written, excellent report, as always. what needs to be said, however, and cannot be spared, is that in order to improve and restore relations between the european union and azerbaijan, azerbaijan must take its stand and end the war it is waging against armenia. he must unblock the lachine corridor, he must stop the destruction of churches, of orthodox monasteries, of memorials, of cemeteries. to stop the violence and aggression that it is leading against artsakh. i remind you, artsakh is historically armenian territory. the territory of one of the oldest nations, like the armenian in europe, one of the oldest european civilizations and one of the oldest christian civilizations. this line of genocide, violence and terror, which was carried out by the ottoman empire, by the ottoman turks and continued, unfortunately, by azerbaijan, must be stopped and then we can talk about improving relations, about trade relations and so on. as for the human rights violations, they cannot be traded for oil and gas. at least that's what you say. i'm inclined to agree with you on this one.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the debate today manifests your continued interest in eu—azerbaijan relations, and i want to stress an important message out of this debate again, which is that the eu will continue to follow closely the human rights situation in azerbaijan and the respect for the rule of law. i can assure you that our intensified energy cooperation with azerbaijan does not sideline our continuous efforts to advocate for human rights and the rule of law in our dialogue with azerbaijan. and we will continue to do so. we will continue to engage with our azerbaijani counterparts to advance discussions on all issues pertaining to the peace process.
rapporteur. – madam president, thank you very much, and thank you very much once again commissioner. i took on board all the speeches by my colleagues. once again, thanks very much to the shadows and for their, once again, constructive speech. i think this is a very critical report. this is a report that deals with azerbaijan as a whole, as a country, and what needs to be improved. the european union should work on human rights and respect for media freedoms, and respect for women – that’s the most important thing. women are the ones who will change that society. that society will change either way, but women are the force that will change it, regardless of whether they prevent the marches on international women’s day. tomorrow, we have a very important speech on that, really, most important celebration. so, thank you. it’s not easy: the european union can play a really honest broker in this, in the south caucasus; if we don’t play it here – where we need both countries on board and we need to take both countries from malign influence, from russia, from türkiye, from iran and from all these countries that will never contribute to the democratisation of the societies – then we will not succeed anywhere else. so this report is a first step on this. thank you once again, and i hope that you will support the report tomorrow at the plenary vote.
madam president, i voted against the report with conviction because the mandatory annual reductions in greenhouse gas emissions that are binding on member states, the so-called 'effort-sharing regulation', are nothing more than so-called 'green extremism'. green extremism is again prevailing, not just in this chamber, but in interagency negotiations. existing legislation sets binding national greenhouse gas targets for each of the 27 member states of the european union, which together amount to a 30% reduction in emissions by 2030. the base year is 2005. the proposal that is being voted on raises that figure to 40% once again. this is done by legislating what's called a "trajectory of reduction" and it sets a degree of flexibility, reserves, loans, banking and other such things. this is unwise. this puts these sectors in a very difficult position because of a lot of adding regulations, of administration, of trying to tax operating businesses with socialist and communist in spirit and design and that's unreasonable.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have supported this final compromise proposal for the revision of the effort sharing regulation, which was negotiated during the trilogue during the czech presidency. this shared effort provision applies to greenhouse gas emissions from sectors not covered by the eu emissions trading system, such as petrol and diesel used in road transport or heating fuels and fertilisers, where appropriate. in order to reduce emissions in those sectors for the period 2021 to 2030, the regulation sets binding national targets and establishes annual emission allocations for each member state. i consider these goals to be realistic. the common european emission target is a 40% reduction by 2030 and a 14% reduction for the czech republic. the target will be gradually reduced by 2030. i consider it important that the annual emission allocations for the period 2026 to 2030 are updated in 2025 following a comprehensive review. they consider this regulation to be realistic, and that is why i voted in favour of it.
madam president, i voted categorically against this proposal for a european regulation on the collective achievement of neutrality. i cannot help mentioning the word "collective", which for those of us who have lived in this system, we know what it means in our historical context. now to the gist of the text. as part of the package of measures developed for target 55, this regulation covers greenhouse gas emissions resulting from direct human activities in land use. the implementing legislation introduces additional obligations and de facto penalties in the form of an increase in the target for the following year. those member states that cannot achieve the so-called targets again bans, again bureaucratic burdens with the sole purpose of pleasing the extreme green extremists in this room. we do not think about how this will affect agriculture, how this will affect forestry, how member states will comply with another absolutely unnecessary piece of legislation, drafted by officials who have never seen a forest outside their office boxes. these actions are killing the european economy. so i am firmly opposed to such green ideas, which are unfortunately being espoused by the majority in this chamber.
madam president, allow me also to explain why i supported the final compromise proposal for the revision of the land use and forestry regulations, known as lulucf for short. this is an important area with a high potential to contribute to the mitigation of emissions in the eu. the revision of the regulation aims to promote the treatment of forests and soils in such a way that they absorb the maximum greenhouse gases. at the same time, the natural functions of landscape, forests and agriculture must be preserved. i welcome the fact that the realistic eu-wide absorption capacity target of 310 million tonnes of co2 equivalent by the end of 2030 has been maintained with a binding four-year budget for 2026 to 2029 for each member state. the values for the years 2026 to 2029 shall be indicative only. the budgetary commitment over the whole period will be essential. a compromise was also reached on monitoring and reporting requirements, which should not increase the administrative burden on member states.
madam president, the process of improving the energy efficiency of buildings is undoubtedly important. but that's not going to happen with a ban. this process comes at a cost, as repairs, especially major repairs, are expensive and often involve large upfront investments. and this directive does not create european union funds to secure this investment. the balance between ambition and commitment must therefore be very delicate, and commitment comes with incentives and realistic expectations. the report fails to strike that balance between obligations and prohibitions on the one hand and incentives on the other. this imposes new obligations, raises ambitions compared to the commission's initial proposal to a degree that they are unattainable and very costly for both member states and the private sector. there are other problems with the text, not to mention the eternal themes that are inserted here, but overall it is a bloated proposal, full of elements and additions that are not related to the directive. additional administration, additional burden are not included in the commission's text. that is why i voted against this text.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has today adopted a revision of the energy performance of buildings directive and i would like to explain why i did not vote in favour of this proposal. of course i am in favour of energy savings, but i am convinced that the member states are capable of dealing with this requirement on their own behalf in the interests of their citizens, because we all want to save energy. i would therefore expect standards to be recommended at european level, for example. in addition, there is already legislation outside the directive dealing with energy efficiency improvements, including carbon pricing or an approved energy efficiency directive. it is necessary to ensure that this directive is not just another regulation for the member states, but in any case we already know today that it will bring a new administrative burden for officials and for the construction industry. it sets new requirements for homeowners that will be reflected in the overall price. it is therefore to be expected that the cost of renovation works will also increase. the european union is supposed to help member states cope with the challenges of emissions reduction and better functioning. but he's not supposed to do it for them.
the political groups and non-attached members have notified me of the appointments to the new subcommittee on public health. the list of the committee members will be published online and in the minutes.
the next item is the debate on the european council and commission statements on the conclusions of the special european council meeting of 9 february and preparation of the european council meeting of 23-24 march 2023 (2023/2549(rsp)).
president of the european council. – madam president, our last european council was marked by the participation of president volodomyr zelenskyy. he took part in a brief plenary session where we had the occasion to reaffirm our full support for ukraine for as long as it takes – because defeat for ukraine is not an option. president zelenskyy then met in small formats with leaders about intensifying their direct operational assistance, especially for more weapons. to win peace, we must strengthen our defence and our capabilities. three days after the russian attack, we took the decision to deliver arms and munitions to ukraine, and this marked a paradigm shift. i believe this was the birth of our european defence. strengthening our european defence means developing our industrial capacities and this is urgently needed to support ukraine. russian forces have fired between 20 000 and 50 000 artillery shells per day in recent months. ukraine needs ammunition to defend itself and that is why we have worked on the proposal of estonian prime minister kaja kallas to organise bulk orders to support the pace of our deliveries to our ukrainian friends, and high representative borrell has developed a concrete plan to implement this assistance to ukraine. ladies and gentlemen, we would like to see an escalation. we would like to see an escalation towards peace. but russia has not stopped escalating the war. it would only take one decision, just one decision, from the aggressor to engage in peace, to silence its weapons and to withdraw its troops behind the internationally recognised borders of ukraine. unfortunately, we do not see any signal from the kremlin in this direction. despite this, we continue to fight a battle for peace, the diplomatic battle. we support the just peace formula proposed by president zelenskyy. it is based on the un charter. it is based on respect for international law, and we are working hard to rally the international community behind peace efforts like we did in the run-up to the vote in the un general assembly calling for the withdrawal of russian forces from ukrainian territory. we also discussed, for instance, this with many contacts at the recent african union summit in addis ababa, and the high representative went to the united nations in new york for the vote. the resolution was supported by an overwhelming majority of 141 countries. this vote is encouraging, but the work of convincing others remains extremely challenging. ladies and gentlemen, honourable members, the economic consequences of the war in ukraine have forced us to ask ourselves the right questions about the competitiveness of our economy, in both the short and the long term. just one example to illustrate the challenge: the eu’s energy trade deficit in 2022 represented some 4% of our gdp, compared with 1.7% in 2021, while the united states has seen its surplus increase threefold during the same period. energy exports in united states have increased by 60% in 2022. last december, the european council asked the commission to present ways of helping our industry drive forward our green and digital transition, especially in the context of more targeted state interventions, including by the united states. we have decided on our short—term strength of action. first, relaxing the state aid regime in a targeted and time—limited way, coupled with greater flexibility in the use of all existing financial means. second point: making life easier for our businesses by streamlining procedures and authorisation. and third, stepping up training and retraining to provide our future sectors with the professionals they desperately need. but, ladies and gentlemen, we must also take action in the long term because we cannot allow the short—term measures to undermine our long—term strategy. this is precisely the debate we will have next week at our next european council on the competitiveness of the european economy. we expect the proposals requested from the commission tomorrow. in the long term, i think we need to work on three areas: investment, innovation and trade. first, investment. european companies, particularly smes, are having difficulty finding the capital they need to invest in innovation. the gap between the eu and the united states in terms of productive investment represents 2% of gdp. another example: the eu stock market capitalisation is less than half that of the us as a proportion of gross domestic product, and yet, europeans save far more than americans. we must close this gap and we know the solution. there is a solution. it is called the capital markets union, a project whose foundations were laid almost ten years ago, and it’s now crucial that we speed up legislative work to bring this essential project to fruition – to finance our economy, to create jobs and to ensure the well-being of all europeans for decades to come. c’est aussi pour cette raison qu’avec la présidente de la commission, la présidente de la banque centrale européenne et avec le président de la banque européenne d’investissement et le président de l’eurogroupe, nous avons lancé publiquement cet appel à accélérer le travail en lien avec l’union du marché des capitaux. mesdames et messieurs, le deuxième point sur lequel nous devons travailler porte sur l’innovation. nous nous souvenons tous qu’il y a quelques années déjà, la stratégie de lisbonne avait défini un objectif ambitieux: 3 % du pib devait être consacré à cette mobilisation de capacités vers l’innovation. or, nous voyons bien que le résultat n’est pas à la hauteur de l’objectif qui a été fixé à l’époque. nous devons faire plus. nous devons faire mieux. cela fera certainement partie du débat qui aura lieu au sein du conseil cette semaine. nous voyons par exemple, si je prends les plateformes digitales, que pour celles-ci, 90 % de leur capitalisation pour les 70 entreprises les plus importantes dans le monde relève des états-unis et de la chine. c’est montrer la faible proportion de la capacité de l’union européenne à se déployer sur des secteurs qui sont pourtant essentiels pour notre avenir commun. enfin, le troisième point que je souhaiterais mentionner à cette tribune, c’est l’enjeu du commerce. quelques réflexions sur ce sujet avec vous. le commerce a été pendant de très nombreuses années, j’ai envie de dire, un atout sacré pour l’union européenne. ce fut un moteur puissant de prospérité, de capacité à générer du développement et de l’amélioration des conditions de vie pour nos concitoyens. et nous voyons bien aujourd’hui, il faut le regarder avec lucidité, que si nous sommes dans la ligue des champions pour négocier des accords commerciaux, on a de plus en plus de difficultés à veiller à ce qu’ils soient mis en œuvre. ainsi, depuis 2006, sur quatorze accords commerciaux qui ont été conclus, pour l’immense majorité ils sont soit entrés en vigueur de manière provisoire, et non pas de manière définitive, soit leur entrée en vigueur est restée au point mort. on aura dans les mois qui viennent, avec par exemple le mercosur, le chili ou la question du mexique, un certain nombre de choix qui devront être faits. il faudra regarder la vérité en face. pour vous dire le fond de ma pensée sur le sujet, je pense que nous avons deux enjeux en lien avec notre politique commerciale pour l’avenir. le premier touche à notre méthode de décision, notre méthode de négociation. c’est la capacité à veiller à ce que nos sociétés, l’ensemble des acteurs directement concernés, puissent se sentir impliqués dans le processus, c’est-à-dire travailler pour plus de transparence, pour plus de confiance. il y a un bon exemple, je crois, c’est le brexit. le brexit a été l’occasion de mobiliser, sans agenda caché, en toute transparence, toutes les informations pour le parlement européen, pour les parlements nationaux, pour les sociétés civiles, pour les acteurs économiques. et il a été possible de travailler vite et, je crois, travailler bien sur ce sujet. sans doute cet exemple-là doit nous inspirer pour l’avenir en termes de méthode. puis un deuxième sujet, c’est le fond, et je mesure bien qu’il y a une volonté généreuse, sincère, de vouloir régler beaucoup de problèmes dans le monde au travers de l’instrument des accords commerciaux. mais peut-être faut-il considérer que des choix doivent être faits. je crois, pour ce qui me concerne, qu’un accord commercial doit contribuer d’abord à améliorer, à renforcer les relations commerciales – on a parfois tendance à l’oublier, c’est un objectif d’un accord commercial – et que cela doit aussi conduire à encourager davantage de soutien dans le monde pour les standards exigeants que nous souhaitons, par exemple pour les conditions de travail, par exemple pour les conditions environnementales. parfois, à vouloir trop embrasser, nous étreignons mal. peut-être devrons-nous avoir ce débat démocratique. il est certain que le parlement européen a, à cet égard, un rôle majeur à jouer. enfin, envisager notre avenir économique. la compétitivité de l’union européenne, c’est aussi regarder la relation que nous avons avec d’autres grands acteurs dans le monde, les états-unis bien sûr, la chine également. et dans ce cadre-là, il va de soi que, conformément aux traités, le conseil a bien l’intention d’assumer pleinement sa responsabilité en lien avec la politique extérieure de l’union européenne. c’est le sens des débats stratégiques qui ont eu lieu à plusieurs reprises au long des derniers mois au sein du conseil européen. quelques réflexions aussi sur ce sujet. d’une part, il est certain qu’il n’y a pas d’équidistance entre états-unis et chine. nous sommes un allié solide, loyal et fidèle des états-unis. nous développons avec ce pays des liens historiques, des liens qui portent sur les valeurs, des liens qui touchent aussi à la coopération économique et qui touchent très directement, on le voit bien, à l’enjeu de notre sécurité. et dans le même temps, la chine est une réalité. la chine est un fait, un acteur majeur sur la scène internationale, et c’est la raison pour laquelle il me semble qu’il y a trois éléments clés dans notre relation à la chine. d’une part, rester debout les yeux dans les yeux s’agissant des valeurs fondamentales, défendre les droits de l’homme, les principes démocratiques qui nous tiennent à cœur, qui nous sont chevillés au cœur. faire en sorte ensuite que l’on puisse s’engager pour tenter de réduire des dépendances qui peuvent coûter cher – on l’a vu avec la russie s’agissant des questions énergétiques. ça veut dire rééquilibrer les relations économiques avec la chine, et singulièrement pour les enjeux stratégiques pour l’avenir de la prospérité sur le plan de l’union européenne. et puis, troisièmement, il va de soi – personne n’en doute, je crois, ici –, qu’il n’y a pas d’autre option que d’engager un dialogue avec la chine sur des sujets globaux, ceux qui touchent au changement climatique, ceux qui touchent par exemple à la santé globale également. et c’est dans cette perspective-là que nous allons continuer, au départ du conseil, à assumer notre responsabilité dans la politique extérieure de l’union européenne, en nouant le dialogue avec les différents pays avec lesquels nous devons envisager un certain nombre de sujets de discussion. enfin, et je conclus par ce thème, qui n’est pas un thème mineur, le conseil européen a été l’occasion d’aborder en détail la question des migrations. nous savons que ce sujet migratoire est un sujet qui donne lieu à des tensions politiques, idéologiques, qui parfois est aussi instrumentalisé pour susciter de la polarisation au sein de nos sociétés. et nous pensons qu’il faut faire preuve de sang-froid, de rationalité dans l’analyse de cet enjeu. d’une part, nous faisons confiance au travail qui est mené par le parlement européen en lien avec la présidence tournante, afin de faire entrer en vigueur le pacte migratoire. c’est la dimension interne de la migration et nous veillerons à ce qu’au départ du conseil, il y ait aussi cette capacité de nous engager pour progresser sur ce sujet dans les prochains mois. d’autre part, sans attendre l’entrée en vigueur de ce pacte migratoire, il est certain que l’on doit faire mieux et plus en termes de coopération avec les pays tiers, avec les pays d’origine, avec les pays de transit. plus de coopération pour lutter ensemble contre les trafiquants et les criminels qui spéculent sur la misère et sur la pauvreté. plus de mobilisation aussi pour ouvrir des canaux légaux de migrations, ne pas laisser des trafiquants et des criminels décider qui a la capacité de venir vers l’union européenne, mais décider en conscience, dans le respect de l’état de droit, de la façon dont on gère de manière régulière, humaine, avec la fermeté nécessaire cette question migratoire. nous aurons l’occasion la semaine prochaine de faire aussi un point d’étape à la suite de cette discussion approfondie qui a eu lieu sur ce sujet-là lors du dernier conseil européen. nous aurons aussi l’occasion, et je termine par cela, d’évoquer la situation dans le cadre de la zone euro, puisque nous aurons un sommet de la zone euro avec la participation de paschal donohoe et de christine lagarde. ce sera l’occasion de regarder l’avenir de cette zone euro dans les circonstances que nous connaissons. enfin, mesdames et messieurs, chers collègues, nous mesurons chacune et chacun que nous sommes confrontés depuis quelques années à des moments qui nous bousculent, à des moments qui nous ébranlent. nos repères sont mis en doute, nos repères sont mis en question. mais les fondamentaux du projet européen, les valeurs de dignité personnelle, cette promesse de prospérité, cette garantie de sécurité, plus que jamais ces fondamentaux doivent être notre boussole pour l’avenir, pour donner un élan qui, de mon point de vue, touche à cette autonomie stratégique de l’union européenne, cette souveraineté qui est nécessaire. plus de résilience, plus d’influence dans le monde, moins de dépendance. c’est la boussole qui doit, je l’espère, dans l’unité, nous animer pour porter ce projet qui nous tient tellement à cœur.
president of the commission. – madam president, dear roberta, president michel, cher charles, honourable members, last friday, i met with president biden in washington. we had a very good discussion on the inflation reduction act. there is a striking symmetry between the inflation reduction act and the european green deal. both of them are simultaneously a climate strategy and a strategy for investment and growth. both of them include funding for just transition. and both include regulatory standards. only on carbon pricing – a very important instrument – the united states system is still much more limited than ours. in other words, the two biggest and most advanced economies in the world are now moving in the same direction. therefore, i welcome the inflation reduction act for its massive investment in clean tech. but, you might perhaps recall that, as we discussed already in november, some aspects of the inflation reduction act were of concern to us and needed solutions. now, i am happy to report that we have found solutions. on friday, president biden and i confirmed the understanding on electric vehicles that allows european carmakers to get access to the us market and thus to us tax breaks. second, we launched discussions on a critical raw materials agreement. the aim is to ensure that critical raw materials for electric vehicle batteries, whether they are extracted or processed in the european union, are treated in the same way as if they came from the united states. thus, this will secure strong supply chains for batteries in europe and ensure access to the us market. and, my third point, we started a transparency dialogue on incentives for the clean tech industry. that’s good news overall. but let me be clear: negotiations can only solve some of the most concerning issues. the big bulk of work still lies with us in europe. we europeans need to get better at nurturing our own clean tech industry. we need to speed up. we need to simplify procedures. we need to grant better access to public and private finances. if there’s any doubt, let me give you three figures that underscore why this is so important. the global investment in the clean transition topped usd 1 trillion last year, and that’s 30% more than the year before. if you look at the global market for net-zero technologies, it is set to triple by 2030. in other words, the race is on: the race on who is going to be dominant in this market in the future. we must get our act together if we want to stay frontrunners. we must nurture our own clean tech industrial base, both to create good, well-paying jobs here in europe and, of course, to ensure access to the clean solutions we need so urgently. that’s what the european green deal industrial plan is all about. the centrepiece of the green deal industrial plan are two legal acts. one is the net-zero industry act and the other one is the critical raw materials act. the commission is proposing those two legal acts this week, actually tomorrow. let me reflect on both. with the net-zero industry act, we are setting the ambition. by 2030, we want to be able to produce at least 40% of the clean tech that we need here to fulfil our green transition. therefore, the net-zero industry act is all about speed, speed and facilitation. we are facilitating permitting. we are working with regulatory sandboxes. we are creating simpler state aid schemes. and we are allowing for tax breaks and the flexible use of eu funds. in short, the net-zero industry act provides speed, simplification, and it provides funding. the second centrepiece is the critical raw materials act, which the college will also adopt tomorrow. this is about securing the supply for critical materials, which are badly needed for the digital and green transition. these minerals, as you know, power phones and electric vehicles, the batteries, the chips, the windmills, the solar panels, you just name it. in other words, we cannot function without critical raw materials. and the demand for critical raw materials will dramatically rise over the next several years and decades. but – and we’ve discussed that here in the hemicycle before – as you all know, today, the european union depends heavily on a few third countries for these strategic raw materials. just a few examples, and you know plenty of them, we get 98% of our rare earth supply from china, 93% of our magnesium from china, 97% of our lithium from china. and you can continue this list over and over again. honourable members, we know that the pandemic and the war have taught us a bitter lesson about overdependence. so, if we want to be independent, we urgently need to strengthen and diversify our supply chains with like-minded partners. i was last week also in canada, and this is a like-minded partner. you can see exemplary european companies there doing just that: diversifying and strengthening our supply chains, for instance, sourcing low-carbon nickel to produce batteries here in the european union. and canada is not only a reliable partner, it also shares our values. it guarantees that raw materials are mined with the highest standards for the environment and for workers. our critical raw materials act will support these efforts by european companies. we want to extract more ores and minerals here in the european union. we want to boost our processing capacity to at least 40% of annual consumption. and, of course, we need to recycle more. again, if i may jump back to canada, i visited a company that is able to recycle, from old batteries, 95% of the lithium, the cobalt and the nickel. 95%. it’s amazing to see that from old batteries. that’s the future. that’s what we have to have in the european union. so weit, meine damen und herren abgeordnete, zu unserer unterstützung für clean-tech-unternehmen. doch das thema der wettbewerbsfähigkeit ist natürlich viel, viel breiter. es betrifft unseren binnenmarkt, und genau damit beschäftigen wir uns mit zwei mitteilungen, die wir auch morgen veröffentlichen werden. wir alle wissen, dass der binnenmarkt die grundlage unseres wohlstands und unserer wettbewerbsfähigkeit ist. er wird in diesem jahr 30 jahre alt, aber das potenzial, das in diesem binnenmarkt steckt, ist noch längst nicht ausgeschöpft. wenn man sich die verschiedenen studien anschaut, die sich mit dem binnenmarkt beschäftigen, dann zeigen sie, dass wir mehr als 700 milliarden freisetzen könnten, wenn wir das gesamte potenzial des binnenmarktes ausschöpfen würden. das beginnt – sie kennen die themen – bei den kapitalmärkten oder bei forschung und entwicklung. wir wissen, dass wir so stark sind, weil wir stark sind bei grundlagenforschung, entwicklung und dann die marktfähigkeit herstellen. sie kennen die beispiele: die mrna-impfstoffe sind hier in europa entwickelt worden. mit ihrer hilfe konnten wir die pandemie überwinden. es gibt einen guten grund, warum diese zukunftsweisende innovation hier entwickelt worden ist. oder ein anderes beispiel aus der wasserstoffforschung. es gibt keinen anderen ort auf der welt, wo zwischen 2011 und 2020, also in der letzten dekade, mehr patente für grünen wasserstoff angemeldet worden sind als hier bei uns in europa. das sind nur zwei beispiele von ganz vielen. genau hier müssen wir ansetzen. in der tat, wir europäer haben uns das ziel gesteckt, bis zum jahr 2030 3 % unseres bruttoinlandsproduktes für forschung und entwicklung auszugeben. aber dieses ziel haben wir schon lange. das haben wir uns zum ersten mal 2002 gesteckt. wenn man sich mal die geschwindigkeit anschaut, mit der wir uns auf dieses ziel zubewegen – ja, dann kommen wir näher, aber sehr, sehr langsam. das reicht auf keinen fall, und vor allen dingen sind andere schneller, und andere schlafen auch nicht. während unsere ausgaben für forschung und entwicklung, wie gesagt, langsam steigen, sehen wir, dass unser anteil in der welt an forschungs- und entwicklungsausgaben in den letzten 20 jahren von 41 % auf 31 % gesunken ist. ich möchte daher mit dem schwedischen ratsvorsitz den staats- und regierungschefs vorschlagen, dieses gemeinsame europäische ziel für forschungsausgaben zu erhöhen und uns hinzusetzen und genau zu schauen, warum die investition in innovation, in forschung und entwicklung bei uns so langsam geht und wie wir besser werden können. das ist nicht nur notwendig für europas forscherinnen und forscher, wissenschaftlerinnen und wissenschaftler und unternehmen, sondern es wäre auch ein ganz, ganz starkes signal, dass wir es wirklich ernst nehmen mit der wettbewerbsfähigkeit unseres europäischen binnenmarktes. (beifall) mein zweiter punkt betrifft ein thema, das sie immer wieder hören: bürokratie. es sind europas unternehmen und beschäftigte, die den binnenmarkt zu einer der attraktivsten wirtschaftsregionen der welt machen. und zwar ganz egal, ob wir von industrieriesen sprechen, weltmarktführern, mittelständlern oder familienbetrieben – ihr erfolg ist europas erfolg. daher setzen wir alles daran, ihre arbeit zu erleichtern. wir wissen, dass die qualität der öffentlichen verwaltung und des rechtsrahmens entscheidend ist für die wettbewerbsfähigkeit. deshalb achten wir auch gemeinsam darauf, mit umfassenden folgenabschätzungen sicherzustellen, dass europas gesetze europas unternehmen nicht belasten, sondern unterstützen. doch oft ist es, und das wissen wir alle, nicht die einzelne nachweispflicht. oft ist es nicht die einzelne auflage, die ihnen das leben schwermacht, sondern es ist die riesensumme des ganzen. deshalb werden wir über die ressortgrenzen hinaus prüfen, was europas wettbewerbsfähigkeit wirklich voranbringt und worauf wir verzichten können. wir werden bis zum herbst konkrete vorschläge vorlegen, um berichtspflichten zu vereinfachen, und zwar um 25 % zu reduzieren. das ist nicht einfach, aber dieser anstrengung müssen wir uns unterziehen. unsere politischen prioritäten bleiben bestehen, weil sie richtig sind. das ist der europäische grüne deal, das ist die digitalisierung, und das ist die geopolitische resilienz. wir haben sie gemeinsam vor dreieinhalb jahren gesetzt, sie haben sich als richtig erwiesen, gerade und auch während dieser krisenzeiten. aber wir wollen dafür sorgen, dass ihre umsetzung mit weniger kosten verbunden ist, vor allem für unsere mittelständler. wir haben ja – wir können es beweisen, denn wir haben ja beim ausbau der erneuerbaren energien gezeigt, welche dynamik wir mit einer gezielten gesetzgebung für schnellere, flexiblere genehmigungsverfahren tatsächlich auslösen können. das sollte also künftig die regel sein, und es sollte nicht die ausnahme sein. noch ein letzter punkt: europas binnenmarkt ist stark. wir können stolz darauf sein. wir müssen alles daransetzen, seine stärke zu bewahren und auszubauen. daher sollten uns künftig eine reihe wichtiger leistungskennzahlen leiten: die wesentlichen leistungsindikatoren. sie können darüber auskunft geben, ob europas wirtschaft tatsächlich wettbewerbsfähiger wird und ob unsere diskussionen sich in die richtige richtung entwickeln. wie entwickelt sich der anteil privater investitionen? wächst die zahl der unternehmen mit schnellem internet? wie steht es um die beteiligung erwachsener an beruflicher weiterbildung – und so weiter und so fort. alle diese daten liegen vor. wir müssen dazu nichts neu erheben, aber wir machen nichts mit diesen daten. anhand dieser daten und anhand dieser wesentlichen leistungsindikatoren können wir objektivieren, ob und wie wir uns weiterentwickeln. das heißt, es sind nicht vermutungen, sondern man hat konkrete zahlen, nachweisgestützt. daher wird die kommission dem parlament künftig einmal im jahr bericht darüber erstatten, wie sich diese schlüsselzahlen, diese wesentlichen leistungsindikatoren weiterentwickeln. honourable members, with the war on our doorstep, with volatile energy prices and massive clean—tech investments worldwide, europe has to up its game. i am looking forward to develop the proposals we have put on the table today. this is our answer. long live europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president of the european parliament, commission, council, dear colleagues, good politics starts, first of all, with a reality check. eight out of ten global champions are from the us. apple’s market value alone is bigger than germany’s entire stock market. the 10 leading companies investing in quantum computing are in the us or in china, not one single company in europe. and in artificial intelligence, american firms invest six times more than european firms. europe, dear friends, let’s see: the reality is not competitive enough. and that’s why the epp is happy that competitiveness is now top of the agenda in the european union, thanks, first of all, to the swedish presidency, but also to the engagement from the european commission this week with the proposals. the epp was always advocating for a jobs, jobs, jobs agenda in the european union. and competitiveness is not an abstract word, it is about securing our european way of life, it’s about our welfare, about jobs. europe will never be sovereign if it is not competitive. and no doubt our strength is the single market, the largest market in the world. that is what we should use. and there we must still invest to enable more growth. we at the epp, we don’t believe that spending money will solve our problems, first of all. for us a competitive europe, what counts is trading with the world: best ideas, access to resources, efficient administration and a social approach. let me go to these concrete points. speaking about trade, the whole problem with the inflation reduction act (ira) started, let’s be honest, when parts of this house rejected the ttip negotiations. if we had ttip, we wouldn’t have to deal with ira now because our canadian and mexican friends have full access to america. a competitive europe needs trade, and in this legislature, europe is lacking fresh, ambitious approach when it comes to new free-trade agreements. we see no progress, for example, on mercosur: 800 million consumers, or if i may say friends because they are closely linked to europe. the friends from mercosur area are waiting for us. we need new free trade agreement with the united states and we need a free trade union with the democracies in the world. a second point: the competitive europe should also not limit innovation and forbid technologies. in our last session here in february in the in the european parliament, a majority decided to ban the combustion engine. i ask myself, who is now producing cars for areas, for regions like south america? i don’t think that they will have in 2035 enough electric charging infrastructure in south america that they can buy all-electric cars. the combustion engine is still necessary. we hear some different voices, stéphane from the liberals and others are telling us that combustion engine is necessary and bruno le maire is telling us that it is not any more the case. so we need a clear idea. we think that innovation and allowing technologies is the right answer, and not forbidding them. i want to underline that a third point for us is the strategy to raw materials. china is more and more dominating global resources, and that’s why we welcome very much the commission proposal for raw material strategy for europe. the fourth point is that we need competitiveness also with tackling cutting red tape, and i think with more ambition. in the short term, we should stop additional burdens for our economy in war times – they are struggling, they are having enough problems – they don’t need additional burdens. and in the mid and long run, i agree with ursula von der leyen that we set limits to bureaucracy by the european commission and put all vice-presidents in charge to realise it. i welcome the commission proposals now for a competitiveness check on all new eu regulation and to reduce the reporting obligations for our economies and make our single market more competitive with less bureaucracy. so a competitive europe, european regulation and cutting red tape have to go hand-in-hand. and, above all, we need a competitive europe that must guarantee a social europe. being social means providing people with a job and with a decent income, especially our young generation. our youth needs quality jobs. we need jobs, jobs, jobs. dear friends, europe invented the cars because it was competitive. let us invent now the next step of a digital age, like, for example, a digital airbus project. let’s make europe the competitive powerhouse of this world.
the ruins, trenches and corpses piled up in bajmut are already the symbol of the war of attrition that putin is pursuing one year after the failure of his first attempt at conquest. putin has already lost the war. now our responsibility is to continue to help ukraine win. with his army in tatters, his economy battered by the biggest sanctions in history and his international standing increasingly isolated, putin has no choice but to perpetuate the war until he gets the allies tired. we cannot allow the long war of attrition to threaten europeans and our economies. high energy prices, the rise in the cost of food, with a food cpi already above 18%, and the unaffordable price of housing are shaking the future of europeans. protecting the most vulnerable is our collective responsibility. the decisions we make today will shape the future. there is no better solution than to accelerate the ecological transition and energy autonomy. and most urgently, reform of the electricity market to limit permanently the impact of gas on our bills and not to depend on third countries to heat our homes. the current model is not in a position to withstand a stress situation like this. renewables accounted for 10% in 1998; today, 50%, and forecasts point to 74% in 2023. the creation of zero-emission industries, the promotion of technological competitiveness and the diversification of supply chains are key factors in making the european union's prosperity and strategy a reality in the coming decades. the financing needs of the green deal industrial plan are enormous. the easing of requirements for member states to help companies in the green and digital transition and not lose competitiveness in the face of the inflation reduction act (ira) and the biden administration is necessary, but also companies have an obligation to protect the lung that keeps the industry alive, which is the working class. the european commission and the european central bank now recognise what we social democrats have always defended. companies have room to raise wages, to take on wage increases. we will not allow workers' wages to lose purchasing power while corporate profits increase. the next few decades will witness the greatest economic modernization of our time. in the face of the necessary change we need to launch the reform of the stability and growth pact, which must incorporate the objectives of the european pillar of social rights and a permanent financial instrument similar to nextgenerationeu or sure to guarantee the necessary public investments. ladies and gentlemen, in a context where war has returned to europe, we must redouble our efforts and our ambitions. everyone in their right mind wants peace, but the kremlin won't give up its weapons. diplomacy must not give up its mission. but what we democracies cannot under any circumstances allow is to leave ukraine to its fate. and the way to do that is to keep our unity. mr weber, i see that you are very concerned about the position of the social democratic governments with regard to ukraine. and i'm going to make one thing very clear. you can rest easy. the commitment of the social democratic governments to the defence of ukraine is clear, firm and forceful. perhaps he should be concerned about what he has within his own ranks and his political group's alliances with the far right that is friendly to putin.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i may be speaking to you on a subject which will surprise you as a green, but it is the subject on which manfred weber spoke to us and stéphane séjourné has just spoken to us. competitiveness. a green who talks about competitiveness. what's going on? is it because he's 60 that he starts talking about this kind of thing? no, not at all. but i'd like to get back to basics. what is competitiveness? it is the ability to offer goods or services of high value at the lowest possible price. so it's a ratio between a numerator and a denominator. you're gonna say i'm teaching you a lesson, but you have to remember the basics. the cost is the denominator. do you seriously think that europe can or wants to be the champion of low cost? no, i'm not going. we have a social structure that we take pride in. yes, we want to pay our workers properly. we want goods and services to be produced in an environmentally friendly way. and all of this is costing extra money. so we'll never be the champion of the low cost. so the only way for the european union to be competitive is to be the champion of high value. and so the question we have to ask ourselves is, what are high-value goods and services in the 21st century? in a sense, the european union has so far failed to embrace the digital revolution. but what is the big game of the 21st century? it's about making our societies and economies compatible with the biophysical limits of the planet. this is where competitiveness in the 21st century comes into play. and so for the european union, it is not just one issue amongst others. this is the issue that will determine whether our economies will be world champions or not in the 21st century. and i have to say, i'm worried. and i worry especially when i listen to manfred weber. not by listening to you, madam president, not by listening to you, mr president michel, but by listening, by feeling a growing resistance in this house, but also in the council, to the ambition of the european green pact. because the european green deal, we can say that it is a climate project, yes, of course, because the climate issue is a matter of survival. but it is actually a strategy for competitiveness. that's exactly what it is. so to slack off now, as we feel with cars or the energy performance of buildings, well, to slack off is actually to sabotage our economy. you know, today the european automotive industry says that we're still not going to play the american or chinese champions of the electric car. but this is not the result of over-regulation in europe. it is the result of a deliberate choice by our automotive industries in europe, to choose the past over the future. and that, madam president, is the reason for the lack of investment in europe, because we have a rentier capitalism in europe. it is no longer a capitalism of investors or entrepreneurs. the preference for short-term profits, and this is particularly evident in the case of the car, is stronger than the preference for investing to ensure long-term profits. we must recover this ambition to be entrepreneurial and innovative. and that means getting out of the short-term comfort of rentier capitalism. that's what the greens are calling for. and so, contrary to what one might think, the greens are not economically backward. i think we understand the challenges of this century better than anyone else.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, mr von der leyen, mr michel, ladies and gentlemen, the next european council will be a major event for you. on behalf of the ecr group, i would like to reiterate, first of all, our support for the ukrainian people, who are called upon to resist the russian invasion amidst atrocious daily suffering. and while it is good news that we have achieved independence from russian gas and oil in a short time, we do not think it is good news to shift our energy dependence to china for years to come. we must not repeat the mistakes of the past, nor can we hope, at such a delicate time, to find ourselves in an industrial conflict between europe and the united states. but let us take a step back to the last european council when, at the request of the italian government, the migration situation was discussed again. european leaders have identified initiatives that are moving in the right direction: the european union's external action should be stepped up, cooperation on returns promoted, and external border controls strengthened to combat human trafficking in the mediterranean. unfortunately, reality did not wait for the byzantines in brussels, and on the very same day that the italian military authorities were rescuing thousands of migrants in the middle of the sea, the tragedy of cutro unfortunately occurred. not the first of its kind, probably not the last. there is one bitter fact we cannot escape: the more people who put their lives in the hands of divers, paying them handsomely, the more dead at sea we'll have to mourn together. looking back, we can only see the failure of european immigration policy from any angle. for our socialist and leftist colleagues, the recent events have been yet another pretext to attack a government of the opposite political colour. i will not now be confronting you with the many migrants who have died in italy as in spain, greece and france, each time the left has been in charge of these countries. nor will i list the consequences of unbridled immigration in european cities, driven by that crazy ideology called "no borders". i would simply like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that your hypocrisy on these issues is only comparable to your inability to find solutions. when will we finally share the principle that, regardless of our political colours, immigration must be governed and not suffered? that we cannot leave it to the boatmen or the mercenary militias to decide who has the right to enter europe and who does not? nobody ever thought that the italian government could solve everything in four months. immigration is a complex issue: fortunately, the government has clear ideas. we certainly know that immigration is a european problem and as such needs a european response. we will therefore be giving careful consideration to the 'communication on integrated european border management' launched by the commission yesterday. urgent, concrete and effective action is needed. it takes courage to make the right choices: we do not need the political exploitation of blood, which is typical of those who do not value life.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in this debate on women and greeting the two guests who are a tangible example of success, courage and female empowerment i have decided to draw attention to an important issue: the topic of eating disorders. this is a dramatic and worryingly increasing phenomenon, which mainly affects the female universe and about which there is still not enough talk. today in italy we celebrate the day for the prevention and treatment of these disorders, from anorexia to bulimia, which affect women in 90% of cases, with an increasingly early onset. the dramatic body changes of adolescence, coupled with the increasingly pervasive, unchecked action of social media, which proposes models of thinness and success that are increasingly extreme, can be disorienting to our most fragile girls. today's event is therefore a celebration of a man's initiative, not a woman's, to show that this is a theme that affects everyone: the european parliament has been a key player in the development of the european union's policy on education and training. this brave man is stefano tavilla, the father of giulia, who suffers from bulimia nervosa and was taken from her life at the age of 17, on march 15, 2011. since that day, this father, together with 60 associations, has been wearing this lilac fiocco all over italy, not only to inform, but also to fight prejudice, to demand affordable care, to create a support network for all those people and families who share this tragedy. and we are on his side, ideally and concretely. that is why we are calling on this house today to keep a high guard over this phenomenon and, in view of the international day against eating disorders, which will be celebrated on 2 june, we are calling for a week of initiatives on this subject, so that what happened to giulia - and is happening today, as i am speaking to you now - does not happen to many girls in europe again.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i asked to speak on this point because i was very curious about the title: more europe, more jobs: building the competitive economy of tomorrow. the title is catchy, but then you go back to the committee, you start working on the dossiers and the problems of competitiveness begin. we've been told since the beginning of this term that the green deal would leave no one behind. but the numbers tell us otherwise. just a few weeks ago, ford announced that it would cut 3,800 jobs in the name of the electric transition. that's not good. we are still insisting on a militant environmentalism which puts the human being in the background and does not take into account that europe is going in one direction and the rest of the planet is going in another. it is difficult, ladies and gentlemen, to be competitive when the union's policies are so zealous, for example, in the field of climate and energy. let us consider, for example, the subject of packaging regulations, which always follow the same method: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the proposals are implemented without an impact assessment, without listening to the companies companies who call these proposals wrong and dangerous. so, ladies and gentlemen, everyone likes the idea of competitiveness, but our employers ask us to put it into practice and not just talk about it.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, commissioner, the failure of silicon valley bank and two other smaller us banks is a cause for concern, as it is the biggest failure since the great financial crisis of 2008. unfortunately, i have to say that the lessons of the 2008 crisis seem to have been forgotten. we have been warning for a long time in my group about the risk of the ongoing reversal of financial regulation. and the case of silicon valley bank gives us reason. since trump's deregulatory actions in 2018, silicon valley bank has been subject to less stringent regulatory scrutiny and requirements on the grounds of proportionality. but i regret to say that the same trend is being observed in the union, where we are moving dangerously towards a basle agreement which will not respect international standards. this crisis should also be a wake-up call to complete the banking union, as we have known for a long time that we must do. a comprehensive european deposit insurance system would increase confidence and limit the risk of bank failures. it is also striking that in the last few hours the promise to refrain from bailing out the financial sector with public money has been completely broken again. the federal deposit insurance corporation in the united states has extended deposit guarantees to all depositors and, in addition, the federal reserve board has announced that it will accept collateral at face value. in other words, private profit, loss for all. if we want to reduce banking risk in europe: common deposit insurance, strengthening our recovery and resolution framework and strict compliance with the basel framework.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, commissioner, the bankruptcies of silicon valley bank, silvergate and signature bank were accidents waiting to happen. two lessons should be drawn from this experience. first, central banks should stay the course and withstand pressure to deviate from their present policy trajectory, not only to fight inflation, but also to contain excessively speculative behaviour. should central banks give in to the pleas for monetary expansion, then new impulses are given to the disastrous cycle of excessive debt accumulation and asset bubbles ending always in major financial accidents. secondly, financial regulation or financial regulators always tend to fight the last war. a better way to financial stability are higher capital requirements for banks or financial institutions in general to ensure absorption of shocks and lower the probability of bailouts by taxpayers. this lesson is very relevant for the ongoing trilogues on the banking package. it is not too late to finalise the post-crisis reforms 15 years after 2008 with the faithful implementation of the basel recommendations.
madam president, madam commissioner, the scriptures tell us about the foolish virgins and the wise virgins. in the 2008 crisis the european union behaved like the foolish virgins and when the lord came they had no oil in the candle. at that time the european central bank took much longer than its american, japanese or british counterparts to lower interest rates or to buy assets in the markets. national governments were forced to come to the rescue of their financial institutions in complete isolation, until well into the crisis, because there was no solidarity reaction. the result was some really remarkable austerity programmes and a torpedo on the european project's waterline. did we do something right? we did something right. we have created the single supervisory mechanism for the supervision and regulation of banking, insurance, stock markets and the european systemic risk board. but we still have a few things to consider: the completion of the capital market, the european fund insurance and the crisis management mechanisms. and a word of caution: i am fully aware that the central bank's main objective is to maintain price stability, but without forgetting the other objectives of the treaty, without forgetting that it must act in such a way as not to jeopardise growth, which is very weak and may lead to recession. the interest rate policy of the central bank is independent and must be guided by these two objectives.
madam president, thank you commissioner for being with us for this important debate. the failure of silicon valley bank teaches us some lessons. commissioner has already outlined several of them, but i want to stress two of them in particular. the first is that an ambitious prudential regulation is a necessary condition not only for having healthy and solid banks, but also for preventing financial dominance. the second lesson is that either there is a fully fledged bank crisis management framework able to deal with both idiosyncratic and systemic crises or, in the end, only citizens pay the bailout bill. in the eu, we were pretty good on the first point – although the work has yet to be completed and i agree with most of the things that our rapporteur fernández said on the basel iii negotiations – but momentum was lost on the second part, the bank crisis management framework. if we really want to strengthen the banking system and make economic policy truly independent, we have to deliver as soon as possible on one thing: the completion of the banking union.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, given that the present us banking crisis is very different from previous ones, we cannot help but emphasize these considerations. first of all: the failure of silicon valley bank was triggered by the default of a financial and banking platform linked to crypto assets. are we sure that the european banking system is free from the same risk? secondly: the monetary policy undertaken by the ecb in the last year on raising rates to counter rising inflation has exposed the financial banking system to systemic risks such as those of 2008 in the extreme: the sudden rise in interest rates was matched by a fall in the prices of bonds in circulation, creating potential liquidity problems in the banking system. it could manifest what economists call the "black swan theory". these considerations should prompt the ecb, as is already happening with the fed, to immediately revise its outlook on interest rate dynamics, along with more reassuring communication to citizens and businesses, already hugely affected by the recent rise in the cost of borrowing and lending.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the left in this parliament is out and about looking for those responsible for the massacres at sea, and has come to shamefully accuse prime minister meloni and deputy prime minister salvini, and with him the italian coastguard, which is instead engaged every day in rescuing boatmen. but none of them has ever thought of blaming the socialist prime minister sanchez for the tragedy in melilla. is it because it is the expression of the same political party? the truth is that the guilty ones with blood on their hands, as you say, are the divers and, with them, the permitted, false proponents who deceive desperate people with a promised land, which unfortunately does not exist. it is our duty, your duty, to stop the traffickers of men, as pope francis said, and that is the goal of all our political action. absolutely firm and no leniency against these criminals. at the next european council we expect europe to propose positive action to combat human trafficking, to stop deaths at sea and to protect our borders. the tragedy of cutro is only the symbolic culmination of a tragedy which has been going on for years, but which we intend to stop at the root, by preventing departures, by implementing serious development programmes in the countries from which these people are fleeing, by welcoming those who are entitled to them in a safe and legal way. good policy, if it is to be so, must take responsibility for deciding, instead of postponing a problem which has been on the shoulders of the usual countries for years, italy in the first place.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are with you on the acceleration, we hope, of the asylum and migration package, for a solidarity that is finally effective. we hope so. but frankly, we must say that we can no longer bear to hear europe always being blamed, because the political responsibilities are there and they are visible. i have never seen a far-right government ask for a stronger european competence on the management of migrants, while i have seen far-right governments ask europe for money to finance walls and i have seen far-right governments, like meloni's and salvini's, endlessly repeating the worst anti-immigrant slogans: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and then, faced with the slaughter of innocents, like cutro, what do you do? they say europe is not doing enough. but it's too comfortable! we are inventing a new crime with the huge words "we will go after traffickers all over the globe" terrestrial, let's mark it! and we are not clarifying the responsibilities for rescues when it is the same government that has made a race against the odds to save people at sea. and failure to rescue is a crime, too, along with the traffickers. and then you end up doing karaoke for salvini's birthday and who cares when there are dead people and coffins. if you have an interest in the nation, don't embarrass us and take your responsibility.
mr president, at the beginning i thought that my speech was going to express once again, i was going to say, a form of dismay at the fact that the european union is unable to find a solution to the question of rescues at sea and legal migration routes. i heard that people were talking about people and not just quantity, so maybe there's a glimmer of hope ahead. indeed, against all odds, the temporary protection directive was somehow implemented 20 years after it was adopted, so it is a form of hope. so, could we not also relaunch a genuinely european rescue mechanism at sea? there are several advantages to this. firstly, without denigrating, and on the contrary, i insist, the action of ngos on the ground, it would help to avoid the terrible tragedies that take place in the mediterranean sea and elsewhere. then we could frame the arrivals and greet the people with dignity. at the same time, we should establish legal migration routes that ensure the predictability of arrivals and that allow european states and migrants to find a common interest in them. and in this way, i believe, europe would emerge stronger.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, for the umpteenth time we are standing before this house with the terrible images of a tragedy like that of cutro still before our eyes: the broken lives of children, women, men who had placed their hopes and dreams of freedom in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the baltic sea is not affected by the recent events. i look into the eyes of those who have decision-making responsibilities. i look the italian government in the eye and see that it has not yet been able to give any answers. and it is unbearable that a minister should start a syndicate about why a mother and father choose to entrust the lives of their children to such a dangerous journey. we know them, as we know the answers this house must give, from legal immigration channels to binding redistribution mechanisms. ladies and gentlemen, let us not simply say, once again, what we are waiting for, because otherwise the answer the next day will always be the same: let's wait until it's too late!
mr president, dear colleagues, the shipwrecks on the mediterranean are heart-breaking human tragedies. blaming the legitimate border protection efforts of member states, however, is a very dishonest and a completely wrong approach. the underlying reason for these tragic events, in reality, is the european indulgence and lack of sanction concerning illegal entries into the union. it is the pro-migration statements, the quotas and the impunity for ngos that cooperate with criminals – smugglers – that cause these deaths. italy faces the continuous arrival of more and more ships, with an estimated 650 000 people set to leave africa just this year, as forecast by intelligence services. it is european migration policy that must be placed on a completely new footing in order to avoid more human tragedies at sea. to stop the vicious circle, the first thing to do is to start protecting europe’s borders so that there would be no point for smugglers and migrants to even begin their dangerous journey. also, all illegally arrived migrants in europe who have no right to stay must be transported back home. unless we do these things, there will be no end to the tragedies that we have witnessed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the images of the bodies on the beach of cutro and those floating off the coast of libya do not give me peace. my mind went back to ten years ago, when in lampedusa i was among the first to rescue those 500 people and to inspect 368 bodies. what has happened and what is still happening over time is the manifestation of a europe that is unable to cope with the phenomenon of migration. it's a disgrace! this is outrageous! we can no longer tolerate politics and bureaucratic backlashes on people's lives. a european search and rescue mission is also needed to restore humanity to politics. i want you all to imagine for a moment that those children returned from the sea are your children, your grandchildren, our children, our grandchildren. so what? then let 's start working together: parliament, council and commission, in the knowledge that everything can be negotiated: but not the core values, not life.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, italy, the marvellous italian seas, are becoming cemeteries for thousands of human beings, women and children. cutro's grief has overwhelmed us. and the italian government has failed to save the lives of children, women and men and has dared to say, with minister piantedosi, that it is the fault of those who leave with their children. it's a slap in the face to centuries of civilization. human lives must always be saved and those fleeing persecution and war must be welcomed. this horror fills us with shame, not only italians, but all european citizens. i was elected four years ago, and from day one i called for a revision of the dublin treaties, which place the responsibility for dealing with a migration phenomenon of epochal size and impact on one country, and which affects all european countries. 26,000 dead since the lampedusa massacre to date. you know what i mean? in the face of a naive, unprepared and clumsy italian government, at least europe should realize that this tragic reality can only be faced by each of us taking our own responsibility: investing people, resources and money to save lives today and create the conditions to cut off the business of human beings tomorrow. europe must make a choice of dignity and humanity and respect its roots. if it doesn't, our seas will still be water graveyards.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you are hypocrites. the dead at sea are the sole responsibility of the european union. bonhomie and pro-immigration policies have led to more departures and therefore more deaths at sea. your pathetic slogans for welcoming people are a disservice to migrants and to the citizens of the european union. it's embarrassing your attitude to immigration: on the one hand, you talk about humanity, then leave italy alone, with all the responsibility of the reception. you gave 7 billion euros to erdogan. yet boats continue to leave turkey. you talk about european solidarity, but the numbers on relocations are practically ridiculous, there is no rotation of european ports and nobody wants economic migrants. enough of your solidarity propaganda! we must stop illegal immigration and seriously combat the pirates. and then, you know, with all this rhetoric and all your hypocrisy, with all the deaths at sea: how do you look in the mirror in the morning?
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, two months ago one of the most dangerous bosses of the italian mafia, matteo messina denaro, was arrested. an important achievement that needs to be dedicated to the memory of law enforcement officers who lost their lives fighting crime. two of them, falcone and borsellino, were martyrs of the mafia massacres. today, organized crime is increasingly diversified and uses new technologies. but as always, he's doing business by exploiting the weakest: vulnerable and blackmailed immigrants are the ones most often used as labour in european cities. the crime first asks for 8 000 or 9 000 euros to get to europe and then continues its chain of exploitation. many of them end up doing low-wage, no-contract work and in the worst-case scenario, end up on our streets begging, stealing, dealing or prostitution. that is why the italian government recently decided to increase the penalties for scuba divers to 30 years in prison. those who work on the skin of the weakest do not deserve leniency. to fight crime we must have faith in the law and especially in those who are deputized to enforce it. stop criminalizing our police force, as the left has done in recent years. our officers need support and resources.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to combat organized crime, we must remember that it is vital for these organizations to have support and cover in the economic, financial, political and institutional world. we can cut off the visible branches by locking up the bosses and the manoeuvring: it's only fair and proper. but the real challenge is to uproot these organizations: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections to the european parliament. in addition, european countries prefer to ignore certain criminal organizations, such as those involved in the trafficking of waste to the poorest countries, a trafficking closely linked to arms trafficking, often covered up by international cooperation or by associations pretending to have humanitarian aims. one last word about the mafia: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what is discrimination? the dictionary says it's a distinction made as a result of a judgment or a classification. and do you know what the paradox of this directive against discrimination is? the paradox is that this directive has too many classifications but not enough. for example, you had to add the plus to the lgbtq acronym because you ran out of letters in the alphabet to classify diversity. but the world is made up of diversity, of individuals, each different from the other. and how are you going to rank all of them in your charts? inevitably, some will be left out and discriminated against. what do most of the world's constitutions say? that all men are the same? let us return to this shared and sacred principle and try to give everyone equal opportunity, which does not mean ad hoc laws for every individual in the world. rules, to work, must be general and abstract. the member states have blocked this directive because the problems of implementation are real and those real problems are the ones that citizens face every day and that policy should deal with more.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the atrocities of the islamic regime in iran are becoming more and more chilling. hundreds of girls have been poisoned in numerous schools across iran. it was mass poisoning. someone wants to deny iranian women their right to education. it is a form of revenge against the many female students who participated in the protests and made videos posted on social media where they remove their headscarves and shout anti-government slogans. we also saw five girls doing an islamic veilless dance in the middle of the street: well, those five girls were arrested and forced to apologize with their heads covered. the prohibitions imposed by the islamic dictatorship fully represent their conception of women: with the islamic veil, submissive, uneducated, an inferior being. we must support the girls who are fighting and condemn the acts of terror carried out by the regime against women's freedom. just be quiet, just close your eyes. - what? life. freedom is free.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that european citizens are in some way forcing parliament to discuss how to safeguard bees, creatures which are fundamental to the role of pollination and therefore to human life and the biological balance. the value of what bees do worldwide can be estimated at about 153 billion euros a year, about 15 billion in europe alone. we therefore call, without further ado, for at least four immediate actions: funds and a programme for the rational restoration of a wildflower habitat in europe; redirect cap payments to support bee pollination services and re-population where bees have become drastically rare; reform the regulation of pesticides to prevent future harm to bees; to improve the biosecurity of soil and potted plants currently on the market. we must all remember that with the suffering of these creatures, the entire biological heritage and the entire economy linked to it is at risk. so, not acting would be unconscious.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on 10 april 1998 i was a young activist and a passionate follower of the irish question. the good friday agreement has taught me a lesson that i carry with me, and that is that it is also necessary to try to understand the other person's reasons when dealing with a political issue. in this case, then, we are talking about an agreement which has served to end decades of bloodshed on our continent. that is why, among the appeals that have already come in the last few days, i emphasize that of the christian churches, precisely because religion has been used by both sides in some phases of the conflict to make it more acrimonious. so their appeal, in my opinion, is one of the most important. i remember well how, in these 25 years, the agreement has proved to be fragile in some respects, but this fragility has always been in the context of a discussion or, why not, of a political conflict which has never again seen weapons used, of a political debate as one should have in democracies, a debate which must remain purely political. the 25th anniversary today comes at a good time because, as the president of the commission has said, the united kingdom has reached an agreement with brussels which i believe will promote trade and development, and in this sense i hope that in the coming months and years this house will be able to stop having that often hostile attitude towards london which still results from not having accepted the outcome of brexit. i think that this year, the geopolitical crisis that we are experiencing, not only in ukraine but in other parts of the world, has taught us that the relationship that our capitals have with london is based on values, on membership in international organizations and on the fight against international terrorism, which transcends any possible division and distance. it is clear that our debates here are often rhetorical, but events are the result of each historical period. every age has its protagonists. the work of women and men is what determines the achievement of political objectives. that is why i believe that in our political activities it is important to take as an example those who twenty-five years ago in ireland and the united kingdom were able to work for peace, putting an end to decades of conflict. i would like to make a plea to all of us to try to live up to the standards of those who have gone before us, the men who made our continent great, to achieve the goals of peace, prosperity and freedom in all its dimensions.
yes, that is exactly what i announced, in fact. ms riba, last one on this point, please.
i ask you, dear colleague, also to listen to my announcements earlier. now we go to the agenda. with the agreement of the political groups, i wish to put to the house the following proposals for changes to the final draft agenda. on thursday, firstly, the report by mr lagodinsky on the request for the waiver of the immunity of anna júlia donáth is to be added to the votes. then, due to the withdrawal of the candidacy of martin klus, the report by mr kuhs on the nomination of the slovak nominee for a member of the court of auditors is withdrawn. if there are no objections, these changes are approved. we now move to changes requested by political groups. for wednesday, the greens group has requested that the council and commission statements on ‘the rights of children in rainbow families, especially the case of italy’ be added as the last point in the afternoon. i give the floor to ms reintke to move this request.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, ‘if you are a parent in one member state, you are a parent in every member state’ – these are the words of our commission president ursula von der leyen. yet in the last weeks, we witnessed yet another attack on rainbow families in europe, this time in italy. the practice to recognise certificates of same-sex parents has been restricted by the interior ministry and actually one person who is affected by this is sitting in the tribune, giuseppe sala, the mayor of milan. it’s great that you are here. we stand with you defending the lgbti community. i want to be crystal clear: we are not surprised by these attacks but, still, we are outraged. and we will stand in solidarity with the community in italy and everywhere in europe. and this is why it is absolutely important that we have this debate right now, because for this parliament, all eu citizens and all families are worth the same and deserve fundamental rights. and if i may say, madam president, we have, together with other groups, come up with a compromise for the title. the title would now read ‘the rights of children in rainbow families and same-sex parents, in particular in italy’, to be discussed tonight with an extended session by one hour and to be voted by rcv.
thank you, so that would mean that the alternative proposal of brando benifei is now not on? or will i give you the floor, mr benifei? i don’t know what compromise between whose groups has been reached.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, dear colleagues, the s&d also proposed a title along the same lines of the greens who have just presented it. our priority is that a debate on the ongoing situation actually takes place, so we are happy to converge on the greens’ proposal for the title and to support this debate. and thanks also from our side to the mayor of milan here, giuseppe sala, and all the mayors that in italy are working to support this fight for the rights of all children.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, we are not against a debate about the rights of children in rainbow families, because these are important topics to discuss, but we cannot pretend that they are restricted to only one particular member state. pretending that they are restricted to only one particular member state – even though it might be politically convenient for some people here – doesn’t do anything to support rainbow families across the eu. we have to decide what kind of parliament we want to be. are we a european, credible parliament where we discuss common european challenges? or are we nothing but a theatre where national opposition parties can attack national governments because they are too weak to make an impact at home? let’s leave national politics to national parliaments. i listened very carefully some time ago when stéphane séjourné said in strasbourg, ‘we will systematically vote against any change of the agenda that targets national issues’. and i also heard iratxe garcía pérez say we need to respect the european debates in the european parliament. let us show today that those principles are there not only when they suit us. so we propose the following debate title: ‘the rights of children in rainbow families’.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, without going into the substance of the matter, there is a fundamental error in the request of the left green and red groups which i would like to make clear to everyone. the present italian government is being accused of something it did not do and for which it obviously cannot be responsible. in italy today there is no law authorizing the transcription of minors born abroad by homosexual or same-sex couples. the prefect of milan, like all prefects in italy, is not a politician, but a public official who applies the laws in force. i know this and the italian leftists know it, who, in the ten years they ruled italy, could have made all the laws they wanted. they did not do so and are now using the good behaviour of an italian civil servant to sue their government, which has been in office for less than five months, in the european parliament. this is a disgrace, in my opinion, wherever you look.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear colleagues, i think the last half an hour gave us a clear idea and a proof that obviously the european parliament, in these kind of agenda debates, is becoming more and more a platform for national debates. i think that’s obvious. we feel it all in this room and i want to wish all the best to all contributors to the debate for good headlines for tomorrow in spain, in france, wherever you want to see these debates. i think, as the european parliament, we cannot continue like this. that is my feeling. we have to focus on european issues. and i want to underline, like jeroen already did and last time iratxe, who is today not with us, did the same, saying we have to focus on european issues when we spoke about spain. i quote now stéphane, when he was last time saying on behalf of renew, ‘but, dear colleagues, in view of the challenges facing in the coming months in front of us, let’s avoid these changes to the agenda. my group will systematically vote against requests to modify the agenda on purely national issues.’ that’s what stéphane said last time. i really ask us all now, having in mind that we only have one request for rule of law, and that is about greece, and having in mind that in six weeks in greece there will be elections, if it’s even worth only having a national debate about this and in having in april a resolution. dear friends, it’s purely driven by national interests to have a campaign here. that’s why, let’s refuse and let’s vote against.
i put the request of the green group to a vote by roll call. it is adopted, and therefore we have a commission statement on the rule of law in greece that is added as a joint debate with the commission statement on ‘the 2022 rule of law report – the rule of law situation in the european union’. the statement will be wound up with a resolution to be voted in april. now the epp group has requested that there be a commission statement on the rule of law in spain and a commission statement on the rule of law in malta. (laughter)i think the first part of this session about respect we have ignored immediately after the end of the ceremony. i have a list of requests. i will read them out and i will ask the individual groups whether they will maintain them. so first of all, to the epp group, are those requests on the table? have they been made?
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, as we very much indicated, we believe this is a house to have european debates, but we have been inspired. so, if we are going to have a joint debate about rule of law with the rule of law report and rule of law in greece, we believe there are some other issues that could be dealt with in this same debate. the first one is the rule of law in spain, because the behaviour of this spanish government is moving further and further away from respect of the rule of law. when they don’t like the council on the judiciary, they simply adopt a law to prevent it from functioning. when they need an independent attorney general, they appoint their dear, loyal party colleague, the former minister of justice. when they don’t like democracy, when they find it too complicated, they rule by decree. remember, the s&d stood here on other countries saying ruling by decree is ruling like a dictator. so either you are ruling like a dictator, or this is something we need to discuss in the european parliament tomorrow. so our request is a debate on the rule of law in spain, with a resolution to be adopted in april.
who would like to speak against? ms gualmini. can i please ask you to respect your colleagues who have asked for the floor? please, ms gualmini, go ahead.
actually, how do you dare to ask for a debate on the rule of law in spain when you know the only problem with that is that you are blocking the renewal of the general council of the judiciary after four years. so really, this is really anti-democratic and outrageous, colleagues.
i put the request to the vote by roll call. (parliament approved the request)therefore there will be a commission statement on the rule of law in malta, and a resolution. thank you very much. one and a half hours later, the agenda has been adopted. (the order of business was thus established)
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 23-24 march 2023 (2023/2580(rsp)).
president of the european council. madam president of the parliament, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the house. ladies and gentlemen, the world is more dangerous and predictable today. the multilateral rules-based order is under threat and this is precisely why we are strengthening our eu-united nations cooperation. and it is why secretary-general guterres joined our european council meeting last week. our discussions focused on three topics: the war in ukraine, climate change and reform in the global financial system. russia is attacking ukraine and attacking our international rules-based system but the multilateral system is resisting and standing firm. the un has played a key role in finding concrete solutions on humanitarian support to refugees, on the black sea grain initiative and on nuclear facilities. the eu and united nations also cooperate on many global issues such as climate change and, for example, we have seen recently with the historic agreement on the high seas treaty. the 27 eu leaders also reaffirmed their commitment to the 2030 agenda and its sustainable development goals, and re-discussed the importance of reforming the global financial system to fight poverty and to make the world fairer. ladies and gentlemen, president zelenskyy has addressed every european council since the start of the war, and last week was no exception. and president zelenskyy made one thing very clear: to defend itself, ukraine needs more weapons and more ammunition. we endorsed the decision on ammunition agreed by the foreign affairs council. we acted quickly. it took barely six weeks after prime minister kallas proposed the idea and when we tasked the high representative with taking it forward. our goal is to provide 1 million rounds of ammunition within the next 12 months. and this joint eu initiative constitutes a major new step towards a genuine european defence. we also discussed the recent international criminal court's decision. this is the beginning of a process to hold russian leaders accountable for their crimes in ukraine. and we also agreed to step up efforts, along with our partners, to prevent the circumvention and backfilling of our sanctions. ladies and gentlemen, yesterday i was in moldova, where we shared the eu's strong message of solidarity with the moldovans. we also prepared the 2nd meeting of the european political community, which will take place in chișinău on 1 june. moldova is under growing pressure from russia. it needs our support. we have mobilised over eur 1 billion in the past year to support its resilience and stability and we are ready to do more. that's why we've invited the commission to present a support package for moldova before summer. ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, we also had an important debate on our long-term competitiveness, and we agreed to focus on three areas. first, building smarter regulation. we need to make life easier for our businesses and create the conditions for our businesses to flourish right here in the eu. and this means cutting red tape, faster permitting, shorter deadlines, easier procedures and digital solutions. second, unlocking investment to ensure our long-term competitiveness. we need massive investments in technology, innovation, connectivity. financing is the lifeblood of our european businesses, especially our smes, so we need to make it easier for them to get the private capital and investment they need to innovate, scale up and thrive. and we have the financial means at our disposal. savings represent eur 1.5 trillion in the european union. the capital markets union will help make this happen. it's time to speed up work and get this done. and third, boosting research and innovation. the eu needs to become a powerhouse of innovation, especially in areas with tremendous growth potential like renewable and cleantech. we will therefore increase investment in r&d, help innovative products and services get on the markets. we also discussed trade essential to our prosperity. since the 1950s, trade has grown from 5 percent to 25 percent of our gdp, and we need to consider a number of issues. trade is influenced by geopolitics, and we must navigate our trade relations in this complex landscape. in relation to the us, we are a close and strategic ally. in recent months, we have discussed our economic cooperation, notably on the iia and the wto reform. we are working together with the united states to find a solution to the issues raised by the ira. as for china, we face the reality as it is today. china is a major trading partner and has become more assertive and more challenging. so we need to be clear on our goal. we want to derisk, not to the decouple. it is also important to maintain a multilateral trade system with a reformed world trade organization at its core, and this includes its dispute settlement mechanism. the 27 leaders agreed to continue our ambitious trade agenda while defending our interests. on migration, we continued our work from last month's summit. we are implementing the concrete measures agreed, and the council presidency and the commission have updated us on the progress so far. we will continue our work on this. it's a priority for all of us. dear colleagues, we also held on friday a euro summit with the participation of christine lagarde and paschal donohoe. and this meeting focused on two key points. first, the current economic and financial situation. our economies entered 2023 on a healthier footing than expected but the impact on inflation remains a serious concern, and we agreed to continue to closely coordinate our economic policy responses and we also reiterated that the economic governance framework is key for a strong economic and monetary union. second, we focused on our european financial architecture. our banking sector is resilient, with strong capital and liquidity positions, and the banking union has significantly strengthened our resilience. but we shouldn't be complacent. we therefore called for continued efforts to complete our banking union. speeding up progress on the capital markets union is also a top priority. the eu is a staunch defender of multilateralism, and the rules-based international order will continue to work to make europe stronger and more sovereign, and to make the world a fairer place for everyone.
president of the commission. – president metsola, president michel, honourable members. indeed, we had a lot of topics on the agenda in the last european council. i want to focus on three of them, and the centrepiece was certainly competitiveness with the view of our response to the inflation reduction act. you are very familiar with the backdrop, so we discussed how to answer to the inflation reduction act. you know what's on the table. the first part is the negotiated part. you know that we confirmed with our american friends our understanding that european carmakers get access to the us market and to us tax breaks with leased electric vehicles. the second part is that we negotiate an agreement that will ensure that critical raw minerals for batteries that are extracted and processed here in the european union are treated equally to those from canada and mexico, for example, as if we had a free trade agreement. third, president biden and i established a transparency dialogue on the clean tech subsidies. this is one part; this is the negotiated part. but the bigger and more important part is that we have to do our homework here in the european union. we know that, today, european companies are leaders in net—zero research and innovation. we have set ourselves very ambitious targets for the deployment of renewables. however, our policies have a gap, and that is the support for the manufacturing of clean technologies. you all know this situation where, the moment a new technology moves to commercial deployment at scale, and so is really scaling up, that is just the moment where manufacturing often moves outside the european union. we know that china is the largest producer of all mass—manufactured clean tech, from batteries to solar panels, from certain types of electrolysers to heat pumps. this is especially concerning because, according to the international energy agency, renewables will account for over 90% of global electricity expansion in the next five years. in other words, china will be the biggest winner of this expansion, and if we do not act right now, this chinese dominance over the clean tech value chain will become even more – not less – pronounced. this is why the commission has put forward two acts. the first is the net—zero industry act and the second is the critical raw materials act. we discussed the net—zero industry act. it will create a regulatory environment that is conducive to scaling up the clean tech industry in europe, so precisely the gap that we have right now, in order to fill this gap and to really encourage scaling—up. this is combined with european funding or state aid – both possibilities are possible – and with a matching clause, so that we have transparency on what happens on the american market. in other words, the net—zero industry act aims at keeping european companies in europe, and not seeing them emigrate across the atlantic or to china. the second element we discussed is the proposal of the critical raw materials act on the table. now, we all know that the critical raw materials are vital for our twin transition, namely decarbonisation and digitalisation. while the demand for these raw materials is projected to increase drastically, we know that europe heavily depends on imports. of course, this dependency that we have on imports threatens not only our climate and digital objectives, but also weakens our industrial base. therefore, the critical raw materials act aims at significantly improving the conditions for extracting, processing and – very importantly – recycling these critical raw materials here in the european union. at the same time, we are strengthening our cooperation with reliable partners around the world, whether it be zinc or nickel from canada, or lithium from chile. mesdames et messieurs les députés, mon deuxième thème: l’ukraine. l’ukraine a été un autre sujet important de nos discussions la semaine dernière. depuis le tout premier jour de la guerre, nous avons travaillé ensemble dans un seul but: faire échouer le plan de poutine visant à effacer l’ukraine de la carte. pour atteindre ce but, nous avons intensifié notre aide financière. nous avons mis sur pied une plateforme de reconstruction pour rebâtir ce beau et héroïque pays. enfin, et c’est une vraie première pour notre union, nous avons acheté en commun des armes dont l’ukraine a besoin pour se défendre. notre prochaine étape sera de doter l’ukraine des munitions dont elle a grandement besoin. nous allons donc investir 2 milliards d’euros venant de la facilité européenne pour la paix, pour assurer la livraison continue de munitions. elles viendront de stocks existants ou feront l’objet d’une acquisition conjointe. nous devons aussi aider notre industrie de la défense à augmenter sa capacité de production de munitions, y compris avec l’appui budgétaire de l’union européenne. c’est-à-dire qu’il faut agrandir les installations de production, renforcer les chaînes d’approvisionnement et soutenir la réaffectation de sites de fabrication existants. nous avons dit que nous soutiendrons l’ukraine quoi qu’il en coûte, et l’europe tiendra sa promesse. und das dritte thema, über das ich aus dem europäischen rat berichten möchte, ist ein anderer aspekt des russischen kriegs in der ukraine. jeder krieg ist grausam. aber dieser krieg zeigt eine grausamkeit und brutalität des kremls, was eine ganz neue dimension entwickelt. ich spreche zum beispiel von der verschleppung ukrainischer kinder. putins schergen sollen rund 16 200 kinder nach russland entführt haben. sie wurden aus ihren familien und aus ihrer kindheit gerissen. sie wurden ihrer heimat und ihrer gewohnten umgebung beraubt und, wenn wir nicht aktiv werden, auch ihrer zukunft. das zynische adoptionsgesetz, das russland im vergangenen mai erlassen hat, erleichtert die adoption dieser kinder aus der ukraine. das risiko ist also groß, dass sie für immer im nirgendwo verschwinden. das sind kriegsverbrechen! die, die daran beteiligt sind, müssen zur verantwortung gezogen werden! genau aus diesem grund hat der internationale strafgerichtshof einen haftbefehl gegen den russischen präsidenten erlassen. das ist ein schritt, der seinesgleichen sucht. mit dieser entscheidung ist die welt für putin ein ganzes stück kleiner geworden. wenn er in eines der 123 länder reist, die mit dem internationalen strafgerichtshof zusammenarbeiten, riskiert er seine verhaftung. jeder besuch in einem dieser länder, sei es in afrika oder asien, sei es in europa oder südamerika, wird so für ihn zu einem unkalkulierbaren risiko. wir unterstützen den gerichtshof, bis der gerechtigkeit genüge getan ist. wir haben bereits sanktionen gegen 16 personen verhängt, die für die verschleppungen verantwortlich sind, darunter die sogenannte russische beauftragte für kinderrechte. aber wir müssen mehr tun. wir müssen versuchen, herauszufinden, wo sich die entführten kinder aufhalten. und wir müssen alles daransetzen, sie nach hause zu bringen. ich bin den mitgliedstaaten, die uns unterstützen, sehr dankbar. ebenso möchte ich dem un-generalsekretär antónio guterres dafür danken, dass die vereinten nationen und ihre agenturen mit rat und expertise, die sie leider in diesem thema haben, an unserer seite stehen. meine damen und herren abgeordneten, kinder sind die schwächsten und verletzlichsten opfer eines jeden krieges. es ist gerade in zeiten des krieges, dass wir sie und ihre rechte besonders schützen müssen: ihr recht, frei zu sein, ihr recht, sicher zu sein, ihr recht, geborgen zu sein. lassen sie uns gemeinsam mit unseren ukrainischen freunden die rechte der kinder verteidigen. slawa ukrajini! long live europe!
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, president von der leyen, president michel, i first of all want to thank the swedish presidency. the top priority of this council meeting was competitiveness, and this was so urgently needed. in the last 20 years, we lost 30% of our industrial strength on the global share. this has to be stopped, otherwise we cannot defend our european way of life. we need to put aside the illogical positions and speed up with european competitiveness. and that’s why more innovation, less red tape, quicker procedures, more trade: this is what europe needs and that is what is now also in the council conclusions. and we have to implement it now. but the council meeting was also overshadowed by a split inside of the german government about the famous combustion engine debate. yes or no? yes or no? yes or no? we as the epp always had a clear line about supporting a technological, open approach, if fuels can be part of a climate-neutral future. but, first of all, markets and consumers decide and not, first of all, bureaucrats and politicians. other parties had more problems, with wissing and le maire discussing these issues, and also, in other parties, they were to have discussions on this. now this saga is over, but frankly speaking, a lot of observers ask themselves: what is now the promise to wissing and the german fdp? so the legal set is unchanged. do we need now a delegated act? will the european parliament be fully involved, in this house? we have a lot of discussions about involving the european parliament and that’s why i think, in the process, the commission also must clarify the european parliament is fully involved. democracy means the decision will be discussed and decided here in this house. let me focus on an additional point. we cannot sell off our competitiveness to china, and ursula von der leyen underlined this. our job is to create jobs in europe and not, first of all, in china. and speaking about china, in november, olaf scholz went alone to china after selling the hamburg harbour to cosco. then our president charles michel was in december in china. now, i learned this week sánchez will go to china and at the end of the week ursula von der leyen, together with emmanuel macron, will go to china. in one week, two trips and three leaders, in a way. so, it is good that we are there, but i ask myself: do we really have a common voice? do we have really a common understanding? until now, we have no joint, common china policy formulated in one document. i must say, after the visit of xi in moscow, we cannot afford to engage with china from a position of weakness, without a clear position. we need european missions to china, not national or personal trips that undermine probably the european unity in the world’s eyes. we need a clear china strategy, especially when it comes to trade, innovation, resources, defending our european values. and we need it now. that’s why, let’s do this together. i want to underline that, from an epp point of view, we have to do this together with our american friends. we should not allow that china is splitting up europe, but we should also not allow that china is splitting up the transatlantic cooperation. europe needs unity and ambitions in these things. again, coming back to the picture of xi and putin in moscow, everybody sees what are the alternatives: a freedom-based world dominated by us or by the autocrats. for us, the epp, things are crystal clear. finally, council was also discussing a little bit on migration. i heard your statement today, president michel, but i must say that this was not a sufficient answer to the development. we’ve had more than 26 000 migrants arriving on the italian shores since january: four times the number for the same period in 2022. europe is again sleepwalking into a new migration crisis, and that’s why we have to open the eyes. we have to see it. we have to discuss it. we have to give a proper answer. for the moment, i have to say, italy, malta, spain, greece are quite alone in these things. what we need is solidarity to fight against trafficking of poor people. we need european solidarity with strengthening frontex and being also present in the mediterranean to rescue people. and we need european solidarity for an asylum system which really works. good news is that in the libe committee, we finalised the vote yesterday so we are ready for negotiations. let’s make now out of this start of the negotiations a success.
the european council has taken up crucial issues for our union, demonstrating once again that europe is our community of destiny and the only possible answer to every national problem. the european union has also made a number of important commitments to the united nations. we need more courage, we need more courage in redistribution and we need more courage in search and rescue, because we do not want to mourn the dead in this chamber and outside this chamber because of the tragedies that are taking place in the mediterranean. the council also called on the co-legislators to complete the work on the adoption of the pact on migration and asylum. i would like to say that i find it really incomprehensible - i cannot put it any other way - the attitude of the sovereignist forces, the league and the brothers of italy, who voted yesterday in the libe committee against that pact, which giorgia meloni herself had supported. and their vote shows once again that the forces of sovereignty have seen europe only as a sounding board for their propaganda, which has been made today on the question of migration and previously on many other issues. but europe, and i conclude, mr president, remains the only political place where solutions can be found to the opportunities and even the tragedies of our time.
for the greens/efa group madam president, mr president, first of all, thank you for being here, since you were here not long ago before the council, and i will see you again afterwards. i think that's a good formula. the last time i spoke to you about a subject on which the greens' voice may sometimes seem incongruous, it was competitiveness. today, another council theme is international trade. you're going to say, "what the hell is he talking about, international trade?" my starting question is whether europe can be self-sufficient. the answer we are asking is that even if she wanted to, she couldn't. in fact, i think we should not want to, because europe is not an island. it's part of this planet, and, if only for climate change, we know that we are dependent on each other. what we have to avoid - and recent years have reminded us of this - is over-reliance, both on the part of our suppliers - and we have seen this from russia - and from our customers; we've seen it on the chinese side as well. what i believe the european union's trade policy should aim at is interdependence at the right level and with the partners of our choice. these interdependencies, it seems to me, must have three objectives. the first is the resilience of our societies through diversification, both of suppliers and of markets. secondly - and i do not see a hierarchy in the objectives - it must be said that this is the consolidation of strategic alliances. i repeat, europe is not an island. when we also see the decline of democracy on the planet, i really think that between european and non-european democracies, we really have an interest in getting together. finally, and this is new - climate change and planetary boundaries are forcing us to do this - it's regulatory convergence. i say convergence: it does not mean instantaneous regulatory identity, but regulatory convergence, particularly in social and environmental matters. international trade cannot lead to a race to the bottom in these matters. the problem we have -- and this is where we probably have a nuance with the enthusiastic speeches, including malik's a moment ago, or manfred's a moment before -- is that all the negotiating mandates for the treaties that are being discussed have been decided, have been adopted in the world before: the world before the pandemic, the world before climate awareness, the world before the war. and so we really have to ask ourselves the question of how far we need to revise the agreements - and mercosur is a good example - to bring them into line with the strategic, climate, social and environmental objectives of the european union. that is what i am calling on us to work towards. and perhaps it is not yet a scoop that the free trade agreement with new zealand is pointing the way.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president michel, mrs president von der leyen, the ecr group has welcomed the so-called windsor framework between the european commission and the uk government, as it strengthens our alliance with london, allowing us to turn the page on brexit and focus on the difficult challenges we have in common. this agreement takes on even greater significance in the light of the 25th anniversary of the good friday agreement signed in belfast, which we have just celebrated. the european council discussed the issue of immigration. we hope that a joint initiative will soon be found, a concrete, urgent but long-term initiative. a new and different approach is needed in the union's immigration policies. we must save people at sea, but at the same time we must prevent them from going to sea. we must stop human trafficking and at the same time remove the causes that drive people to leave their homelands to emigrate to europe. there is nothing racist or sovereignist about this, mr picierno, but common sense, foresight and genuine generosity. the european council then rightly focused on the subject of competitiveness and industrial policies. to be more competitive, the union must not drop a single production model from above. the union must set objectives, including environmental ones, but leave it to the member states to choose how they are to be achieved. it's called technology neutrality. it means not being enslaved by vague interests, it means being aware of the reality around us and its evolution over time. the word 'easter' is derived from the hebrew word 'pascha' which means 'passage'. i hope that at the level of the european union too there will be a shift towards a renewed political approach, less ideological, less abstract, less centralist. happy easter to you all.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president michel, the european council has reaffirmed its support for zelensky's peace plan, which prohibits any negotiations and aims to attack the territories annexed to russia by means of referendums. now, with the european peace facility, we will provide ammunition for two billion euros. so it 's clear: for you, war is peace. ukraine is also already 34 billion euros in debt to the european union. when will you return them? i never will. we're gonna have to forego getting it back to keep her from going into default, and you know that. but who will then cover the hole in the european budget? you then talk about food security and support the export of ukrainian products to the union, but after the british depleted uranium munitions explode in ukraine, who will buy contaminated ukrainian wheat? you guys? what about the plan to save the planet, when the nuclear superpowers have abandoned their plans for disarmament and are increasing their arsenals in the face of growing tensions with the west? you're more worried about diesel cars than atomic bombs? meanwhile, protests against your policies are sweeping across europe and they will not stop. if you have decided that the european union must commit suicide, then success is assured. i'm very happy for you.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, with all the problems we have in europe today, we are talking about this. i thought it would be a great problem to make it uncomfortable for the european parliament to discuss an italian matter. i've been looking for specifics, but i can't find any. some reports say 150,000 children, but in reality it is much less. these are probably extended families, not first-generation, same-sex families. so we don't have any data, but one thing is certain: italy has no law, despite a decade of leftist governments. and what is even more certain is that a public official must enforce the law and the judgments that confirm the public policy contradiction of the practice of surrogacy. as the government's rejection of the european affiliation proposal confirms, such recognition would only have the effect of letting in by the window what did not come in by the door: the abominable practice of surrogacy and the commodification of the bodies of economically vulnerable women.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to the strait bridge, which is central in many ways. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. as minister salvini says, the strait bridge will be much more than a technologically advanced bridge, it will be a human artifact that more than any other infrastructure will symbolize the connectivity of the 21st century. the bridge over the straits is an expression of the exemplary will of italy's cohesion policy, the european and euro-mediterranean policies, all of which are aimed at improving the internal market, including the establishment of the union of defence and military mobility. europe knows that it has in sicily the largest and most important strategic base in the mediterranean on its sea, under its sea and above its sky.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has proposed that cattle farming be included in the scope of the directive on industrial emissions. to say that farms pollute as much as factories is madness. over the period 1990-2020, italy has reduced its emissions by about a quarter, while morocco and turkey have increased their emissions by 23% and india by 21%. the inclusion of the beef and veal sector in this directive, with a too low number threshold, would affect most farms, encouraging the instrumental splitting of medium-sized and small farms to avoid obligations or even causing them to close, with the consequent loss of jobs. the increase in imports of meat from third countries which do not respect our food safety is inevitable. the european union will protect and defend our livestock. for the european citizens there is only one kind of meat, natural meat, from animals, not laboratory-produced meat.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, once again we are in this house discussing one of the most unpleasant forms of discrimination in existence: the gender pay gap for equal work of equal value. the principle of equal distribution must be enforced through wage transparency and enforcement mechanisms. but it is also important to note that if european companies with more than 100 employees are required to disclose wage information to expose existing gender pay gaps, this will not be the case for those with up to 100 employees, who will have no obligation and therefore no additional administrative or financial burden. the realities of small and mediumsized enterprises in italy, which are the basic fabric of our economy, must not be penalized in any way. this is the way forward to eradicate once and for all a cancer that has been poisoning the world of work for too long.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the principle of equal pay for men and women should not even be discussed in this house, as it should be a long-established right. unfortunately, that is not the case. the data show a 13% pay gap between men and women in europe, figures that still give us pause to reflect on the status of women in 2023. the causes of this gap are to be found in women's family choices, the lower presence of women in top positions or the presence of more women in low-paid jobs. it is time to say no more to the penalisation of women workers, who must enjoy the same rights, the same pay and the same career opportunities as men. that is why this directive is going in the right direction, striving to close the gender pay gap without imposing heavy economic or bureaucratic burdens on small and mediumsized enterprises.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the objective of this regulation is multifaceted: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental legislation and to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental legislation. the new rules require that imports into europe of a range of raw materials and products, including soybeans, beef, coffee, cocoa and palm oil, be accompanied by a certificate that they have not contributed to the destruction of forests. the eu's new forestry policy will be based on a strengthened traceability system and controls by member states, which will be able to suspend the placing on the eu market of products deemed to be causing deforestation. these initiatives will have to be followed by other measures which may affect imports into the european union in order to better guarantee food and environmental security and social guarantees. in this way, with the principle of reciprocity, we will be able to protect both the planet and the italian and european consumers.
mr president, drought, extreme weather events and energy dependence on non-european countries are showing us that the energy transition can no longer be postponed. it is clear that the social and environmental costs of the delays accumulated over the years are very high, and that they are being passed on to the weakest members of our society, fuelling poverty and inequality. today, 55 million european citizens, more than one in ten, are unable to pay their bills. this shows that the energy transition is doomed to fail if we do not approach it with ambition and pragmatism. the social climate fund is therefore needed for those households that do not have the means to make their homes more energy sustainable, but also for small businesses that are unable to reduce emissions in road transport and construction and therefore need to be accompanied by targeted policies and instruments. while the right wing is waging anachronistic battles and proposing spot subsidies, we socialists have found solutions and resources to enable everyone to bear the costs of the transition economically. this is how we think about the present and the future of our companies and our citizens, so that we leave no one behind.
mr president, on 11 april the italian government declared a national emergency on migrants, a decision prompted by the exceptional increase in arrivals on italian coasts, which has seen over 32 000 landings since the beginning of the year, four times more than in 2022. italy is doing its part in managing the migration phenomenon, where is the european union and what has it done? he certainly failed: we remember the disastrous deal signed in 2016 with turkey to stop the flow of migrants, a pact costing over 10 billion that has led to no results. on the migration emergency, italy does not need solidarity in words, but rapid and concrete action by a europe which must take responsibility for a european problem. if the european union exists, it is time to prove it. on the contrary, we shall see yet another failure of a common project which no longer has a reason to exist.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, covid and war have exacerbated problems that threaten to overwhelm humanity and the planet itself. i'm talking about the dramatic increase in inequality and therefore poverty and the climate and environmental emergency. article 25 of the eu directive, the corporate sustainability due diligence directive, states the obligation for companies with more than 250 employees to assess environmental and social sustainability in the short, medium and long term. it is the official introduction of the concept of "benefit society", already recognized in italy since 2015 and requested at european level by a petition that collected over 475 000 signatures. benefit societies must be the future and it must become economically and image-wise cost-effective for every business to be 100 per cent sustainable. this parliament, and in particular the juri committee, is committed to upholding article 25 without distorting it. the future, let us always remember, is ours to build.
mr president, mr vice-president, commission, we have finally heard some truthful words about relations between the european union and china, because, mr vice-president, in foreign policy it is not always just a question of a formal division of labour, of who does what, we also need to give strong political messages, to have a political vision. so it is good that von der leyen spoke of "de-risking" instead of "decoupling", we cannot disengage from trade relations with china, it would be stupid, and it is good that macron said that we cannot be servants of the united states, we seek our third way, our autonomy. but on two conditions: i would like to see china cooperating in peace talks with our dear friend putin, and secondly, the third way is fine, but foreign policy is never independent of domestic arrangements, europe is a great democracy, and so if we defend democracy in ukraine, why should we not defend it in taiwan? we keep arguing about it, but loudly. we need politics and less bureaucracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, recent events and meetings between european leaders and chinese leaders have clearly demonstrated the need for a common european foreign policy. europe must be present and maintain a balance at a time when obvious tensions, such as the war in ukraine, and underground tensions, no less dangerous, force us to unite and play the role of authoritative mediator between the other great powers, china and the united states in particular, and between the continents, let us think of africa. economic and diplomatic relations with china must be strengthened, but without ever neglecting respect for human rights and without penalizing our productive realities, our excellence and our ingenuity. the european union must not be allowed to become a mere spectator, but must be a witness to the fact that the united states is a major player in the world economy. even looking at what is happening in africa, which concerns us very closely, and always keeping in mind the climate and environmental emergency that china cannot ignore. let's not waste any more time, please, let's unite and act together.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, in the past few months, higher than average temperatures have enabled us to reduce gas consumption. this is good news. this has led to lower prices and thus to an acceptable level of energy security, thanks to high levels of gas in storage. but we must not view the challenge as near its happy conclusion. we must not be under the illusion that it is enough to keep the tanks full to avoid the danger of running out of fuel for the next winter, since that would be a failure of planning. energy storage, important as it is, cannot replace the imports that are lacking. there has been justified talk of strengthening cooperation agreements with suppliers such as algeria and azerbaijan, or of resuming important projects such as dismed, while imports of liquefied natural gas have increased very considerably, which certainly helped to avert a crisis in the winter that has just ended. a thought: the increase in lng imports in 2022 was made possible by a particular situation, with a decrease in demand from china, from south east asian markets, although the international energy agency warned that a return of purchases by china to significant levels such as those in 2021 could cause europe to face a fuel shortage, with a gap between demand and supply of 27 billion cubic meters. that's a lot. so it is right to continue the commitment to decarbonisation. but europeans, our people, are asking for reassurance, because we cannot pray that a mild winter will make up for the lack of planning.
madam president, the industrial and geopolitical future of europe is mainly in the field of energy. yet, so far, europe has not been able to respond adequately to the challenges posed by the russian-ukrainian conflict. for years it has demonized gas, a resource which has proved to be strategic and will remain so for many years to come, it has struck energy agreements with unstable and unreliable countries such as azerbaijan, and above all it has not backed down a millimeter in its mad rush towards the electric transition. the very high cost of these ideological choices, already paid for by households and businesses, is set to increase even more with the end of the endothermic engines from 2035. a self-destructive measure that will further raise prices, diminish the purchasing power of the citizens and put our manufacturing in crisis. we will certainly listen to the commission's proposals for next winter, but let us make it clear from the outset that we will not be advancing naïve and disastrous green solutions. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the application of the exemption from the obligation to provide information to the public.
madam president, commissioners, the improvement of the cybersecurity of digital products is a step forward in protecting users and businesses from the consequences of cyberattacks which have become increasingly frequent and targeted. security should not be seen as a cost but as an investment, as every data breach has an economic impact that could be avoided through the adoption of advanced technologies. i would like to draw attention to one critical point about the new regulation. in fact, there is a risk of blocking the development of open source in europe. according to article 16 of the cyber resilience act, programmers could be held responsible for security breaches in their software even if they receive no financial return, and this could damage the innovative drive of open source software which, as we recall, plays a prominent role in the european digital economy. we are talking about a hundred billion impact, so it is essential that any legislation takes into account the unique prospects of open source software and that future regulations must also take into account the difficulties of small and medium-sized enterprises in finding effective solutions to protect them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we are not, because we are talking about realities that often do not have the resources to adapt in such a short time. an example of this is italy, where three out of four companies - we are always talking about small and medium-sized enterprises - do not have a disaster recovery plan, and this could cause damage to companies, which are not only unprotected but also at risk of being mocked by sanctions. i would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by calling for the attention of the world of small and mediumsized enterprises, since we are here to help them and not to invent new obstacles.
madam president, commissioner, the european year of youth has finally given us the opportunity to give voice and attention to the expectations and needs of the new generations and it has certainly been the perfect moment to move forward with confidence and hope in a post-pandemic perspective. but today i would like to take a moment to reflect on the plight of the neets, those young people who have lost hope and cannot be intercepted by the world of education first and work later, but who have just stopped looking for new opportunities. the most recent eurostat data show that the regions most affected by this phenomenon are, unfortunately, italy and particularly the mezzogiorno, which i come from and which i have the honour of representing today. the statistics speak for themselves: if we do not intervene in the new generations now, we risk leaving many children behind. i ask you: what specific policies and actions do you intend to promote towards neets to re-locate and involve all our young people? we don't deny these kids their future, and most importantly, we don't let our kids say to us, "we fear for our future".
member of the commission. as far as i am concerned, there is no proposal that is issued within the framework of my portfolios and where the point of view of youth, the experience of youth is not taken into account. we have always done this, whether in university strategy or university alliances and the role of young people, or innovation, where young people have a role to play, including in rural areas. all this is taken into account. i would like to stress once again, so that the subject can have a little more dimension, the importance of this map, the mapping we have done with the activities. of course, at the end of may i will ask to see which of the 13 000 activities were the most active, what was the geographical distribution, what were the regions, associations, young people who were most interested. and i think we need to capitalize on these initiatives. that is why i will ensure that it is included and thus support those who, also via the interactive map, have expressed their support for their inclusion in any future policy, whether in the green transition, whether in the digital transition, in the field of innovation, or in the field of research, we must ensure that young people are taken into account. we've been doing it all year. i am thinking of culture moves europe for young artists, i am thinking of young researchers, i am thinking of our young people and the healthy life styles, the laboratories we have started with our young people. the following are examples of initiatives which should be and will continue to be considered.
member of the commission. mr president, i will be very brief in my reply. when we talk about the erasmus+ education programme, it is clear that we have fundamental values and principles which are clearly defined in article 2 of the treaty. with the erasmus+ programme, we ensure that they are respected. whether there are attempts or not, we are there so that we can follow up and see what happens. and we have never hesitated to react if that were the case. now, i think we need to make sure that we also focus on the positive things, give them more visibility and encourage more people to see the opportunities that are out there. this is the best way, when you see that there is an example, an opportunity that is concrete for you, not to be misled by other discourses, but on the contrary, by the power of the example, to be able to ensure that you, you are the one who can benefit from this and realize projects, give shape to your ideas, thanks to this participation. i am making sure that erasmus+ does just that. this parliament fought for the erasmus+ programme budget to be doubled. we have 28 billion euros. i don't see it as a sum of money. i see this as millions of european citizens, young people with or without experience, who can participate. and that is exactly what we must continue to do.
commissioner, i welcome initiatives such as the european year of youth which seek to bring the european union closer to young people. young people are the future and they need to know well how the european union and its institutions work and what they are about, and to be aware of the importance and impact of these in their lives. i therefore very much welcomed the 2018 council recommendation which seeks to strengthen the european dimension of education. i also think it is essential that young people get to know europe on the ground, firsthand. in this regard, several successful initiatives have followed in recent years such as the discovery eu programme, which has been highly requested by young europeans since its launch in 2018 under erasmus+. what is your assessment, commissioner, of the operation of the discovery eu programme? are other similar initiatives for young people to get to know and learn about europe being considered? the european parliament, in a recent resolution of 14 december 2022, also approved another initiative to make young people aware of european cultural routes and to have a voucher under the erasmus+ programme.
member of the commission. thank you very much for asking. indeed, discovereu is no longer a pilot project, it is an integral part of the erasmus+ programme. and it is indeed a very successful program. remember, because of covid, last year we were able to distribute 70 train tickets. this year, it continues. indeed, what's new in discovereu is that we can include cultural routes, to see that discovereu is not just about traveling, it's also about knowing another culture, it's also about making friends. it also means visiting places that you may not have the opportunity to visit as spontaneously. so today, discovereu remains a true example of how, at european level, we can encourage our young people to be open, to know the culture and the different places in europe and thus also come out stronger in the belief and in their european identity. our analyses clearly show that everyone who participated, whether in discovereu or erasmus+, left with this sense of european belonging. i would also like to mention the need to promote, perhaps even better, another major innovation in the erasmus+ programme, namely the jean monnet actions. there is something new now with the jean monnet programme: we can also support classes that can exchange to learn more about the functioning of the european union, european integration. we can also support teachers. it seems to me that now, perhaps, we need to make some extra effort because there are new possibilities that are being offered. let's be very honest here. getting to know the european union, how the institutions work, is a journey that is not an end in itself. but now with the new erasmus+ programme, we are offering many more opportunities for teachers, students, whole classes to benefit from this experience and to learn more.
member of the commission. so maybe i'll start with the very last question. i think i've already answered that. perhaps i can add on a personal level that it is good to have conferences and forums, but we should not hesitate to go to the daily meeting of young people. i myself have not missed a month without meeting young people, whether in primary school, secondary school or university. and i think it's something that's very much in demand among our youth. i just want to say that this is the best exchange ever. when i meet young people to have ideas that are fresh, to have their critical minds, it is very, very pleasant. now, as regards the conference on the future of europe, i do not hide from the recommendations that were adopted that i was obviously satisfied because as far as education, research, innovation, culture and sport are concerned, we have here very concrete recommendations. and the fact that they ended up in the final document, to me, is very encouraging. but the very specific issue of paid traineeships is not new, we are working together with commissioner schmit. you know that we are proposing to revise the european framework for traineeships. of course he will have my support when he decides to go in the direction that the youth is asking for. but i remind you that this is not within my purview.
commissioner, if this year of youth is to be a success, its effects must be lasting. i would like to stress the need for a 'youth test' to be applied to all european policies. this is a strong expectation of our young people, who are very strongly represented in this house and whom i welcome. it would probably be the best legacy i could ever leave. then let me share some good news with you. mentoring has just been declared a national cause in france. you know my attachment to this practice which has shown its powerful effectiveness in reducing educational, social and territorial inequalities. you have honoured us by attending the event we have organised for it here in the european parliament. can we count on your support to significantly develop mentoring at european level and to recognise the skills acquired by the mentored but also by the mentors? the upcoming year of skills would be the ideal framework for finally building a european framework of psychosocial skills acquired through solidarity or european mobility and translated into employability.
member of the commission. madam cicurel, you can of course continue to count on my support, as i said at the time of the conference you organised. we have some instruments on hand, but it is clearly not enough. yes, indeed, i believe that the european year of skills can be a great opportunity to be much more 'vocal' and to talk, to keep talking about mentoring. this is good news: in one member state, it is recognised as a priority. but we're gonna need some allies. i think the european year of skills is the right time to raise the subject at european level, to simply show its positive effects and benefits. and you have rightly spoken each time about taking into consideration the skills of the mentored, but also the skills of the mentors. in a series of other policies that are not only related to education and youth, i also take this issue into consideration, especially in the field of innovation. we cannot continue to encourage our young people to go into an area where they clearly need more mentoring and someone to talk to. so i think i can be very clear: you can continue to count on my support. as for the 'youth test', i think i have already answered it many times. we're working on it. we have heard the demands of the youth. we have in our hands instruments; we'll have to see how best to use them. and then, of course, when we come to the communication on the european year of youth, we will have to propose something that corresponds to the request that has been made to us.
member of the commission. personally, i had a different impression, because i had one of my greatest experiences with youth. it was in romania, in cluj, and i must say that i have rarely seen so many young people in such an engaged, so concrete event, who were really there to mobilize. i do not, however, dismiss the need to continue to monitor the needs closely. i do not think there was a lack of funding as such, i said. the initial funding for the european year of youth was €8 million from the erasmus+ programme and the european solidarity corps. we were able to make available €140 million. now, what i'm waiting for is the national coordinator to tell us that if there had been more funding, we would have done this better, which is now good practice and has shown that it has a real impact. but asking for funding so that we can put even more activities in which we don't really have the assurance that they bring something positive, i think we need to debate that. on diversity and inclusion, i really think i've answered many times. of course, this is also the case in all our initiatives. i said it again, the new erasmus+ programme, with a whole bunch of new features, is the same. it reiterates the fundamental role of the national agencies. i asked each agency to have an inclusion strategy and it is up to the national agency to be able to reach out to these categories of young people in remote areas, areas that are economically challenged, in order to be able to include them. similarly, i repeat, there is a new scheme for those who are less favoured in the erasmus+ programme. but again, no communication. it is also up to national agencies to do more to make these initiatives more widely known to those who need them most.
member of the commission. i think i've made myself very clear. i think i can give many examples of initiatives in which young people are involved. i have already spoken about a subject which is very dear to you: young people and artists in the cultural field. they're included now. this was not the case before the european year of youth. the girls go circular project young girls aged 14-19 who can receive free training in the circular economy. it was not there before the european year of youth. i will talk about the deep tech talent initiative: one million talents by 2025. this initiative is open to all regions and to all those who wish to participate. it did not exist before the european year of youth. if i continue, i do not think i will have enough time in this debate to give all the examples. now, the question is not what i have been able to do in my field. i think it is obvious that i am very keen that young people are taken into account in every initiative. what i would like is that there is a critical mass of initiatives at european level that concern young people and that systematically not only listen to them but also take them on as participants in their implementation. and i think i made myself very clear. my message is that the youth have my support, the time has come, so that they can move forward and do it perhaps a little faster.
member of the commission. i will give the example of a direct contribution to a request made by young people for the european year of skills although with the parliament it has not yet started, it will be in may. just today, the college adopted two recommendations to the council on digital skills. it's a fundamental question for our students. and i'm talking about numbers, for example, in terms of schools getting access to a fast enough connection. today, less than 20 percent of our students who are in schools have a connection that goes beyond 100 megabits. similarly, one third of our students do not have the basic digital skills. we are a long way from the ambitions we set for 2030. here is a very concrete example for me of a topic that was one of the priorities of the european year of youth and that makes a direct contribution to the european year of skills. the same recommendations also refer to the digital divide, which has been the subject of much discussion in this house. yes, we must continue to reduce it. it is clear that our member states, for the first time, must have an inclusive strategy that allows them to address the issue of equipment, the issues of connectivity, the issue of skills, the issue of teachers. these are examples of topics that i think we discussed during the european year of youth and which are now a direct contribution to the european year of skills. what i could say is that i will ensure that all the priorities of the european year of youth, with the solutions that have been largely supported by young people in these different areas, are reflected in the european year of skills and above all are recognised as a contribution of this youth that made the european year of youth not a success but a vision and a key message is that the european year of youth must never stop.
mr president, commissioner, i think we have to be frank: the european year of youth was not the success we wanted. a wasted opportunity, complicit in the pandemic and the war, which also exacerbated some youthful fragility. many problems remain, including mental well-being, which is strained by isolation and lack of prospects. so when will we have a european strategy on mental health with a specific focus on the younger generations? second point: the automatic mutual recognition of diplomas and qualifications. we have a long way to go, where are we on this? finally, it would be important to include more active and participatory european citizenship modules in school curricula; is there any concrete steps in this direction?
in the name of the id group. mr president, mr high representative, i agree with you and your approach. it is clear that we must hope that the peruvians will be able to decide democratically about their future. we have known for many, many years that this is a scenario of crisis and instability. i also refuse to take sides. i am also aware that many people, including some in my own family, have chosen to migrate to the area many years ago. there is a theme of investment instability, there is a theme of china replacing european companies in some important investments. the 2024 election scenario will be very delicate and will have to be watched carefully, but i would like to emphasize one more aspect, that of natural resources. north america has very strong interests, mexico has proposed to peru a kind of lithium opec. i would not like to see some movements being driven by vested interests. we, as european legislators, who are moving towards a transition of some kind, also need to consider the geopolitical effects of our choices on natural resource issues.
mr president, dear high representative, dear colleagues, the recent events in peru have demonstrated that democracy is fragile and can be threatened at any moment. last year, the constitutional transition of power has helped to protect peru’s democracy and the rule of law. but the country still faces significant challenges. the political crisis caused months’ long protests that are destabilising the country and having a negative impact on peru’s already struggling economy. i strongly urge all parties to respect and safeguard the right to peaceful protest and condemn any use of violence or excessive force. it is now essential that all actors engage in inclusive national dialogue in order to find a compromise that ensures political stability and addresses the social and political issues that have led to this crisis. peru is a close partner of the eu and we remain committed to supporting the rule of law and constitutional order in the country. we are ready to offer our assistance and to be an honest broker in order to help peru overcome the crisis.
mr president, mr vice-president, at a time when the european union is fully aware of the importance of intensifying relations with latin america, i would like to express my deep concern at the political and social crisis in a country which is a friend and natural ally of peru. it's been several years of misrule. six presidents in six years. pedro castillo has held this post for sixteen months, with a balance of five cabinets, more than seventy ministers and an attempt at self-coup, which has plunged the country into widespread chaos and has also caused dozens of victims. peru has for decades had serious structural problems that must be addressed with a constructive dialogue between all political forces, forgetting short-term thinking and seeking a constitutional, democratic and institutional solution that leads to early elections. but one can fall for the temptation of other countries in the region, where dictatorial or authoritarian governments have emerged. the constitutional order and respect for human rights must always prevail in peru. to this end, institutional capacity must be strengthened, corruption must be combated and the necessary governance must be achieved.
mr president, mr high representative, we are concerned that the situation remains unsustainable: we are talking about at least 60 people killed and 1335 injured during the protests, all of which were exacerbated by enormous social injustices and systematic racism, also expressed in the official press, with violence and repression directed mainly against the indigenous aymara and quechua peoples. the united nations intervened in the massacre of 18 people in juliaca, in the puno region. amnesty called for an immediate end to the unnecessary and disproportionate use of force against the civilian population and for an investigation into human rights violations. we are also concerned about the decisions of the constitutional court, which undermine the independence of the judiciary. i express my full solidarity with the peruvian people and believe that it is essential for the european union to play a leading role in promoting dialogue and a negotiating process to put an end to the violence and return to voting and democratic normalcy.
mr. chairman, the safety of the public is certainly a priority that we all agree on across this room. and certainly security is something that's very important. it's a sensitive area and it's very important to know that the moment there is a security cut somewhere, it raises legitimate concerns of our citizens. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot understand why the left wants to ignore the obstacles, that is to say the obstacles in the form of fences on the borders with the countries where illegal migrants cross those borders, and refuse to finance them from the european budget. it's the thing that's essential. if you weren't a maritime country like malta, but you were a country that had these borders, where various illegal groups were operating, then it's natural that you would try to stop the flow with a fence. it's not against human rights, it's a method that is used in spain and other countries. we can't let various smuggling groups dictate the terms of who comes to europe. we need to set the conditions so that we have a lot more options for legal migration if europe needs it.
the president, the commissioner hahn, and the parliament have been given a deadline to lay down their annual budget. we had to deal with the economic challenges of the year. the cost of living in the geographical area of the country is higher than the average for the boilscithe rates. everyone's got to get their hands dirty in those days. it is a great honour to be represented in parliament and to be able to deal with the anthems of the people of europe. the budget of the european union shall be managed by the european parliament. i welcome the fact that your efforts are being directed towards the parliament's essential objectives of energy security, environment, job creation and support for employment in ukraine. i would like to draw particular attention to the importance of improving energy security. it is necessary to ensure that the main sources of energy, energy storage, energy in-house and energy efficiency are not used in the same way. we need funding to support energy efficiency efforts and to build homes so that they can achieve their environmental goals. toisc go bhfuil rol an phríomh-idirbheartaí agam i mo pháirtí polaitíochta ar an bhfeidhmíocht fuinnimh agus don treoir fu energia, which is welcome to participate in this type of action.
member of the commission. – i would like to thank you again for this engaging debate today. of course, like always, the commission takes good note of the positions and thoughts expressed in this meeting. let me also assure you that the parliament’s guidelines will be an important element for the preparation of the 2024 draft budget. let me also assure you that the commission will act as an honest broker and my services will do their utmost to prepare the ground for fair and informed negotiations in autumn. i and my team are ready to facilitate the work of the budget rapporteur and the presidency during this new cycle of the annual budgetary procedure. i must stress that it will be important to remain flexible to react to the evolving geopolitical situation depending on the outcome of the mff mid—term review. a change to the 2024 budget may be necessary. this could be either before the adoption of the 2024 budget or through a draft amending budget. in any case, it is very important that the 2024 budget is adopted in a timely manner. in conclusion, i thank you both – parliament and also the council – for your contributions and thoughts, and i will duly consider this when preparing the draft budget proposal. i trust that with cooperation, dialogue and an availability and readiness to compromise, we will reach a timely agreement on a solid and good—quality budget for 2024 in the interests of our citizens.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. right in time delivery of myself. i'm sorry i'm missing, but we're also discussing guidelines in my group, the ppe group. i'm picking from this debate those voices that clearly emphasize that if we have new initiatives, especially legislative ones, they should be funded by fresh money, not by the muddling troughs that have been typical in recent years. so i'm choosing voices that go to one basic conclusion, which is the conclusion of today's debate: that if we want to have a budget that is fit, that is up to the challenge, then there should be a fundamental revision of the multiannual financial framework agreed before the pandemic and before the russian aggression in ukraine. it's the only way we're gonna make it. i would also like to wish the commission and the council the same.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 19 april 2023.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the need for european solidarity in saving lives in the mediterranean, particularly in italy (2023/2656 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, according to the international organization for migration, more than 400 migrants died in the central mediterranean in the first three months of 2023. we have not seen any deadlier quarter there in this past six years. i’m deeply saddened by the continued loss of lives by those many migrants, including parents with children. this is an unsustainable and unacceptable situation, first and foremost, from a humanitarian perspective. as i stated before, in this house, preventing these tragedies is an absolute priority that requires collective political action. now is the time for all eu institutions to move forward and deliver together on the reform of our migration and asylum policies. therefore, i warmly welcome the progress in parliament and that you voted on important files on the migration pact. now, we all need to come together, the parliament and member states, to find common ground and solutions where we can at all meet. we need a functional internal system to be able to handle the external dimension on migration. the current situation in tunisia, which now affects our member state, italy, is just one example where we need to act together and where we need common tools. there is a broad agreement in the council that we need to adopt effective and lasting solutions to address the immediate and ongoing challenges on all routes, including the central mediterranean route. in this regard. the special european council in february recognised the specific nature of maritime borders, including when it comes to protecting lives. the european council conclusions also underlined the need for reinforced cooperation regarding search and rescue activities. let me now say a few words on some of the main lines of action that the eu is pursuing. we welcome the relaunch of the european contract group on search and rescue by the european commission and the commitment of several member states to set up an enhanced cooperation framework for search and rescue amongst relevant actors, including international humanitarian and maritime organisations. as you are aware, upon request of member states, the commission has developed an action plan for the central mediterranean. the action plan focused on the already mentioned coordinated approach to search and rescue, but also on enhanced cooperation with partners, countries and international organisations. it also includes the implementation of the voluntary solidarity mechanism to deal with the situation of migration, migratory pressure on the various routes and to facilitate transfer transfers of persons rescued at sea from the member states where they disembark. the eu needs a comprehensive migration policy that protects our borders, provides protection to those in need, and prevents the loss of migrants’ lives. the presidency is starting trialogue meetings on several legislative proposals on the pact on migration and asylum, and is working hard to obtain a negotiation mandate on other files of the pact. i thank you once again for the progress that has been made on the pact recently in your house. the swedish presidency will do our part to honour the agreement that was struck between the parliament and five council presidency with a view to reform eu migration and asylum policy before next year’s eu elections. thank you very much. i’m looking forward to the debate.
member of the commission. – mr president, minister, honourable members, on our agenda today, solidarity, solidarity with people, human beings who flee war or persecution because of the colour of their skin, or people who see no choice but the dangerous journey in hope of a better life. we must treat everyone with dignity and humanity, whether they face asylum or return. but solidarity also between member states – member states of destination and member states at the borders facing large numbers of arrivals. like italy this very moment, with more than 30 000 arrivals in the first three months of this year alone: almost a 300% increase compared to the same period last year. more than 1 500 arrived last weekend alone. many arrive on the island of lampedusa. the coast of lampedusa is also the coast of the european union. the people who arrive there are our shared responsibility. we support italy as a union. we have managed to relocate 950 people – two thirds from italy, many from lampedusa – thanks to the voluntary solidarity mechanism set up last june. we want member states to relocate more and faster. the commission coordinates and encourages member states to step up their efforts. we support italy with our funds. italy is the single biggest recipient of eu migration money, receiving almost eur 2 billion since 2015 from our migration and asylum funds. the commission is currently discussing with italy additional possible emergency financial support. we support italy with our eu agencies, which work closely with the italian police and coast guard, hand in hand and day by day, the eu asylum agency works with 200 staff in italy, also in lampedusa, where they help migrants communicate with authorities, and more than 300 frontex staff and six coastal patrol boats, two aeroplanes and one helicopter. they patrol the waves and search for ships in distress. last year, frontex helped save more than 50 000 lives at sea. and we support italy with our policies. we are implementing the central mediterranean action plan launched in november. as part of that plan, we continue to build strong migration partnerships with countries of origin, transit or destination. to support italy, we must strengthen our partnership with tunisia, so far, the main country of departure to italy this year. later this month, commissioner johansson will travel to tunisia to launch an anti—smuggling operational partnership to work together to prevent departures and loss of life and to increase returns, but also to provide credible alternatives for deadly journeys, launching a talent partnership with tunisia. to deal with the large increase in arrivals italy has announced a state of emergency. we understand the main objective of the state of emergency is to provide additional reception capacities with faster procedures in the current circumstances. we expect this state of emergency to help address the real challenges italy is confronted with. at the same time, no single member state can manage migration alone, and no single policy measure alone will be enough to manage migration. we need a european migration policy. we need a comprehensive migration policy and in short, we need the pact. so i thank you for taking another step forward today on the pact, another step forward towards a truly european migration policy, namely the start this morning of political negotiations between parliament and council on the asylum procedure regulation. after the start of negotiations on eurodac earlier this year and before the start, hopefully of negotiations, next week on screening, this shows europe can move forward on migration and asylum, that europe is moving forward on migration and asylum. solidarity with people in need, solidarity with member states in need: we can and must do both. and i call on you to do everything you can to reach an agreement on the pact before the end of this mandate.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, in the first months of this year, more than 30 000 migrants have arrived in italy – it’s about four times the number compared to the same period last year. in the central mediterranean route as a whole, there has been an increase in arrivals of over 300%. now we, as the epp, have been warning for a long time that we are sleepwalking into a new migration crisis and these numbers prove once again that our warnings were and are justified. the only difference is we are no longer sleepwalking into a crisis; we seem to have arrived in the middle of one, and it’s time to wake up. declaring a state of emergency, like in italy, is not only to speed up procedures and to take the immense pressure off the system. it is also a cry for help – a call for solidarity, for european solidarity, for a european challenge, and not the empty promise of solidarity that we have seen from member states like france or germany, but real, tangible help. in this context, i am happy that in this house, under the leadership of our rapporteur, tomas tobé, we have agreed on a position on the new regulation that will ensure fair responsibility-sharing. it is a crucial piece of the architecture under the new pact, and even though i am happy that some negotiations have started, it is absolutely crucial that we start negotiations on this crucial piece as soon as possible as well. but we also have to be realistic in our expectations. if arrivals continue to increase at the current rate, member states will never be able to cope, regardless of european rules on solidarity and regardless of the successful adoption of the pact. if we want to be really able to manage migration, we will also need to bring the number of irregular arrivals down. the external dimension of our migration policy is key in that regard. cooperation with countries of origin and transit, on border management, on returns and readmission and on the fight against criminal smuggling gangs must be urgently and significantly intensified. and especially tunisia, which the commissioner already mentioned, which now has taken over from libya as the most frequently used point of departure to the eu, must be our first and foremost priority. and it’s good that this is on the radar of both the council and the commission, but i would really ask you to act on this and to act on this more strongly.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, exploiting the overwhelming feeling of loneliness or lack of solidarity in the face of an emergency situation in the mediterranean is within the reach of any populism, any nationalism lurking on the far right. but it is a sadly wrong answer and one that leads to frustration and failure. that is meloni's decree. the problem is real, but the answer cannot be a national solution to a pan-european challenge. the answer is to build, finally, a shared responsibility and effective, credible and binding solidarity in cases of emergency and crisis situations, as the pact that has just received its negotiating mandate approved by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs requires. it is therefore astonishing and sad that this pact has been challenged in this parliament by the ecr group, of which meloni is vice-chairman. this is an absolutely untenable contradiction, because what this pact wants is precisely to create a regime in which solidarity is compulsory and is translated into resettlement programmes after rescue and salvage operations, which finally gives a european response to a problem which is, by definition, european: shared responsibility and binding solidarity.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner dear johannes hahn madam minister for european affairs dear jessika roswall dear colleagues, the beginning of 2023 marks the deadliest quarter for migrants in the mediterranean since 2017. this is the crisis we are facing: a humanitarian crisis that is pushing many people onto dangerous roads, people who are fighting with barbaric human trafficking networks. the year 2023 will also see a significant increase in asylum applications in the union, starting with large numbers arriving in italy and on the shores of the mediterranean, which puts these first-in country countries under disproportionate pressure. this challenge, ladies and gentlemen, is ours, collectively. our response, as you mentioned, commissioner, is the european pact on asylum and migration. i would like to welcome the major progress made towards this major reform, following the adoption at the end of march of all the negotiating mandates in the european parliament. we hope that the council will soon have a mandate on all the issues. we propose the creation of a solidarity mechanism at european level, as you mentioned, to help states under migratory pressure, particularly following rescues at sea. we want to speed up asylum procedures, make them more efficient, improve the integration of refugees and strengthen the return of those who cannot obtain asylum. this agreement is the result of a long negotiation process between the centrist and pro-european forces in our european parliament. what about mrs. meloni's family? what about the far right of mrs le pen? they're not here. the record of the populists in the european parliament is sketchy: empty chair policy during the negotiations, systematic opposition during the votes. on the contrary, my group, renew, and i are in favour of concrete and lasting solutions and strong european cooperation, in keeping with our common values.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, madam minister, mr commissioner, i thank president weber for wanting to promote a debate on the emergency situation in italy, which the left then wanted to dilute in the title by also adding a strong call for saving human lives, with particular reference to italy. a reference which, if i may say so, i found hairy. and i want to start here, thanking the extraordinary work of the italian coast guard, unjustly disgraced only a few weeks ago after the shipwreck off the coast of calabria. that coast guard that saves hundreds of lives every day, that allows us to say that italy does not accept lessons of humanity from anyone. the meloni government has been calling for months for european solutions to the migration problem, greater attention to the protection of external borders, a common policy for the return of irregular migrants, safe routes for those entitled to asylum and regulation of the work of ngos, and calls for increased external action towards the countries of origin and transit of migrants to reduce departures, the only real antidote to deaths at sea. this, as far as the central mediterranean is concerned, calls into question on the one hand tunisia with its economic crisis and political instability, on which the international community must intervene quickly with adequate financial instruments, and on the other hand libya, which in its eastern part is increasingly being used as a platform for new flows, used as a weapon of geopolitical destabilisation, as has already happened in recent months, for example by belarus against poland. the commission has already taken some steps in the right direction, and i want to acknowledge this to the commission, but it is not enough and, above all, it is not moving fast enough. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union's increased presence at sea is certainly desirable, but it must be directed towards protecting the external borders and fighting smugglers, not at all towards encouraging their trafficking. and it is also wrong to think that we can continue to propose the false opposition between primary and secondary movements, or to propose those more or less compulsory redistribution mechanisms which have never worked so far because nobody, not just the visegrád countries, likes to take illegal migrants into their homes. no mechanism will ever be effective unless we reduce the numbers leaving and separate legal from illegal migration, the protected routes for those entitled to asylum from those who leave with the legitimate hope, but unfortunately not always and not for everyone, of being able to find a fortune in europe. this is the line of realism and solidarity that we are asking of europe. time is running out.
let me remind you that we have an interpretation service and that speakers should speak a little slower, otherwise it will be a challenge for our interpreters.
in the name of the id group. mr president, for years the european commission has been telling us that the word 'solidarity' is the solution to the problem of immigration. solidarity, then. how much solidarity does macron's france have with the gendarmes in ventimiglia who are sending migrants back to italy? how much solidarity does socialist spain show when it deploys its army against the migrants in ceuta and melilla? how much support does social democratic germany have for a system of legal immigration to europe and then funding ngos that bring illegal immigrants to europe? how much solidarity is there with the social democratic denmark which no longer wants to be a welcoming country and wants to send immigrants back to rwanda? how much solidarity is there in this europe which promised to redistribute migrants, rotate ports, defend the continental borders and then did nothing? but you have actually done something, you have wasted billions giving them to erdoğan's turkey, from which boats are constantly leaving, with the result of witnessing dramatic tragedies at sea. we are tired of your solidarity propaganda and your incoherence. irregular immigration must be fought by all means. we need hotspots in the north african countries, cooperation with african countries and a serious european policy on the return of illegal immigrants. italy can no longer be left alone. enough talk, we need facts.
mr president, the 441 deaths since the beginning of the year in the central mediterranean and the 20 000 recorded since 2014 make this migratory route, the mediterranean route, the deadliest in the world. the main gateways to europe are the italian coasts, where more than 32 000 arrivals were recorded in 2023. the declaration of a state of emergency in italy for migrants made it clear that the meloni government, beyond empty slogans about naval blockades, never had concrete solutions to alleviate the migratory pressure. policies that hinder rather than facilitate relief are costing lives. while awaiting legal and secure access to the european union, effective action against the criminal networks of traffickers and effective implementation of the european principles of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility, italy is increasingly imposing disproportionate burdens in the management of flows and in search and rescue operations. those who call for walls on the frontiers are therefore opposed to the cooperation and common european response that are needed to avoid further journeys of despair and death.
mr president, i must thank mr manfred weber and the ppe group for introducing the subject with the decision of italy and solidarity, and immediately here in the european parliament once again the left even deleted, changed, wanted to change a title to remove the concept of solidarity from italy, because obviously they cannot have solidarity for this founding member state of europe, by saving human lives. we all agree on saving human lives, so much so that we voted in favour. even president mattarella has called for more organization. why would you do that? because this is important. what has italy done? he immediately appointed a commissioner for the state of emergency. why would you do that? because it indicates a situation of greater organization. to do what? to extend the reception and integration, which is exactly what the second level, which belongs to the local authorities, must do, and here in italy too the left always instead of helping to resolve this phase, as mattarella described it as "epic", what have they done? four regions have not declared their agreement with the new commissioner, they are obviously emilia romagna, puglia, tuscany and campania, and six large cities have also said no. so we must continue to fragment and boycott an organisation which must be established throughout the whole of the country with the full solidarity of europe. and i wanted to say to mr ferrara that we are not talking about building walls, we are talking about defending the external borders, and that is an important thing, so there is no longer any schengen, so when you go in and out of schengen it means that the databases no longer exist. this is not. the protection of migration also goes beyond the external borders, it also goes beyond strengthening the external borders and surveillance. but the left doesn't understand that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after 30 years of deaths at sea, do we still need to stress that human lives must be saved? instead of mourning their deaths, let's save these people. what do you mean, "what"? not by rejecting them, certainly, and certainly not by preventing them from reaching europe. if we want to talk about solidarity, we should talk about a european mare nostrum, a system of search and rescue at sea which is not just the responsibility of the countries of first entry, but shared by all the member states. i am speaking to you, colleagues on the right, and i am serious. do you really think that we are in an emergency phase or are you looking for pretexts to water down the main guarantees of the asylum system? your initiatives are damaging to italy and europe as well, and your demagogy is turning into a problem what is in fact an opportunity for the people who arrive and a wealth for the countries that welcome them. walls, fences, cpr and the criminalisation of ngos are nothing but the scapegoats of prehistoric policies, as president mattarella has argued, and, i would add, inhuman ones too.
mr president, the debate on migration is always an ideological battleground. you did not agree on the title of this debate either, and the left wanted to change it because they did not want the word 'emergency' in the title. so, what's happening in italy seems normal to you? you think that in italy there is a debate about why the left does not want the repatriation centers. a regional councillor in tuscany - and i heard tonight also the president of the tuscany region, eugenio giani - has described the cpr of the camps as for jews, thus insulting the memory of the shoah and of the entire people of israel. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the way forward is always the same, starting from legality. it is irregular immigration that produces deaths at sea. i've never heard of an immigrant with a regular visa who takes a plane, dies on the way. that is why we must find joint solutions. even military operations to uphold the rule of law. the european credibility is at stake. help us to stop the boat people, help us to stop the migrants from leaving, help us to promote orderly immigration and you will help us to save lives in the mediterranean. we need to firmly reaffirm in europe the right of member countries to decide who can enter our homes. we must be able to accommodate those who want to work and integrate. there's no room for the others. this is a cultural, economic and social battle. europe must return to defend its roots, its values and its borders, and it can do so by helping italy, where european culture has its ancient roots. (the speaker agrees to reply to a 'blue card' speech)
the answer is "blue card". look, in italy we saw the captain, your captain carola rackete, outflank the italian coast guard and then do something that has never been done before. we have seen in italy in recent months - because you may not know why we are here discussing the emergency in italy - we have seen 31 000 migrants arrive in italy precisely because your reception policy wants more and more of them. you attacked the government because they're not getting enough? how many do you want in europe, you haven't told us, how many immigrants do you want to bring to europe? tell the citizens. more and more and more.
in the name of the id group. madam president, thank you, mr commissioner, for being here, thank you to the colleagues who were with me, both some of them on the election mission in 2021 and on the most recent visit we made as a delegation. there are so many images that i will never forget in my life. a people coming out of 40 years of war. we in the west have important responsibilities too. external influences such as those in turkey and iran are causing very negative and problematic effects. a kurdish issue still to be resolved. these are just some of the issues that give the idea of the complexity of a reality that we have to deal with. political parties that have military militias, militias that become political parties. a political and religious sectarianism that is very similar to the one that destroyed lebanon. western men and women, men, our military who train and train the iraqis and often make a sacrifice in this regard and minorities who need to be protected more, even perhaps with our interest. it is at this time that the yazidi community celebrates the beginning of the new year. i visited their temples, temples that have come back to life. the yazidi people suffered a genocide, which the german parliament in the bundestag has recognized and which i would like to see recognized here one day. i also visited christian churches that have repopulated themselves. these communities, along with the kurds, along with the iraqis, fought and helped us to free ourselves from isis. i mean, we all owe them something. and it's because of them that isis is today a residual phenomenon, almost completely defeated. the fragility of this people, their future, the future of iraq and kurdistan, concerns us and we must deal with them more. i therefore support what the commissioner has said and i agree with him completely.
in the name of the id group. madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr lópez, for the work we are doing in this debate today. we are discussing the union's rapid deployment capability, the union's tactical groups and article 44 of the treaty on european union. this is a defence capability that member states have decided to plan, as enshrined in the new european defence doctrine, the strategic compass, and sustainability, the continued availability of forces and adequate levels of readiness are required. it also calls for the completion of the union's tactical groups through so-called 'strategic enablers', for the ambition of the compass to be reflected in a strengthening of the command and control architecture and in european industry and for synergies to be sought with nato, as strengthening the union's strategic autonomy remains a shared objective with nato. moreover, the states know that they can and must take advantage of the opportunities for cooperation provided for in article 44 of the treaty. the european and atlantic objective is one: we must do more and do better together to stop the continuing mass atrocities which are creating instability in the international community and which are preventing the planning of a better development for all, as recent events have taught us, which we always treat with great respect towards the ukrainian people, and as the bitter lesson of afghanistan has taught us.
madam president, the european union and the council of europe have a longstanding and constructive relationship aimed at protecting human rights, fundamental freedoms and democracy. this strategic partnership needs to be further strengthened and real results achieved in the areas within our competence. at the same time, however, it is important that we do not dilute our cooperation by constantly trying to push through certain issues that are controversial and on which there is no agreement between member states. i therefore oppose calls for the european union to accede to the istanbul convention as a matter of urgency, even though some member states strongly oppose such a procedure. i consider the search for clear consensus on such fundamental issues to be key to our cooperation, but also to strengthening citizens' trust in the institution. let us focus our collective strength on those areas where we can mutually agree to contribute to the protection of human rights and democracy.
madam president, today i supported the report on sustainable carbon cycles, which does not introduce new legislation yet, but is in fact the european parliament's position on the european commission's intention to set up certain rules to incentivise and reward farmers who voluntarily engage in farming towards sustainable practices and the promotion of biodiversity. we highlight the opportunity for farmers and forest managers to change their business model by turning carbon storage, so-called carbon agriculture, into a source of income. the report further recognises that food production naturally remains the top priority for the agricultural sector. in our view, carbon management should be voluntary and the rewarding of the process must be scientifically demonstrable and have a positive impact on the climate and the environment. clear frameworks for the way forward must be set, of course. i support the report.
madam president, i also supported this report. for a number of reasons. carbon capture is a real technological challenge. perhaps one of the older methods that i could mention here is that if you make a very high-quality table out of wood that will last for decades, maybe even centuries, you've done a lot of work, because there's a lot of carbon trapped in that wood. we need to use all the potential of carbon capture, both in agriculture, as my colleague has spoken about, and in the field of taking it directly from the atmosphere and putting it into products like this. i think we need to support all technologies, including the ccs method, which colleagues on the left say is unsupportable for a number of ideological reasons. we must not be ideological, but truly innovative, and i think that is fully captured in this report. although i wasn't entirely thrilled with the passage of some of the amendments.
madam president, the covid-19 pandemic has shown the need for faster digitisation of public services. digitalisation, when implemented effectively, can significantly reduce bureaucratic barriers for citizens and businesses, speed up many operations or reduce costs. i welcome the principle of 'only grow', which means that citizens do not have to report facts or provide documents to the authorities more than once. of course, these services are also accessible to people with disabilities. however, for the digitisation of public services to be successful, we must not forget the key prerequisite for its functioning: a fast and stable internet connection. this must be accessible to all, including people living in rural or sparsely populated areas, such as vulnerable households. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on digital services, in particular by ensuring that the union's digital services are not misused. only then can we harness the full potential of this process.
the next hearing will be held tomorrow, wednesday, april 19, 2023, at 9:00 a.m.
the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the minutes of this sitting will be sent to parliament for approval tomorrow, 19 april 2023, after the votes.
i have three announcements to make before we enter the debate. on the one hand, following the resignation of mr nikos androulakis, parliament, acting on a proposal from the committee on legal affairs, shall, in accordance with the rules of procedure, declare its seat vacant with effect from 3 may 2023 and inform the competent national authorities.
the second news is that mr alexis georgoulis has left the left and is sitting with the non-attached members of our house, effective 19 april 2023.
the third message is a slightly longer one on the decisions of several committees on the opening of interinstitutional negotiations under article 71 (1) of the treaty, announced at the opening of the meeting on monday, 17 april. the president has received the request for a vote on the decision of the libe committee to open negotiations on the following procedures from the ecr and id groups and from non-attached members reaching at least the middle threshold, in accordance with rule 71 (2) of the rules of procedure: regulation on crisis management and force majeure; the screening regulation; regulation on asylum and migration management; regulation establishing a centralised system for identifying member states where information on convictions of third-country nationals and stateless persons is available; directive on long-term residents. the vote on all these items will take place tomorrow, thursday 20 april 2023. as regards the other decisions on the opening of interinstitutional negotiations, the president did not receive any request for a vote in parliament from members or from one or more political groups reaching at least the middle threshold. the committees can therefore start negotiations immediately.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on 'children abducted from ukraine and the icc arrest warrant against vladimir putin' (2023/2640 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, when 12-year-old sasha was forcibly removed from his home in ukraine to a russian prison camp, he was separated from his mother. ‘they said that no one needs me, that i would get a new family, a russian family,’ he said. there are at least several hundred, perhaps thousands of ukrainian children like sasha who have become victims of a war crime. the council is firmly committed to ensuring full accountability for war crimes and the most serious crimes committed in connection with russia’s war of aggression against ukraine. as the european council underlined, russia must immediately ensure the safe return of ukrainians forcibly transferred or deported to russia, in particular children. in march, the european council took note of the arrest warrant issued by the international criminal court a few days earlier. these arrest warrants involved not only russia’s president vladimir putin, but also his commissioner for children’s rights, maria lvova-belova, for the alleged war crime of the unlawful deportation and transfer of ukrainian children from occupied territories of ukraine to russia. to investigate these war crimes the icc needs sufficient means and resources. therefore, over the last year, eu member states have provided additional support to the court as its workload has increased. at a conference for justice ministers in london in march, many member states indicated that they will continue to provide extra support in the near future. they also stated their intention to assist the icc in setting up a field office in kyiv. while the arrest warrants show how proceedings are progressing in the icc, i want to stress that the fight against impunity cannot solely rely on the international criminal court. for instance, the discussions about the establishment of a mechanism to prosecute the crime of aggression are well under way. the international centre for the prosecution of the crime of aggression in the hague, which will be supported by eurojust, is an important first step towards accountability for the crime of aggression. we hope to inaugurate the centre before the end of june. in its conclusions from december last year, the council insisted on the need to maintain our efforts on several other aspects related to the core international crimes committed in ukraine. this includes the support of national prosecutors and investigations both by ukrainian authorities and by the authorities in the member states. the joint investigation team and the new core international crimes evidence database are two concrete examples of these efforts. i would also like to point out that eurojust support for cooperation between the national level and the icc seems to be working well. the swedish presidency will, together with the commission, continue working to ensure a good coordination of all efforts to ensure accountability for the crimes committed in ukraine. thank you very much for your attention. i’m looking forward to the debate.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for organising this debate on a painful and urgent matter. on 17 march this year, the pre-trial chamber ii of the international criminal court issued warrants for the arrest of vladimir putin and maria lvova-belova, the russian commissioner for children’s rights for the war crime of unlawful forced deportation and transfer of ukrainian children to the russian federation. the fact that the court singled out the acts of unlawful forced deportation and transfer of ukrainian children as the war crimes, as a base for the first arrest warrants since the start of the russian invasion, illustrates both the urgency and severity rightly attached to the issue. using the pretext of evacuation, russia has started forcibly transferring and deporting ukrainian children from non-government controlled territories of ukraine to russia just before the launch of russia’s full-scale invasion in february 2022. the acts of deportation, or forcible transfer of children, have been reported by several international and ukrainian organisations, including the international commission of inquiry, the international committee of the red cross, the un human rights monitoring mission in ukraine, the un high commissioner for refugees bureau in russia and the national information bureau of ukraine. while the number of forcibly deported or transferred ukrainian children varies according to the source, the national information bureau of ukraine has received information of over 16 000 children concerned, as of last friday. the scale is, in other words, massive. the hague conference on private international law, of which russia is a member, has issued a statement recalling that international and national adoption procedures for children citizens of ukraine, shall not be carried out in any country of the world during the duration of martial law in ukraine, without due regard to the legislation of ukraine or pending the approval of the ukrainian authorities. unicef has issued a similar statement and ukraine has suspended its inter-country adoption programme until further notice in light of the russian war of aggression. adoption as a consequence of illegal deportation is a crime and shall not be tolerated. the un high commissioner for refugees’ office in russia and the independent russian tv channel dozhd have also identified ukrainian orphans in russian orphanages, some of which submit the children to the so-called military and patriotic education. the incidents identified by the international criminal court’s office of the prosecutor to base the arrest warrants on include the deportation of at least hundreds of children taken from orphanages and children’s care homes. in many cases, adoption of these children by russians has allegedly followed. the prosecutor alleges that these acts, amongst others, demonstrate an intention to permanently remove these children from their own country. at the time of these deportations, the ukrainian children were protected persons under the fourth geneva convention. the court also underlined that most acts in this pattern of deportations were carried out in the context of the acts of aggression committed by russian military forces against the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine, which began already in 2014. as a result of the issuance of the arrest warrants, the international criminal court may transmit a request for the arrest and surrender of the suspects to any state of the territory of which those persons may be found and shall request the cooperation of that state in the arrest and surrender of the suspects. states parties to the court, including all eu member states, have an obligation to comply with requests for arrest and surrender. russia’s public reaction to these arrest warrants has further exemplified its blatant disrespect towards the international rules-based order. the eu has already publicly noted the arrest warrants against vladimir putin and maria lvova-belova, and welcomed and encouraged all further efforts to ensure full accountability for war crimes and the most serious crimes in connection with russia’s war of aggression against ukraine, towards the enforcement of international justice. we will continue our support to the international criminal court. since the start of this horrific war, the commission has provided over eur 10 million to the court to strengthen its investigation and prosecution capacities. we are also dedicated to support national investigations opened into international crimes committed in ukraine. in particular, the commission has extended the mandate of eurojust to collect and store evidence and strengthened it to be well equipped to support the joint investigation team uniting ukraine and six eu member states, in which the court’s office of the prosecutor participates as well. eurojust is competent to coordinate criminal investigations and prosecutions of individuals in cases where the deportation or transfer of population amounts to international crimes. following the request by the office of the prosecutor, competent national authorities participating in the joint investigation team have already shared information and evidence on deportations of children and can continue to do so in the future. this is crucial for case-building, such as regarding the cases against vladimir putin and maria lvova-belova. the chief prosecutor, karim khan, acknowledged that the participation of his office in the team, under the auspices of eurojust, has facilitated the swift coordination on relevant information and evidence. established in the framework of the joint investigation team and hosted by eurojust, the international centre for the prosecution of the crime of aggression against ukraine will provide a structure to coordinate investigations and exchange relevant evidence relating to the crime of aggression. with the prompt support of the european parliament, the regulation on eurojust has been amended, which allowed the agency to set up a database to store and analyse evidence of international crimes committed in ukraine. and we work closely with the office of the prosecutor general in ukraine, including to make sure they have all means at their disposal to conduct the investigations. honourable members, the eu also imposed sanctions against 16 individuals responsible for the deportation and forced adoption of ukrainian children from areas occupied by russian forces since 2022, including maria lvova-belova. the eu continues its efforts to identify perpetrators for possible further measures. looking ahead, we remain fully committed to make all efforts to ensure that those responsible for the crime of unlawful forced deportation or transfer of ukrainian children are held accountable and that the children of ukraine are returned safely to their families and communities. in march 2023, president von der leyen announced a joint european commission-poland initiative, in partnership with ukraine, aiming at bringing back these children. the starting point will be a conference to pull together international pressure to take all possible measures to establish the whereabouts of these children and bring them back home. according to the ukrainian children of war platform, only 361 children have so far returned to ukraine. in this light, the eu supports the mandate of the special representative of the un secretary-general on children and armed conflict to engage with ukraine and russia on the issue of deportation and children and child protection. we hope that information and data on ukrainian children and their status can be swiftly established and a returns mechanism instigated. as always, we will keep the well-being and best interests of the children at the forefront of all our actions. honourable members, thank you very much for your attention.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, madam commissioner, presidency, dear colleagues, war crime perpetrator putin is determined to destroy ukraine’s sovereignty, the lives of ukrainian people and the future of ukrainian children. the russian occupation authorities have forcibly and fraudulently deported or, to be more precise, kidnapped more than 20 000 ukrainian children. these innocent children are being illegally adopted on an accelerated basis and re-educated into russian citizens. the russian government, which is still a member of the united nations security council, unfortunately, is falsifying personal stories of ukrainian children, changing their names and erasing their identities. none of us would like to find ourselves in the shoes of the parents of these children. i call on the european union and the international community to use all possible means to locate, identify and return ukrainian children to their families, as well as to their homeland, ukraine.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, this debate was put on the agenda a few days before the world heard the words of some mercenaries from the wagner company, which i quote: "i carried out the order with this hand, i killed the children, including the five-year-old". these words probably didn't need to be added to the horror unleashed by vladimir putin, but they can help us understand the depth of what is happening in ukraine. there is no violence more despicable than that perpetrated against children. that is why we must shed full light on the allegations of the deportation of minors from the occupied areas of ukraine by the russian federation. we all know that the international arrest warrants issued against vladimir putin and belova are merely instruments of political pressure, nothing more. and unfortunately, we know that in the history of mankind, this has happened before and it's likely to happen again. what it has done and will always do is make the difference between being indifferent or not. let me end with a quote from edmund burke, the father of conservative thought: "for evil to triumph, it is enough for good men to do nothing".
mr president, thank you for your words. from the collective moral conscience of the rome statute of the international criminal court, which recalls the shared heritage that flows from the cultures of the peoples of the earth, they obtain the two arrest warrants for vladimir putin and maria lvova-belova for the alleged crimes of deportation of children from the occupied territories of ukraine into the russian federation. it is prohibited by international law for occupying powers to transfer civilians from the territory in which they live to other territories, and children enjoy special protection under the geneva convention, but their arrest will depend on international cooperation. if president putin goes to south africa for the brics summit next august, that country will be faced with the challenge of choosing between standing with the international community, respecting the common rules of coexistence among peoples, or protecting a man wanted for very serious crimes. the accession of south africa to the rome statute encourages us to strengthen all the instruments necessary to respect the rules-based international order. the european union must help save those children who are part of europe's future.
mr president, the accusation against russia of deporting ukrainian children was first raised by the ukrainian ombudsman lyudmila denisova, who was later fired by the kiev government for spreading too many lies. unfortunately, his accusations, which were never proven, were picked up by other ukrainian politicians and spread by various media. in reality, the so-called deportation concerns orphaned children who are taken in by russian families in safety, or children who are placed in the care of russians by their parents and brought to russia temporarily and then returned to their families. these children have become orphans because the ukrainian armed forces use the civilian population as human shields, as also reported by amnesty international. but russian president putin is held responsible for these alleged deportations and therefore hit by the arrest warrant of the international criminal court, never recognized by russia, but also by the united states and ukraine itself. it is not clear how this measure can achieve anything other than to further aggravate relations between europe and russia and to inhibit any possible attempt to find a negotiated solution to the conflict. let us stop with the instrumental and biased accusations, and work for peace if we want to save children.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr bettel, welcome to the european parliament. you appear before this house as the representative of a country, luxembourg, which has traditionally been at the forefront of european integration. more than seven decades after luxembourg laid the foundations of the benelux, our union is facing one of the greatest changes in our history. mr bettel, as you said in your speech, the time has come to decide how we want to continue to build europe. and i will add something to the elders: with whom do we want to continue to build europe? the latest episodes show that the european union is witnessing a moment in which some are abandoning their moderation and the far right, with policies of hatred against science, women, lgbt people and immigrants, is deteriorating the gains made. in poland, women are persecuted and condemned for standing up for their rights. mrs meloni in italy stifles the rights of lgbtqi people to register children of homosexual couples and declares a state of emergency to remove any protection for immigrants. speaking of another fundamental challenge to which you have referred, the climate, in spain the popular party and the far right of vox are endangering the future of a natural jewel like doñana, and political leaders like the vice-president of my region, castilla y león, say that we should leave the children alone, who will decide when they are older whether co2 is a polluting gas or not. so, with all of this, it's time to choose where in history we want to be. ladies and gentlemen, in the context of putin's war against ukraine, our citizens are struggling to find decent work, to buy affordable housing or to ensure education for their children. and at the same time, the number of millionaires is increasing. how can we ask citizens to resist when there are multinational companies that pay hardly any taxes in the european union? mr bettel, we must also commit ourselves to a fair tax policy. the social democrats know where we are going. we will continue to lead the response to all these challenges. we will continue to defend the rule of law to protect minorities from attacks by the extreme right. the time has come to make a commitment. i, like you, also thank those who help me write some great speeches. i had a way of ending by asking you which side you wanted to be on in this european construction. after your speech, i do not need to ask you that, and i shall therefore thank you for your commitment to continue building that europe which is more just, more social and more equal.
for the greens/efa group madam president, my name is prime minister, my name is xavier, and welcome! i'm a little moved because i've always had a small affection and even an affirmed affection for the grand duchy. you should know that for ten years, in my previous life, i was a sales representative for a large firm, and my main client was in colmar-berg, in the grand duchy. guess who i'm talking about? and to them, i was den belsche vertrieder, you know. - what? no, it was not the grand duke. it's right next door. but what happiness ! it is a pleasure to have you here and to hear your triple plea. advocate for our union first. so it is clear that for small countries like ours, sovereignty in the twenty-first century can only be built together. but as one of your predecessors, who later became president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, said, there are two kinds of countries in europe: small countries and those that have not yet understood that they are small. i think he was right about that. and i am glad that in the union, unity has prevailed in the face of the pandemic, in the face of war, and i believe that this is what makes us strong. but this union is not just any union. it is a union based first and foremost on values, as you said. i never forget the compass for us in article 2 of the treaties, which lists the values on which the european union is built, starting with respect for human dignity. no dignity for the citizens of europe. it's about human dignity. regardless of gender, sexual orientation, origin or beliefs, a human being is a human being and has the right to be respected. i find your advocacy on this particularly moving. and to be able to count on you as a defender of these values in the council, i would say that, in fact, it should not be extraordinary. but i note that there is not unanimity in the council. and so having champions of the union's fundamental values in the council is of absolutely central importance to us. finally, as regards your advocacy for the ecological transition, i have often wondered: 'but in the end, among the 27 heads of state or government, who is really the champion of the green deal? other i don't see much of the world except you. really, who understands the centrality of this challenge, its crucial importance for our future, of course, in the face of a planet that may become uninhabitable, and for our economic future? and you understood that. it is no wonder that our two political families are associated in the luxembourg government. and i hope it lasts! anyway, i want to thank you for all this. keep going, don't let go of anything. you know we're on your side. we share the same values.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, mr prime minister, welcome to the house. the wonderful castles of luxembourg remind us of the history of our continent. a history of over a thousand years that has produced a civilization we are proud of, to love and preserve. i know that i am not saying anything new to you by reminding you that luxembourg is also famous for some overly aggressive tax practices. this allows many companies to reduce or avoid paying taxes in their home countries, creating unfair competition within the european union. i am sure you will agree with me that if we are to ensure proper economic development, we must defend the real economy against an economy based on finance alone. luxembourg is also home to schengen, where the agreement establishing a common area of free movement, which abolished the internal borders of the union, came into being. this is undoubtedly one of the most important achievements in cooperation between european states. the appalling paradox of today is that internal circulation is no longer as free as it should be, unlike external circulation. on the one hand, borders are being built to prevent secondary movements of illegal migrants between one european state and another, between france and italy for example. on the other hand, there is a call for the opening of the external borders to illegal immigration, turning the countries of first entry into huge refugee camps or open-air reception centres. this is often accompanied by public statements of severe criticism of the countries on the external border of the european union, because they are not sufficiently welcoming. but if an illegal immigrant manages to cross the internal border, he is caught like an animal by the police and deported to the state where he first landed. it is this hypocrisy that we have long denounced and that we are fighting against with firmness, realism and humanity. the europe we conservatives believe in has the breath of the great national stories that make it up. that is why we adopt the motto of luxembourg: "we want to remain what we are".
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this is a very important moment for our future. it is clear that there are conflicting actions in the areas of industry and sometimes public interest, health, soil. i think we absolutely have to change the paradigm: we must no longer let money be the driver of our choices, but a vision that we must give to our children and future generations. so it is only by ensuring a european strategy based - as you have said, commissioner - on scientific evidence, coherence, synergies with the environment, labour, chemicals, water, soil and waste that we can ensure the full implementation of what the commission is proposing. the elimination of these perennial chemicals from the european production cycle is first and foremost a battle of civilizations. ensuring a clean environment while protecting public health is the challenge not of the next decade but of the next century.
in the name of the id group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after a long and intense negotiation both in the econ committee and in the trilogue, we have arrived at the text of the regulation on markets in crypto-assets (mica), where a very great and excellent job has undoubtedly been done. i would like to point out, however, a few criticisms. the european union is the first to introduce rules in this area, but with the risk of catching up with the rapidly evolving world of crypto and crypto-assets, with the real danger of issuing an already outdated regulation. this is why i have always strongly supported the need to promote a world conference on crypto-assets, a kind of bretton woods, in order to plan and harmonize common rules between all actors, especially those outside europe. we have, however, achieved our objective of setting a few simple standards in a field which we could define as the wild west, and this is mainly to protect investors/consumers. however, we must not forget that we live in a highly globalised world of financial markets, where, in the absence of a common approach to the matter, enormous competition problems could arise due to the strong regulatory asymmetries. although it is widely believed that european regulations often add unnecessary red tape, in this case we can say that, by introducing the mica regulation, we have helped to give this sector a huge opportunity, by legally recognising it, and thus to have set a path for the future.
in writing. the pandemic and the ensuing crisis have highlighted the many problems facing health systems in individual member states. unfortunately, years of austerity-oriented budgetary policies have meant that over time, regular and intensive care beds and entire wards have been cut and there has been a reduction in all health care staff, doctors, nurses and other workers. today, with the worst of the pandemic behind us, it is necessary for the european union and its member states to learn from past mistakes by investing more in strengthening individual health systems. in this context, the eu, while respecting the national competences of individual states in health matters, must promote greater coordination by encouraging the exchange of good practice and the best technologies at our disposal. one area in which the eu must act and coordinate member states' activities is the fight against cancer: we need to quickly recover all the screening and diagnostics that were delayed due to covid-19, ensure that everyone has the best care, and invest more and more in medical and scientific research.
mr president, with the taliban in power, the status of women in afghanistan has gone backwards by 20 years. in the name of an archaic and extremist interpretation of sharia law, women have been forced to wear full veils and have been banned not only from working but also from studying. almost all girls' schools have been closed, and those who study or teach in secret are doing so at the risk of their lives. the recent arrest of matiullah wesa, who is guilty of promoting the education of girls and teenagers, shatters the last hopes of an entire generation of women who are being robbed not only of their rights but also of their future. if we are to be truly consistent in condemning the taliban regime, let us stress the need for the rights denied in afghanistan to be guaranteed in our civilized europe, where unfortunately many young immigrant women or daughters of immigrants are often initiated into early marriages instead of higher education with the shortsighted complicity of the left, which promotes the islamic veil instead of our western values of equality and freedom.
mr president, i must confess to being surprised at the choice of the title: "a call for further urgent measures". this is a report, the one we are discussing, which calls for radical changes in the food sector, in the energy sector, in transport, even in the food sector, in order to achieve the goal of reducing emissions. but the question is: what else do you expect us to do? while our global competitors are going in a completely different direction, here the illusion is fostered that tightening the belt to the point of suffocation will suffice to solve what is in fact a global problem and therefore requires a global solution. you have banned the sale of petrol cars, we have asked the member states to rebuild all their buildings, you have asked europeans not to eat meat, all in the name of the fight to cut emissions. and all this without any consideration for the social and economic repercussions that derive from this stigma of europe as the only one to blame for global warming. over 92% of emissions come from outside europe. this is a fact, and it means that the problem cannot be solved without the involvement of other countries, and if we in this house do not understand this, we are not going anywhere.
mr president, climate change is dividing the scientific community as well. some scientists believe that climate change is part of the natural cycle of world history, while others believe that it threatens the future of the planet. whatever the case, it is clear that our society has become more polluting since the industrial revolution. some say that to answer that question, mankind must "decline" in consumption and in lifestyles. they're the happy decline ones, but when has decline ever been happy in the history of the world? in the middle ages, nobody would have discussed co2 emissions, and environmentalists in 1200 would have all been unemployed. some say that the human population itself must decline, because humanity itself is not an opportunity, but a problem. they're the same ones, not by chance, who stain artwork and everything comes back: it is nihilism. i reject this approach which leads nowhere. the answer to the pollution of the planet is more development, not less. today, we're fortunate to have, for example, robots that collect plastic from the sea and clean up our rivers. we have the engineering of the scrubbers, which was unimaginable just 50 years ago. the technological and energy transition can happen, but it has to happen at the right time, otherwise we risk impoverishing people and starving them to death, not from overheating. we have the opportunity to live in balance with nature and to deal with climate change without succumbing, the solution is technology, progress, without hysteria and without catastrophism. if i had to choose between elon musk and greta thunberg, i'd choose musk. (the speaker agrees to reply to a 'blue card' speech)
the answer is "blue card". that's exactly what i told you. in the middle ages, there were no industries, there was no industrial revolution, but it is precisely thanks to the industrial revolution and, let's say, also thanks to emissions, that progress makes us live to 90 and not die at 20. unfortunately, it has contraindications, of course, the industrial revolution has pollution, but without that industrial revolution you would not be here today, we would not have come by car, we would not have returned home by plane. you want to go back to the middle ages, that's the problem. i agree that there must be an ecological transition, but we must do it at the right time, not by impoverishing people, not by degrowth. that's not the answer. the answer is progress.
madam president, commissioner, it is obviously necessary to review the role of de minimis, especially in the mountain areas of our continent. we know that doing business, doing industry, doing agriculture in mountain areas already entails inherent difficulties in the role that the territory plays for the people who live there, so it is necessary to take account of these peculiarities, as my colleagues before me have argued, whether for islands, remote areas or outermost areas, and to review this mechanism taking into account the peculiarities of the whole of european territory. europe is not a big flat box, all the same, but it is a large territory made up of different needs, different demands, different peculiarities. if we want to enable these territories to develop and achieve cohesion at a level acceptable at european level, we must take these difficulties into account in advance, otherwise we risk always leaving the usual behind and always favouring the others.
that concludes the vote. (the sitting was suspended at 12.35)
the minutes from yesterday’s sitting and the texts adopted are available. are there any comments? i see there are no comments, so the minutes are approved.
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on the eu action plan against trafficking in cultural goods (2023/2646(rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, dear members, the art and antiquities market was valued at almost usd 68 billion globally in 2022, and demand keeps on growing. the market for cultural goods has some vulnerabilities attractive to criminals: buyers can be anonymous, the price of art is subjective and items can be moved easily. the illegal status of a cultural object is not immediately visible, like with weapons or drugs. this helps traffickers too. for all this, the illicit trafficking in cultural goods is appealing for organised criminal groups. they operate across borders using shell companies, free ports and cash to hide the money trail. they also benefit from the increasing online sales where provenance and authenticity checks are less thorough. interpol counted over 850 000 artefacts seized in 2020, more than half in europe, and this may only be the tip of the iceberg. now, what can we do against that? we are not powerless against this situation and we are already doing quite a lot. many eu countries have law enforcement units that specialise in cultural property crimes. the amount of goods seized in europe proves their positive impact. the commission supports europol’s work to tackle this crime within the european multidisciplinary law enforcement platform called empact. as an example, pandora is an annual law enforcement operation involving many member states, europol, interpol, the us and others. so far, operation pandora has led to more than 400 arrests, resulting in the recovery of almost 150 000 cultural goods since 2016. now about the action plan. to further address these challenges, the commission presented the eu action plan against trafficking in cultural goods last december. this was announced in the 2021 eu strategy to tackle organised crime. it is a comprehensive plan to fight organised crime effectively and to protect cultural heritage within and beyond the eu. to succeed with this task, the action plan has four strategic objectives. one: prevention and detection of crimes by market participants and cultural heritage institutions. two: leveraging law enforcement and judicial capabilities. three: international cooperation, including source and transit countries. and four: support from all key stakeholders to protect cultural goods from crime. the action plan sets out what the commission will do and what member states are encouraged to do. on the commission side, we will help improving the intelligence picture to make cultural goods trafficking more visible. we will consider measures to improve the traceability of cultural goods transactions across member states, and we will close loopholes on the illicit trade of cultural goods to export and import regulation and border controls. we also will enhance our dialogue with the art market. importantly, the commission already supports source and transit countries. we are supporting ukraine, for instance, to protect and evacuate its cultural heritage endangered by the russian war of aggression, and we are working with unesco on fighting illicit trafficking of cultural goods in the western balkans. for member states, the action plan contains several recommendations. to take more advantage of europol’s and eurojust’s support to reinforce law enforcement and judicial cooperation in this field. to sign, ratify and implement the council of europe nicosia convention on offences relating to cultural property. to boost the capacity of national law enforcement and judicial authorities. they can do it by setting up and training specialised law enforcement units and prosecutors, or providing basic training for police and customs. finally, member states should ensure that public and private collections register their possessions and report property crimes. it is clear that we all have a role to play when it comes to stepping up the fight against trafficking of cultural goods, whether it is at eu level or national or just stakeholder level.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner schmit, in 2020 over 850 000 cultural goods, including paintings, sculptures, archaeological objects and library materials, were seized globally. more than half of these items were seized in europe. this data conceals a problem of vast proportions, since many cases are still not detected. cultural heritage is of enormous artistic, historical and scientific importance. illicit trafficking can have a devastating and irreversible impact on cultural heritage, destroying parts of our collective memory and depriving citizens of testimonies of their history. among the actions proposed in the action plan, i believe that the promotion and strengthening of international cooperation is essential, especially with third countries, since this is a crime of a cross-border nature. european action cannot be confined to the union's borders, but must go beyond them. the commission should therefore respond to requests from third countries as well. such as the establishment of a policy dialogue at ministerial level to promote the protection of cultural heritage from illegal activities. countries such as italy have been recognised as examples to follow in this area, and italy was the first country in the world to set up and make available to unesco the 'blue helmets of culture' task force. similarly, many latin american countries are progressively strengthening their policies to protect against the sale of archaeological finds. a high-level political dialogue would allow for fruitful exchange with the aim of further facilitating and strengthening international cooperation. there are still weaknesses in data collection. some states not only lack specialized units, but also lack national databases dedicated to the registration of stolen artworks and linked to those of interpol. the lack of these elements also limits the receipt of information on an international scale. finally, data collection must be accompanied by a strong awareness-raising activity in schools, among local communities, in universities, as there is still little awareness of the damage that illicit trafficking in cultural goods can cause. the illegal traffic is therefore a serious, heinous crime, because it takes away the common goods from the public enjoyment, transforming the use value, the beauty available to all into exchange value and the commodity available to the very few. it is our responsibility to do our utmost to ensure the recovery of a heritage that belongs to all humanity.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for the last 25 years, under the guise of economic rationality, austerity has been set up as a dogma in europe. a dogma with its apostles who pose as guardians of good management, these fetishes that take the form of deficit and debt ratios that have no scientific basis, and of course its morality that exalts the sense of collective effort and sacrifice. collective effort and sacrifice, you say? but for whose benefit? as is often the case, dogma is not neutral. it serves the interests of a few at the expense of the many. the reality is that austerity has always been applied selectively in europe. on the one hand, the priests of the fiscal orthodoxy wanted to systematically cut public investment in education and health, and sell public assets to the private sector. on the other hand, from the financial crisis to the war in ukraine to the pandemic, it's a bunch of crazy. i mean a package of public money that the same people pour into the big business without conditions and without bargaining. this is evidenced by the huge profits in sectors such as fossil fuels and finance. this selective austerity is creating a double injustice, both social and climate. it increases the level of public debt to ultimately enrich the rentiers of the system without benefiting the greatest number of our fellow citizens or the planet. the real issue is not whether to choose between the supposedly frugal and the spendthrift, between the supposedly virtuous and the promiscuous. no, i'm not going. the only question worth asking is: what is our public debt to be used for? should it finance fossil fuels, bank bailouts, tax breaks for the richest, or, on the contrary, fight climate change, make our societies more just and resilient in the uncertain world that is ours? this is the second choice we make in our green party. that is why we want a thorough review of the budgetary rules. firstly, we call for the deactivation of the deficit rule, which has no scientific value. what counts is not so much the deficit figure as the public, including economic, utility of the expenditure it finances. secondly, we propose that the sustainability of debt should now be assessed in the light of climate risk. the reality is that the best way to make our public finances unsustainable is to delay investing in the green transition. on the contrary, we have every interest in speeding them up, and our rules must allow this. these reforms are aimed at moving towards an economic strategy that is no longer governed by figures but by needs. in short, more public debt today for less ecological, social and financial debt tomorrow. that is the political project we are advocating.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). the government debt must not exceed, or be allowed to exceed, 60% of gdp and the budget deficit must be limited to 3%. thirty years after the adoption of these principles, we have to note that the average debt level in the eu is 85% and the average budget deficit is 3.6%. in the eurozone, these figures are even slightly higher. and in its latest forecast, the imf actually sees little improvement, even to 2028. the commission has never sanctioned a member state which has not complied with the rules, especially not in the case of larger member states. the financial markets did so by charging higher interest rates. the commission proposes new budgetary rules with a debt reduction programme tailored to the customer: each member state shall negotiate its debt restructuring. any reform or adjustment will ultimately stand or fall with the proverbial stick behind the door and its application. and in both cases the new commission proposals do not really provide for anything drastic. only in this way can greedy governments be kept in line. the budget deficits and debts must be reduced, if we are to win the fight against inflation, prevent further financial instability and ultimately preserve monetary union.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly a positive aspect that a proposal has finally been put forward to revise rules which, as everyone was aware ten years ago, were wrong rules for the management of public finances and investment within the european union. however, the commission proposal is based, in my view, on three erroneous assumptions which need to be corrected. the first is that it does not change the incorrect implementation of the rules of fiscal coordination within the european union, assuming that by now all the institutions, from the international monetary fund to the european central bank and the leading economists, have recognized that the great debt crisis of the eurozone was not a public debt crisis, but was a crisis of an imbalance of private debt, especially foreign debt. and in proof of this, we know that some of the countries that ended up on the programme, i am thinking of portugal, i am thinking of spain, i am thinking of ireland, had a public debt-to-gdp ratio in line with or even below the 60% provided for in the treaties. the second point is that it does not change the setting of these figures, the 60% and the 3%, which are figures that have no economic basis but are not reviewed. the third point, in my view, is a matter of democratic accountability: it is right to create a flexible path for each member state but the proposal gives too much discretion to the european commission, which is not an elected body and which, unfortunately, runs the risk of being able to use this power to shape the policies of a government and we know that these plans very often could go beyond the duration of a national government and therefore affect policies. the last point concerns investment. if we look at the data, unfortunately many countries in the european union will be forced into fiscal consolidation which will not allow us to make the investments we need for industrial transition.
mr president life has really overruled our rules of economic governance. at the same time, these new proposals must be tested to see whether they strike a balance between growth and responsible management, whether they simplify everything and whether they measure all member states equally. i have to say, i'm not comfortable with that. firstly, i believe in the restoration of budgetary balance, not in the indebtedness of countries and the union. by abolishing the debt ceiling, the commission will be able to judge individual member states on uncertain grounds. this undermines predictability and jeopardises the principle of equal treatment. secondly, it is not clear on what grounds the commission may propose to open an excessive deficit procedure, and there is a need for safeguards to ensure that the commission does not abuse its discretion. third, medium-term fiscal structural plans are good in terms of predictability, but in the current challenging environment, fiscal policy should have the flexibility to act as a buffer if needed in the event of disruption in other sectors of the economy. fourth, the overloading of the european semester with new areas leads to debate and a loss of focus. finally, the powers of the independent fiscal institutions are very different. i do not think that regulation at eu level is important. these five dilemmas need to be addressed, because only then will there be a balance between credible, predictable debt reduction and the fiscal flexibility needed to address the challenges.
mr president, dear colleagues, the debate that we are having today is a very fundamental debate for the european union. it is not a technical debate. debates about fiscal rules and about public budgets in europe are debates about and decisions about people’s money. our obligation is to manage people’s money with great care, to make sure that the next generations have more opportunities than the previous generations. this is why we need to get the objective of this fundamental debate right. the objective is not to make more depth in europe. the objective is to allow our economies to grow, to generate jobs and to generate wealth while we keep debt low in europe. because we have all seen that too high levels of debt are a risk. they are a vulnerability for our economies, particularly in times of crisis. this is why we as epp group say very clearly our economies need to grow faster than our debt grows, and in order to allow our economies to grow, reforms are important, competitiveness is important. and yes, while we recognise that different countries are in different situations and they have different paths towards debt sustainability, the overall objective needs to be for a debt to be low because only with low debt we can help in times of crisis. we could at the beginning of covid create the largest package of economic support because still we had space of manoeuvre in europe and we need to we need to manage this with great care. we as epp group ask for clear rules, predictability, no exemptions, agreements between the commission and member states and these be respected.
mr president, a good economic governance must have two characteristics – ambition and credibility – and credibility does not rhyme necessarily with the severity as many claim. credibility is measured by the economic, social and political sustainability of those rules. and if rules are not sustainable over time, governance is not credible. so the old governance was perhaps ambitious, but not particularly credible – it hasn’t proved that over time. the review launched by the commission shall set the right balance between ambition and credibility. the proposals are already moving in the right direction, but frankly, i believe that something more needs to be done to guarantee an adequate level of public investment, because these investments are key to growth in private investments as well, and these will ensure the digital, environmental and social transition challenges that we have ahead of us and this is what really we need to do to meet our citizens’ expectations. so, more investments today means more growth, more jobs for tomorrow and in the end, that’s what we are called to deliver. this is what citizens expect from us. this is how we can be credible.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i can only give a brief reflection on the reform of the stability and growth pact. in the reform the commission will have enormous powers in determining the economic policies of national governments, much more than in the previous pact, not even involving this parliament which, i remind you, is democratically elected by universal suffrage, as are the parliaments of each of the 27 countries of the union. it follows that in governments which are acceptable to the commission the new rules will be interpreted, while in others they will be applied rigidly. it will no longer be the citizens who decide by voting, but the unelected bureaucrats who have always shown themselves to be completely disconnected from reality, the same ones who made the incomprehensible decision not to take nextgenerationeu loans out of the calculation of the public debt. i firmly believe that sovereignty belongs to the people and that those who think of replacing them will fail miserably. then i heard earlier the statement that the euro has become like the lira; i would remind you that in 1991, italy was the fourth industrial power in the world in terms of the lira. the problem is that you have to be able to do things, not with a central bank that can't.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president, i have a question for you today. what are the macroeconomic science bases for the 60% of gdp debt to 3% of gdp deficit parameters which are still not being removed or changed? because, you see, i've been looking for this answer for years, and i can't find it, because the study by the two oxford professors who supported the 60% debt-to-gdp ceiling turned out to be completely wrong. for years, there has been talk of reforming the stability pact and there was an expectation that action would be taken on its main problem, namely the thresholds, especially after the pact had to be suspended in the covid-19 pandemic precisely because they were not sustainable thresholds. instead, we are faced with a system of unfounded and reinforced constraints that will force italy to cut between 8 and 15 billion euros a year in spending and to make reforms and investments decided in brussels, which leave out works crucial to the country's recovery and will erode current spending on welfare and maintenance of essential infrastructure. this is not the recipe for recovery, nor for the social stability of a europe which does not want to leave anyone behind.
madam president, mr chancellor scholz, as the five star movement we have a very clear idea of the europe of the future: greener, more united and above all free from war. on these issues your country is doing its homework, let us think of the minimum wage and the billion euro plan for renewables, but in brussels it has a very different attitude which prevents all other states from making the same progress as germany. i am thinking of reforming the stability pact. the position of your government, expressed repeatedly by your minister of finance, is a dive into the past that takes us back to the dark years of austerity, when decimals of gdp were more important than people's lives. without new resources, member states could never meet the european objectives of the new green deal and the sustainable transition. green investments should therefore be excluded from the new calculation of the pact. finally, a thought. we are all here today to talk about the future of europe, but there can be no future without a peaceful present. european diplomatic action is urgently needed to end the war in ukraine. peace is built through dialogue and not through arms, which, moreover, should not be financed by european funds.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the dramatic problem of the increase in violence against women must be a priority. while many groups talk about gender equality and fighting inequalities by putting forward vague proposals, we should all focus on concrete solutions that need to be given by the member states. the istanbul convention, which is intended to introduce gender ideology, is not a solution. what we need is something else, not lgbt ideology. i honestly don't think that a woman who's been raped, a girl who's been bullied or a girl who's been bullied online would be particularly interested in having non-stereotypical gender roles taught in schools. what is really needed is to find, for example, a ready response from the authorities: we know that many times there is no complaint because of the slowness of the responses and the concern about the repercussions between the moment of the fact and the adoption of the measures. i've heard too many times the phrase "okay, you tell me to report, but before decisions are made what do i do? do i have to barricade myself inside?" that is why i am proud of the government of my party, because in italy it has been the promoter of the red code and, a few days ago, of the so-called 'enhanced' code. that's what it takes, because we have to say it clearly: the acceptable number of women who are victims of violence, of any kind, must be zero. (the speaker agrees to answer a blue card question)
answer to a blue-card question. i hope i understood your french well because there was no translation here. however, schools should not introduce gender ideology, lgbt and so on, they should teach respect. a colleague here spoke well earlier, said that "respect for women is lacking especially in certain cultures" and it's not by introducing lgbt or gender ideology or discussing these things that we will help these women.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission has adopted the proposal to make 2023 the european year of skills, with the aim of improving the training of european citizens. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. the objective of improving and increasing skills must not remain on paper, however, but must be translated into adequate investment in the training of all european citizens, in particular young people with disabilities who have suffered the most from the negative effects of the pandemic, with increased discrimination and socioeconomic exclusion. the focus on training, which is the basis of europe's economic growth, must go well beyond 2023 and must concern everyone, no one excluded, because disability has no time limits. it is essential to give due value to those citizens who contribute with their thinking to the growth of european society, an example of democracy for all. the world of disability needs help, and this is the year.
in the name of the id group. madam president, the ambition and objectives of this directive were known from the outset. it is a pity that the result was not fully in line with expectations. we all want to protect the health of our citizens, considering the importance of water in our lives and its uses in agriculture and industry. the new directive will make data available to citizens. and this, along with updating definitions, will make monitoring more transparent and aware. at the same time, we must be realistic and set standards that are achievable, at sustainable costs: in my region, veneto, the monitoring authorities will have to monitor more than 900 water bodies and they tell us that they need timing and methods to meet the new standards. we cannot ignore this and we do not want to deceive our citizens. it is time to put a stop to these ideologies and give the venetians, italians and europeans back the protection they deserve.
on behalf of the ppe club. mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report. the european union has a valuable heritage of world-famous handicrafts and industrial products, but until now it has not had protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products such as natural stone, jewellery, textiles, even ties whose home is croatia, the country i come from and which you wear yourself, textiles, porcelain. it is time that producers of such products, small and medium-sized enterprises, benefit from protection of geographical indications, like food and wine producers. this will be achieved by defining craft and industrial products and by including products not covered by the scope of existing legislation. in croatia, which has a national protection system in this category, we have traditional handicraft products such as pasha lace, stiletto lace, st. mary's lace, crystal objects made in samobor, slavonic folk costumes. protection at european level means greater added value, better competitiveness and visibility on the market, and more investment will enable craftsmen to promote and protect their traditional knowledge and expertise. member states are required to design the level of fees and payment procedures in such a way that they do not create obstacles to registration for smes. the commission has also concluded that the geographical indication protected at eu level for non-agricultural products could lead to an overall increase in intra-eu trade of between 4,9% and 6,6%. finally, let's also value people with specific skills who, unfortunately, especially in this traditional sense, are slowly dying out.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, marion walsmann, for her work and, above all, for guiding the european parliament towards an outcome which i consider to be of great importance. i am convinced that the new regulation on the protection of geographical indications for handicrafts and industrial products will bring considerable benefits to both producers and consumers. it will also enable artisans to certify the link between quality and geographical origin: this will not only ensure that italian excellences are properly protected, but will also make it easier for consumers to recognise the authenticity of the products. it will have a positive economic impact on small and medium-sized enterprises, enhancing their competitiveness. although the text negotiated with the council does not provide the best possible clarity on the definition of the production stages and the relationship between geographical indication and trademark, i am particularly pleased that some of my amendments concerning protection against unfair commercial practices and the fight against counterfeit products, including online, have been included. valuing and defending our local traditions, our creativity, our know-how, while preserving our identity, will enable us to overcome the challenges of an increasingly global world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen the positive results achieved by designations of origin for agri-food products. after years we are finally about to adopt this regulation on the protected geographical indication for all handicraft and industrial products. these brands will have to serve as a driving force for the development of the territories, even the most peripheral ones, many of which risk being marginalized in global trade, despite being rich in tradition, culture and history. at the heart of these unique products are the many artisans and small and mediumsized enterprises that have to compete in the globalised market. working with trade associations and working with colleagues, it was possible to produce a text which responds to the call of producers, on the one hand, to protect them from imitation and unfair competition and, on the other, to support them and promote our excellence. in the world economy, europe must act in a united way to defend the unique and high-quality products on which we must increasingly rely for our future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in italy, where there are almost one and a half million craft enterprises, this legislation has been long awaited. i therefore thank the rapporteur and her colleagues. we are talking about products with unique characteristics, present in every italian region, of artifacts with strong territorial roots that will now finally have protection. we have fought hard to introduce the requirement that the main stages of production take place at the location of the geographical area of reference. it was essential for us to pay more attention to strengthening the requirement of product-territory linkage. the different sensitivities of the various european countries to the importance of the craft sector have not allowed this to be achieved. nevertheless, it is a step forward that will benefit all italian craftsmanship, because in the homologation brought by globalization, the mastery expressed by ancient crafts is to be safeguarded as well as works of art.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when our local administrators try to apply in the territories the insane and ideological measures decided upon in the palaces of brussels, the results are inevitably disastrous and the people are always the ones who pay the price. in piedmont, for example, because of the brussels 'euro-crazy', 140 000 workers and families who own relatively new cars - we are talking, for example, about cars that are only eight years old, these are euro 5 diesels registered until 2015 - risked losing their right to mobility and, therefore, their sacred right to work overnight. fortunately, there is a centre-right government in italy which, thanks to strong pressure from the league, has prevented this european absurdity by postponing by decree the blocking of euro 5 diesel cars in piedmont and throughout the entire paduan basin, thus allowing the engine of the italian economy to continue running. this government, light years away from the living room environmentalism, will always defend the pockets of italians, because environmental sustainability cannot exist without that... (the president takes the floor from the speaker).
mr president, the impact of the ecb's sharp rise in interest rates, with or without further increases, will continue to be felt. the people are paying the consequences of these decisions with their tongues in their hands, as in portugal, because governments are subservient to these measures. more and more families in portugal are having difficulty paying their rent, while the large economic groups, the beneficiaries of the ecb's policies to combat inflation, are accumulating millions and millions of profits, since the banks make 11 million a day in my country. that's enough! we need to reverse these increases. in the immediate future, it should be the banks and not households that bear the impact of the increases already decided. the fight against the effects of inflation involves raising wages and pensions, combating speculation, regulating the prices of essential goods and services, taxing the profits of large economic groups in order to promote development and social progress and boosting national production. the european union institutions are not consulted on these measures. for our part, here we are in that fight.
that concludes this item.
the next meeting will be held tomorrow, tuesday, september 12, 2023, at 8:30 a.m. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the minutes of this sitting will be submitted to parliament for approval tomorrow at the beginning of the afternoon session.
dear colleagues, please take your seats. we have with us this afternoon goodwill ambassador for the united nations refugee agency cate blanchett. welcome to the european parliament. (applause) cate blanchett has been a dedicated activist on humanitarian issues for years. we know her for her activism as well as for her work in film. we are delighted that you are able to be here with us today at a time when events around the world threaten more lives and force more people to flee. almost eight years ago, you stated that ‘there has never been a more crucial time to stand with refugees and show solidarity.’ sadly, that statement could well be repeated today. just last month at the european parliament we marked 10 years since the lampedusa shipwreck that claimed more than 360 lives. that tragedy of 2013 was far from being an isolated catastrophe. the cemetery of the mediterranean has claimed the lives of thousands more women, children and men since. i am proud that this institution has led the debate on a european level to find a way forward that tackles this challenge of our generation, and i am hopeful that we will agree on a new asylum and migration pact for europe by the end of this legislature. this parliament’s commitment to these challenges remains unwavering: for all those who lost their lives, for all the exploited victims of traffickers, for all those families never to be reunited. we remember them. and, ms blanchett, we are grateful to you for using your voice to draw greater attention to the plight of so many people across the world. the floor is yours. (applause)
unhcr goodwill ambassador. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, thank you for the opportunity of addressing the european parliament at such a critical moment. it is a great, though somewhat daunting, privilege. i am not syrian, i am not ukrainian, i am not yemeni, i am not afghani. i am not from south sudan. i am not from israel or palestine. i am not a politician. i am not even a pundit. but i am a witness. and having witnessed the human cost of war, violence and persecution visiting refugees across the globe, i cannot look away. what sits at the core of my dual roles as actor and goodwill ambassador for unhcr is the human condition, the human story. over the past few weeks, we have all, in horror, been watching the continuing violence in israel and gaza. the conflict has claimed – and is still claiming – thousands of innocent lives. earlier this week, unhcr’s high commissioner called – together with several other humanitarian organisations – for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire and the immediate release of all civilians held hostage. (applause)alas, while these events are understandably dominating the news, this is far from the only violence afflicting our world, and these are not the only innocent lives being lost. war rages on in ukraine. it rages in sudan, where it has already forced millions of people to flee their homes since erupting earlier this year. indeed, in recent times, the headlines have brought us news of violence in ethiopia, or afghanistan, in the sahel, and many others. and in every single case, innocent people suffer and innocent people are forced to run for their lives. globally, forced displacement has now passed the grim milestone of 114 million people. many of those caught up in these maelstroms have made unbelievably dangerous journeys in search of a place of safety. on arrival, too many of them have found themselves unwanted, rejected, despised, even scapegoated. 114 million people! it’s a number so huge that it is difficult to grasp – but grasp it we must, as we acknowledge the figures and the facts. because the fact is: of those 114 million, 62.5 million are displaced internally within their own countries. of the 36.4 million who are forced to leave their countries, 69% remain in neighbouring countries – places that i have had the great privilege of visiting, such as bangladesh, south sudan, jordan, niger and lebanon. why do people stay so close to these places? because just as i, just as we, would if we were in their shoes, they want to return home – to their people, to their land, to their families. i urge each and every one of you here today to stand firm in challenging the dangerous myth, peddled far too widely and stoking far too much fear and hostility, that each and every refugee is headed here, to europe. it has been tempting for some in europe to depict the challenge of refugees as a new one. ‘the 1951 refugee convention’, they say, ‘is from another time. it was not designed to meet the challenge of so many people on the move, especially in a time of mass forced displacement or when new forms of large-scale displacement linked to climate change or natural disasters appear’. the claim is that it places too many demands on our resources – on our schools, our hospitals, our job markets – or that new arrivals, with their different languages and cultures, will somehow undermine the values of those who host them. apart from the monumental compassion deficit in this argument, it also demonstrates a dangerous disregard for history. madam president, for centuries, europe, like much of the world, has been crisscrossed by people who have fled home in search of protection from war, pogroms, persecution. over the centuries many were refused asylum or, if they were admitted, they were admitted under sufferance and regarded with suspicion. but many were welcomed – not just sheltered, but actively encouraged to contribute to the social, cultural and economic life of the lands they now call home. free to practise their religion; provided with livestock, tools and seeds; granted citizenship; and gradually, beneficially, absorbed into the societies who embraced them. this mixed picture is recognisable in europe today. in some cases, we immediately see that fleeing home, leaving everything behind and having to run for one’s life is unavoidable, and we instinctively feel the need and obligation to help. in others – perhaps because we know little of the violence or human rights abuses that take place far from here – we are suspicious. and so, vulnerable people are caught between a place from which they were forced to flee through no fault of their own and a place that refuses to let them in. thus marooned, they drown, or freeze, or are trapped under rubble, or starve, or are enslaved, trafficked, enlisted, exploited: devastating outcomes that we would not tolerate for ourselves. at the end of the second world war, as humankind confronted the devastation wreaked by one of the worst conflicts of all time, the international community made its most determined effort to enshrine some fundamental principles and ideals as a response to forced displacement and the generational suffering that it causes – principles and ideals to help hold the world, with all its difference, together. the right to seek asylum and the provision of asylum without discrimination were central to the universal declaration of human rights, which marks its 75th anniversary this year. this right underpins the 1951 refugee convention, which makes it an obligation for states to protect persons unable or unwilling to return to their country of origin, owing to a well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, political opinion or membership of a particular social group. the 1951 convention is a landmark human rights instrument that is not only still relevant but foundational to our common humanity. part of the modern legal framework for human rights that evolved after the war, it sought to formalise a minimum set of rights for persons fleeing persecution, including, crucially, the right not to be returned to the country of original persecution if unsafe to do so. although it was initially developed in a mostly european context, the standards and principles outlined and defined in the convention are universal, and it is one of the most widely ratified treaties globally. it is what helps keep the instruments and practice of government humane. adherence to the convention has saved millions of lives. it also provides a set of shared principles for states to better manage asylum and to cooperate amongst themselves. this framework also, of course, provides a legal, fair and dignified means to assess who does not qualify for asylum. no one is arguing that everyone who comes can have a right to remain. i wonder if those who now question the convention, or who see walls and barbed-wire fences as a solution to the world’s 36.4 million refugees, have ever met or talked to a refugee, or really forced themselves to confront the human cost of harmful policies, such as externalisation. (applause) as an australian, i can tell you that we learnt the hard way. the devastating physical and mental torment that refugees experienced whilst being corralled offshore. the psychological damage to those guarding them. the billions of dollars of taxpayers’ money wasted on a now discredited and largely abandoned approach. and, may i say, the resultant shame and regret that many of my fellow australians feel now surrounding these ineffective and inhumane policies. madam president, in my capacity as goodwill ambassador for unhcr, i have had the enormous privilege of travelling to meet refugees in countries across the world. and there are so many humbling things i have witnessed and learnt from the people who have generously shared their stories with me. but here are just three. first, the refugees that i have met are in a state of shock. shock at what they have seen and experienced, shock at finding themselves uprooted, shock at losing everything and having to start again from scratch. but this is not just about the most vulnerable – the women threatened not only by bombs and bullets but by unimaginable, intolerable sexual abuse, and the children who have lost their futures as well as their homes. it is also about the young men who are so often demonised in the media but who are visibly traumatised by the physical trauma and humiliation that they have endured. i recently met a young man – let’s call him ibrahim – in niger. he was a refugee from darfur, forced to flee the impossible choice of conscription by the militia or certain death. he found his way to libya. there he was enslaved, kept in a cage, he was beaten and repeatedly raped. this gentle young man – the same age as my eldest son – alone and deeply traumatised. he had tried to take a boat to europe, not once but seven times. he told me he took his chances because drowning at sea was a better option than his catastrophic experiences in africa. in the words of the poet warshan shire: ‘no one leaves home unless home is the mouth of a shark. you have to understand that no one puts their children in a boat unless the water is safer than the land’. (applause) i think also of a syrian refugee woman i met in lebanon – let’s call her miriam. a highly educated woman – she was an architect – and when she told me she was planning to take her three children on a boat to europe, i was taken aback. had she not heard about the tragic drownings that had happened only weeks before? ‘yes’, she replied calmly, but she said, ‘i have no choice. here, my children cannot get the education they need. here, i cannot make a living’. now, if i was that mother, what would i do? what would you do? if you can imagine – just for a moment – your own sons and daughters, your own children and grandchildren, in the same situation, then perhaps you can understand that walls, barbed wire, pushbacks are no answer. desperate and vulnerable people like ibrahim and miriam will keep trying to escape that mouth of the shark. ten years ago, we were all appalled by the loss of hundreds of lives when an overcrowded boat sank near the island of lampedusa. and in the decade since, many more have perished in the same way. and in 10 years’ time, people will still be drowning on our shores – unless something changes. complex situations require complex solutions. they require dialogue, they require collaboration – not soundbites or slogans. finding sustainable solutions in countries of origin, transit and destination is the only way. in this room there are people of vastly different backgrounds, different cultures, different politics, different views, but we all share a common humanity and we need to come together to put people, to put our humanity, back at the centre and the heart of asylum. (applause) the second thing i have learned is that refugees have not fled home to take anyone’s job or undermine anyone’s culture. even though they have fled terrible violence, they would much prefer to stay as close to home as possible. think back to that fact: 69% of refugees stay in a country neighbouring their own. i have witnessed remarkable generosity on the part of some of the neighbouring countries who have kept their borders open to refugees. when in jordan this year, i visited alaa, a syrian refugee i had first met in 2016. she was benefiting from a dafi scholarship, which enabled her to access tertiary education. eight months pregnant then, she had journeyed an hour and half each way, each day – such was her determination to complete her studies and qualify. and seven years since we met, here she was, teaching in a primary school in zaatari refugee camp, helping to keep hope alive for the next generation of refugee children, who may, one day, return home to syria. in niger, i met women from host and refugee communities working together to grow crops and re-green the environment, to breed goats, to make soap. together they were feeding their families, together they were building livelihoods, and building community and a peaceful coexistence. their children were going to school together. not one of these people was contemplating stealing someone’s livelihood, subverting anyone’s values, imposing on anyone’s hospitality or demanding charity. ibrahim, miriam, alaa and the women i met in niger wanted only opportunity, kindness, compassion and peace. the third lesson i’d like to share has been a particularly tough one to take. i have seen the impact of humanitarian funding cuts on the ground – the terrible choices humanitarians have to make about who gets a blanket, or access to water, or whose food ration is cut when supplies run out. i’d like here to echo unhcr’s high commissioner’s words. he is a lifelong humanitarian, who recently implored the international community not to forget the millions of desperate, vulnerable people who may not be in the headlines right now, but who must not be abandoned. he said: ‘humanitarians are being asked to pick up the pieces and to help more people in more places’. he said: ‘they are being asked to do more with less. humanitarian work needs resources. unhcr alone urgently needs usd 600 million before the end of the year’. and being short of resources, the high commissioner wondered for how much longer humanitarians can continue. ‘humanitarians are tough’, he said, ‘but humanitarians are near breaking point. and what will you be left with when they are forced to go?’ in south sudan this july, i saw that devastating impact of insufficient funding as refugees and returnees poured out of sudan: a lack of shelter, a lack of food or protection or support for vulnerable women, standing in mud, barely enough water. i ask you: how can people stay? madam president, i am not denying that this is complex. but this is the european union, and addressing the challenges of forced displacement and mixed movements requires unity, international cooperation, resources, and patient, compassionate work to address the multiple and overlapping reasons that people move. so my plea to parliament is also threefold. first, please remember the forces that cause people like ibrahim and miriam to move, and ensure eu policy focuses on their protection and not on fortifying borders. while the numbers of people forced to flee are increasing, globally funding is decreasing. the eu can provide the model for enlightened leadership, investing, for example, in opportunities and solutions closest to the countries of departure before people embark on dangerous journeys. a clear message out of the most recent un general assembly is: if we do not include refugees in the sustainable development goals, the sdgs themselves will fail. second, as the representatives of the people of europe, please remind your constituents that low and middle-income countries host the vast majority – nearly 90% – of all forcibly displaced people. take this message to them. challenge false claims that will ultimately only seed divisions in our own communities. scapegoating so often leads to violence and unrest. and where coordinated responses to mixed movements into europe are required, explain the importance of safe and legal pathways, and invest in more efficient systems to quickly, humanely and fairly determine who legitimately has a right to stay and who does not. be robust in defence of the truth. third, continue to build on the eu’s proud tradition of humanitarian support, whilst also ensuring development funding goes to host communities and countries and refugees. agencies like unhcr are often the last resort for desperate people. with the number of forcibly displaced people at an all-time high, flexible humanitarian funding has never been more urgent. invest in education and livelihoods to ensure families have opportunities where they are so they don’t need to move. no one will benefit from a generation of alienated and excluded young people. no one. madam president, on behalf of unhcr, may i thank the european parliament for its progressive role in the european debate on asylum and protection. may i thank parliament, the eu and those governments, organisations and individual citizens who have shown such compassionate leadership in the response to those forced to flee the war in ukraine. this solidarity should not be limited to one group, but afforded to all. may i thank the eu for its long-standing financial support for refugees and their hosts globally, and urge continued and increased support. the world is watching. may the spirit of hospitality and compassion and the championing of human rights that european modelled after 1945, and at the birth of the refugee convention, continue to provide an exemplar in the years to come. (applause)
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday, 19 october 2023.
dear colleagues, every year for the past 15 years, the european parliament and the international charlemagne prize foundation in aachen have jointly awarded the european charlemagne youth prize to youth-led projects supporting democracy and promoting cooperation in europe. this year, the first prize went to ailem from belgium – a language app tailored for refugees and developed in consultation with them. two projects took joint second place: the european correspondent from the netherlands and the mobile climate museum from lithuania. the european correspondent brings together young european journalists in support of european journalism, while the mobile climate museum encourages young people to adopt a more climate-friendly lifestyle. it is a pleasure to have the representatives of these initiatives with us in this chamber. congratulations and welcome to the european parliament. (applause)
the minutes and texts adopted of the sitting of 19 october are available. are there any comments? that does not seem to be the case, therefore the minutes are approved.
following the election of bartosz arłukowicz, krzysztof hetman and zbigniew kuźmiuk to the polish sejm, parliament takes note of the vacancy of their seats from 19 october 2023, in accordance with the rules of procedure. following the election of christophe hansen to the chamber of deputies in luxembourg, parliament takes note of the vacancy of his seat from 24 october 2023, in accordance with the rules of procedure. and following the election of michal šimečka to the slovak national council, parliament takes note of the vacancy of his seat from 25 october 2023. the competent authorities of luxembourg have notified me of the election of martine kemp to the european parliament replacing christophe hansen with effect from 24 october 2023. the competent authorities of slovakia have notified me of the election of jozef mihál to the european parliament replacing michal šimečka with effect from 26 october 2023. i wish to welcome our new colleagues and recall that they take their seats in parliament and on its bodies in full enjoyment of their rights pending the verification of their credentials. welcome.
on the proposal of the committee on legal affairs, parliament verifies the credentials of anja haga with effect from 5 september 2023, of ana collado jiménez and laura ballarín cereza with effect from 6 september 2023, and of laurence sailliet and lydie massard with effect from 24 september 2023.
i have received the resignation of monika beňová from the office of quaestor. parliament takes note of the vacancy of the office from 18 october 2023. therefore, we will proceed, tomorrow at 11.00, with the election of a new quaestor, to replace ms beňová. i remind you that the deadline for submitting nominations is today at 19.00. the nominations should be handed in to the office of the deputy secretary-general on the seventh floor of the spaak building and include the candidate’s acceptance.
the epp, renew europe and id groups have notified me of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees and delegations. these decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and take effect on the date of this announcement.
several committees have decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1). the reports, which constitute the mandates for the negotiations, are available on the plenary webpage, and their titles will be published in the minutes of the sitting. pursuant to rule 71(2), members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold may request in writing by tomorrow 9 november at midnight that the decisions be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in parliament is made before the deadline, the committees may start the negotiations.
we now come to the order of business. the final draft agenda as adopted by the conference of presidents on 19 october pursuant to rule 157 has been distributed. i would like to inform the house that i have received three requests for points of order. i will first give the floor to susanna ceccardi.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, my tuscany, the region from which i come, has been plagued by bad weather in recent weeks. there were eight dead! tuscany, which many of you know, with its artistic beauties, with its great people, is now on its knees; families have flooded their homes, many businesses have lost everything, the damage amounts to more than 300 million euros. that is why i ask the european commission to activate the solidarity fund, as has often been done in the past in cases like this. help our tuscany to rise, the tuscany that, with its beauty and art, has illuminated all of europe and the world. help tuscany regain its light.
mrs president, ladies and gentlemen, as mentioned, tuscany was hit by these exceptional rains in the night between thursday 2 and friday 3 november, which caused catastrophic flooding, eight people lost their lives and thousands were forced to leave their homes. the damage is very large, as the colleague pointed out, with very high estimates; i went to prato, one of the most affected provinces, on friday to bring solidarity and closeness to the communities. the scenario was dramatic but i also witnessed the pride and strength of a population already committed to recovery, with a commendable effort by local authorities, civil protection and thousands of volunteers already working to clear the streets of mud. i want to share with you today the call i have received from these citizens not to be left alone by europe in the difficult task ahead. the union has instruments and we will activate them, but this fourth natural disaster calls once again on us to reaffirm the need to secure areas at risk of a water disaster and to strengthen action to combat and adapt to the risks of climate change. i conclude by expressing our closeness to the families affected and i ask the presidency to observe a minute of silence in memory of the victims.
we want to express our full solidarity, europe is with you, you will never be alone.
madam president, do you know that more than 4 000 of the 10 000 persons killed by israel in gaza are children? i call the european parliament for a minute of silence. what is doing the european parliament and the european union to avoid the death of these civilians? palestinian children sent yesterday a message: they want to live, they want peace, they want food, water, medicines and education – not bombs. (the speaker spoke a non-official language)stop the war! ceasefire!
we will debate this very soon. next, with the agreement of the political groups, i wish to put to the house the following proposals for changes to the final draft agenda for today: a statement by the president on the urgent need for immediate measures against the rise of antisemitism is added as the first point in the afternoon; a commission statement on eu enlargement policy 2023 is added after the debate on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 26-27 october 2023; and the report by mr fernandes and ms hayer on the system of own resources of the european union is moved to tomorrow, thursday, as the second item in the morning. as a consequence, the sitting is extended to 22.00. on thursday, tomorrow, the debate on the council and commission statements on the european economic security strategy is postponed to the next part-session. the reports by mr garcía del blanco on the request for the defence of the privileges and immunities of stefano maullu, and by mr vázquez lázara on the requests for the waiver of the immunity of patryk jaki, beata kempa, beata mazurek and tomasz piotr poręba are added to the votes. the two reports by ms adamowicz on road vehicles and mr winkler on the eu-china agreement are taken out of the votes. if there are no objections these changes are approved and we will move to the changes requested by the political groups. we have a list of requests on the same subject, also as just brought up by ms miranda, that will be taken together. we start first with the left group, which has requested that a statement by the vice president / high representative on ‘the humanitarian catastrophe in gaza and the need for an immediate ceasefire’ be added in a joint debate with the european council and commission statements on ‘the conclusions of the european council meeting of 26-27 october 2023’. this debate would be wound up with a resolution which would then be voted on in november ii. i give the floor to manon aubry to move the request before moving to the other requests.
thank you very much. i am guided on this, because of the consultations with all the political groups, by rule 183(4), which says that where compromise amendments are put to the vote, they shall be given priority in voting. so let’s take a look at whether there is a compromise that emerges, and then we vote on that. we next move to an alternative proposal by the green group. i give the floor to mr solé.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, one month ago, the brutal hamas attacks against innocent civilians, most of them israeli citizens, unleashed a brutal war that has already claimed over 10 000 palestinian deaths, 4 000 of them children, a huge humanitarian crisis, destruction of hospitals and other civilian infrastructures, and a vast amount of suffering that adds hatred where there was already too much of it. international humanitarian law is at stake. the un secretary-general has been under attack for insisting on upholding this law and calling for a humanitarian ceasefire. meanwhile, the bulk of hostages keep being retained by hamas rockets being fired against israel, and a long and terrible battle in gaza city is to be expected. this war needs to stop. it is time for a ceasefire. we need to work for peace, no matter how difficult, under such circumstances, it might be. this is why our group proposes a debate with the following title: ‘the attacks against israel, the dramatic situation in gaza and the urgent need for a ceasefire’.
thank you very much, mr solé. i have now received a request from the s&d group, and please tell me, ms gualmini, who will present it, whether it has evolved into a compromise proposal supported by a majority of the political groups.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, dear colleagues, the various proposals that have been made by the different political groups mirror the gravity of the situation in the middle east and this parliament’s strong engagement to contribute to putting an end to violence and to the suffering of innocent civilians in the region. and in light of our responsibility as the european union’s parliament, it is of crucial importance that our house stands united in this commitment. so, in this spirit, i move a joint proposal on behalf of the epp, s&d and renew groups to add a debate under the title ‘the humanitarian crisis in gaza and the need for a humanitarian pause’ on the plenary agenda, which could take place this afternoon jointly with our debate on the outcome of the european council meeting without a resolution. so i hope that a large majority of this parliament of this house will support this compromise.
ok, so we put the initial request of the greens group to a vote by roll call. we vote first on the debate. we’ll have two separate votes. the vote is whether we have a debate or not, as proposed by ms toussaint. (parliament rejected the request)now we ask whether the other groups want to maintain their proposals. mr torvalds, do you want to maintain your proposal?
on behalf of the renew group. – i would like to maintain the proposal.
so we vote on the renew group’s proposal. title first. (parliament rejected the request)we vote next on the left group’s proposal. we will not retake the vote. i will talk slowly! we vote now on the alternative proposal from the left group as presented by anja hazekamp. yes, mr chahim, tell me.
the result was clear.
we will vote now on ms hazekamp’s proposal on the debate. (parliament rejected the proposal)therefore the agenda remains unchanged. we have two final proposals for tomorrow, thursday. the ecr group has requested that council and commission statements on ‘the killing of tamaz ginturi, a georgian citizen, by russia’s occupying forces in georgia’ be added in the morning. the statements would be wound up with a resolution to be voted at the next part-session. i give the floor to anna fotyga to move the request on behalf of the ecr.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, on 6 november, yesterday, two georgian citizens, tamaz ginturi and levan dotiashvili decided to go to the lomisi church located close to the tskhinvali occupation line. they wanted also to visit the nearby church cemetery. in the effect of this endeavour, russian occupying forces killed one of them, tamaz ginturi, on georgian territory, while the other man was taken hostage to an occupying detention place in the tskhinvali area. i would like to request a debate with resolution on this.
ms fotyga, to be clear, you want it for this plenary, right?
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, because of the large number of points added, we can agree to postpone it to the november session.
ok we will plan it for november ii. the s&d group has requested for thursday that a commission statement on ‘the continuing threat to the rule of law, the independence of justice and the non-fulfilment of conditionality for eu funding in hungary’ be added as the second item in the morning. ms gualmini, will you present this?
madam president, dear colleagues, given the statements made yesterday by commissioner hahn in the budg and cont committees, on behalf of the s&d group i would like to withdraw our request for a debate on ‘the continuing threat to the rule of law, the independence of justice and the non-fulfilment of conditionality for eu funding in hungary’, but, however, given the recent media reports, we would like to stress the need to remain vigilant and keep up the pressure on the european commission not to release any funds for hungary, and we will therefore ask for this debate again for the november ii plenary session.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment. and the hatred of the jews, and the hatred of the hebrew nation of israel, and the desire to destroy it from the face of the earth. this is the truth that is being revealed by the military and terrorist use of the gaza underground by hamas, which, in order to kill the jew, is willing to sacrifice the lives of so many palestinian civilians by occupying hospitals. because hamas has only one cult, the cult of hatred of the jews, and in fact the bombing of israel continues unceasingly. and among the many attacks that are taking place in europe, there are numerous anti-semitic attacks in all european countries, including the desecration of the stumbling-stones of rome, where the world's oldest jewish community lives. those stumbling blocks remind italian jews of being beaten, kidnapped from their homes and deported to concentration camps. they were kidnapped from their homes, as we saw on october 7 in israel, and all this is unacceptable. this parliament, on our proposal, the league, has called anti-semitism a threat to our democracies and pledges the european union to a future free of anti-semitism worldwide. today we hosted the israeli foreign minister, elie cohen; we must stand united to ensure that he too, and all jews, will see the words of simon veil come true, "as long as we do not forget". we are here to stand united for freedom and peace, against hatred and violence, for religious freedom for all.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the joint debate on the european council and commission statements on:– conclusions of the european council meeting of 26-27 october 2023 (2023/2888(rsp)), and– humanitarian crisis in gaza and the need for a humanitarian pause (2023/2958(rsp)).
president of the european council. – mr president, madam president of the commission, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, nothing. nothing can justify the terror and cruelty that hamas unleashed against the people of israel on 7 october. over 1 400 innocent men, women and children slaughtered and over 240 people taken hostage. hamas’s brutality does not stop there. in gaza, they are using innocent civilians, their own people, as human shields. one thing is absolutely certain: we can never let such a terrorist attack happen again. countering hamas will take more than military might. it will require a strong coalition of regional and global actors banding together with one common cause: to fight terrorism. hamas must not have any future in governing gaza. ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, we support israel’s right to defend itself, and it must be done in line with international humanitarian law. the eu stands unequivocally for the protection of civilian life. each civilian life matters – always and everywhere. a total siege is not in line with international law. we call for humanitarian pauses in corridors in gaza because humanitarian aid must get to those in need urgently. the more the situation deteriorates, the harder it will be to work towards a lasting peace in the future. with each passing hour, more lives are broken, more families torn apart. we must work and we are working to help alleviate the suffering. and i especially commend france, greece, cyprus and some others for their concrete actions like a maritime hospital and a maritime corridor. at the meeting in paris tomorrow, we will discuss and decide more support. finally, ladies and gentlemen, we must not lose sight of the bigger geopolitical picture. the eu can help the middle east while also continuing its strong support for ukraine for as long as it takes. both regions need our continuous involvement, and that’s why i propose that the eu purchase grains from ukraine and ship them to those in need in the middle east. this is a strong gesture of solidarity and efficiency. ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, israelis and palestinians both have the right to a peaceful and stable tomorrow. so we must have a vision for what comes next; a vision for what tomorrow could look like. i am absolutely convinced with all of you that we must win back the prospect of lasting peace in the region. let’s be honest, for years, huge amounts and efforts have been pumped into security, but not nearly enough has been invested in peace and even less into justice and reconciliation. this approach did not work. peace. peace means security. but security does not always mean peace. one without the other only feeds more instability for both israelis and palestinians alike. the eu, we have a responsibility to help these nations move forward and to put into action a plan: a plan for security, a plan for prosperity in the region. and this plan must be based on the two-state solution: a safe and secure israel and an independent palestinian state. the palestinians have the right to a stable political future with a government that has the interests of its people at heart and a vision for a sustainable economic future. the palestinian authority will be key to any future political settlement. and we, the eu, are the main donor to the palestinian authority, and we must continue our western support, because supporting a credible and legitimate palestinian authority is an investment in peace and security in the region. ladies and gentlemen, we have a role to play in building peace in the region through our diplomacy, through our convening power, our common foreign policy instruments, and our role as a trusted global partner. the eu was born from the ashes of war, a peace project based on reconciliation. and in these dark days of violence and conflicts, it’s never too early to talk about peace, to be obsessed by peace. high representative borrell launched the ‘peace day effort’ initiative in september in the margins of the un general assembly, together with egypt, jordan, saudi arabia and the league of arab states, and with some 50 countries from around the world. this initiative must be expanded getting our member states and other partners like the us involved. we will work with all those who believe in peace and want to work together to fight the poison of extremism, and our efforts will be linked with the normalisation efforts already underway. because the eu is by nature a global actor, we will take the lead with others in organising, as soon as possible, a peace and normalisation conference inspired by previous peace initiatives and the abraham accords. lasting peace in the region will require peace between israelis and palestinians and between israel and all its neighbours. ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, at this european council meeting we also discussed the consequences of this conflict for our societies within the european union. we are seeing a spike in antisemitism. we condemn this in the strongest possible terms because they go against everything we stand for in europe. discrimination and intolerance have no place in our family of nations, and we will always stand against racism, antisemitism, islamophobia and all forms of discrimination. this is why we have tasked our ministers to coordinate and take all appropriate action and measures in this respect. mesdames et messieurs, chers collègues, ce conseil européen a aussi été l’occasion de se concentrer sur notre soutien résolu à l’ukraine. et d’un mot, le message principal, c’est: soutien, soutien résolu, soutien sans faille et soutien aussi longtemps que nécessaire. l’ukraine est au cœur de nos priorités, c’est d’ailleurs le message clair que nous avons adressé au président zelensky, qui nous a rejoints de manière virtuelle lors de notre réunion. l’ukraine réalise des progrès significatifs sur la voie de l’adhésion à l’union européenne. le peuple ukrainien doit être certain qu’il dispose d’un avenir sûr et qui doit être prospère, garanti, au sein de l’union européenne. la commission européenne vient de soumettre un rapport sur l’élargissement et il appartiendra au conseil européen en décembre de décider quelles seront les prochaines étapes, aussi bien pour l’ukraine que pour les autres candidats à l’adhésion. une chose est claire: nous souhaitons continuer à soutenir l’ukraine. nous avons déjà fourni près de 83 milliards d’euros d’aide à l’ukraine. nous continuerons à soutenir l’ukraine sur le plan financier, sur le plan militaire, aussi bien sur le plan européen que sur le plan bilatéral. mesdames et messieurs, cette réunion a aussi été l’occasion de discuter la révision de notre budget européen. il est certain, nous le mesurons tous, que lorsque nous avons adopté ce budget, en 2020, le monde était très différent. ces débats étaient nécessaires, ces débats sont utiles. l’ukraine, vous l’avez compris, est une priorité absolue pour ce budget et nous aurons encore dans les prochains jours de plus amples discussions sur les autres éléments de priorités: la migration, la sécurité et la défense ou encore, par exemple, les questions de solidarité en cas de catastrophes naturelles. nous voulons toutes et tous que notre union soit forte, prospère et capable d’atteindre nos objectifs communs dans des temps tellement troublés, dans des temps tellement complexes. la présidence espagnole sera chargée de faire avancer les travaux sur la base des orientations du conseil européen, et le moment venu, le conseil européen aura à délibérer sur ce sujet. mesdames et messieurs, l’économie, la compétitivité, renforcer nos bases technologiques a aussi été l’objet de nos travaux avec paschal donohoe et christine lagarde qui nous ont rejoints pour le sommet de la zone euro. nous sommes tous déterminés à travailler sérieusement pour renforcer la base économique à court terme, à moyen terme, à long terme de l’union européenne. nous savons, par exemple, qu’il s’agit de remédier aux défis liés aux pénuries de main-d’œuvre. il s’agit de mettre en place des réglementations qui permettent à nos économies de se développer et d’être davantage compétitives sur la scène globale. nous devons aussi garantir notre sécurité énergétique. nous avons progressé, c’est vrai, depuis cette invasion de la russie contre l’ukraine, mais nous devons être modestes et nous devons reconnaître que nous sommes toujours confrontés aujourd’hui à des prix de l’énergie qui sont jusqu’à quatre fois plus élevés que ceux de nos concurrents. cela pose évidemment un défi très grand pour nos entreprises. troisième point: les travailleurs, l’emploi, le marché du travail. le taux de chômage n’a jamais été aussi bas, mais trop de jeunes encore n’ont pas accès au marché du travail. on doit remédier et garantir qu’il y ait davantage de possibilités d’accès à des emplois de qualité. de la même manière, on doit créer les conditions pour une plus grande participation des femmes au marché du travail. enfin, il y a un quatrième point que nous avons mentionné, c’est l’investissement. si nous voulons suivre le rythme, nous devons augmenter nos investissements dans les technologies stratégiques, dans les technologies d’avenir, mobiliser davantage le secteur privé pour atteindre nos objectifs. vous le voyez, nous sommes confrontés à des défis pressants. nous devons les relever avec sang-froid et avec détermination. nous sommes prêts à travailler avec vous pour atteindre ces objectifs.
president of the commission. – madam president, vice-president marc angel, president charles michel, honourable members, the pain of innocent civilians in the middle east shakes the conscience of the world. the situation on the ground is evolving fast. so let me focus on the work we have done since the october european council to fulfil this mandate. the essential starting point continues to be what happened on 7 october. there is no justification for the horror that hamas unleashed against innocent men, women, children, babies. israel has the right to defend itself, in line with international law and international humanitarian law. supporting israel is essential, but so is aiding and protecting civilians in gaza. the death toll and the suffering of palestinian civilians is tragic. there are images we cannot unsee. this shakes us to the core – all of us. so, while israel has the right to fight hamas, it is also essential that it strives to avoid civilian casualties and to be as targeted as possible. because every human life matters, be it israeli or palestinian. let me update you on our humanitarian work. two weeks ago, we had already tripled our aid to gaza. this week, i have announced that we are further increasing humanitarian aid by another eur 25 million, bringing thus the total support to eur 100 million. and we are working hard for this aid to reach palestinians. convoys are now entering gaza through the rafah border crossing, but the volume remains too small to match the massive humanitarian needs. this is why we are working on a maritime corridor from cyprus. it would guarantee a sustained, regulated and robust flow of aid. i very much welcome the excellent cooperation with president nikos christodoulides and his government. this can make the difference between life and death for thousands of palestinians. and we will continue to help evacuate eu citizens and injured palestinians. honourable members, as we deal with the urgency of today, we must also make the effort to think about tomorrow. how to break the current spiral of violence. and how hope can be restored for israelis and palestinians. they need a political perspective. and the perspective is the two-state solution. of course, in the end, israelis and palestinians will have to agree on a way forward. but we, as part of the international effort, we must contribute, and of course in close cooperation with our friends and our partners. i believe five principles for ‘the day after’ could help build some common ground. first, gaza can be no safe haven for terrorists, and different ideas are being discussed on how this can be ensured. second, the terrorist organisation hamas cannot control or govern gaza. there should be only one palestinian authority and one palestinian state. third, no long-term israeli security presence in gaza, because gaza is an essential part of any future palestinian state, and the territory of gaza cannot be reduced or amputated in any way. fourth, no forced displacement of palestinians from gaza. this would be a humanitarian tragedy and also a recipe for more regional instability. and finally, no sustained blockade of gaza. any future palestinian state must be viable, also from an economic point of view. and europe stands ready to work with all people and countries in this region to make this happen. i know that all of this may look overly ambitious as the war rages on, but i think we must spare no effort to keep the hope alive, to find a lasting solution based on two states living side by side in peace and security. it is again time for an international effort towards peace in the middle east, and we europeans must play our role. honourable members, the european council also focused on ukraine. i was in kyiv a few days ago. in recent weeks, i had also the chance to visit all the western balkan countries as well as moldova. and however different these countries are, they all share one feeling. they feel they belong to the european union. there is a new level of vision and ambition in aspiring eu members. they are ready to work even harder to join our union. and here in the union too, there is a new sense of urgency to unite our european family. today, it is clear that the stability of every country in our continent affects, of course, also our own stability. their security is our security. and if our union isn’t fast enough in bringing candidate countries closer, others will fill the vacuum. but it is in our geopolitical interest to complete our union, to make it stronger than ever. and it is not only about geopolitics, it is, of course, also about economics. the completion of our union will make the new member states’ economies grow. it will make eu companies grow. it will also make our single market grow, making europe an even more attractive and stronger partner on the global stage. prosperity is not only shared by enlargement, it is multiplied. enlargement is in our common interest. so we must seize this moment of opportunity to advance as much as possible towards the completion of our union. today we presented the enlargement report and let me briefly summarise some results. first, on ukraine, we are recommending to the council to open accession negotiations. the progress that ukraine has made, as it fights an existential war, is remarkable and impressive ˗ with very clear achievements on all seven steps we have identified. well over 90% of those steps have been completed. the remaining reforms are on their way. so, by march 2024, we will report back to the council on these ongoing reforms in order to have everything ready to finalise the negotiating framework. very clear: the future of ukraine is in our european union and this future has just begun. we also see moldova with its bold efforts to come closer to us. and this has to be seen against the backdrop of a war in neighbouring ukraine and of massive russian interference. therefore, the report highlights the significant reforms moldova has undertaken. we also recommend to open accession negotiations with moldova, and here too some remaining measures are to be finished and the commission will report to council on this by march. and on this basis the council could then finalise the negotiating framework. for bosnia and herzegovina, the commission recognises a number of positive political and legal steps. for example, the swift entry into office of a new council of ministers in january of 2023. you can see that this has brought positive results. there is progress in the fight against organised crime, in the fight against money laundering and terrorism, for example. but we also note with concern the various unconstitutional laws adopted by the representatives of the republika srpska entity. against this backdrop, the commission recommends to the council the opening of accession negotiations once the necessary degree of compliance with the membership criteria is achieved. and hereto, the commission will report to the council on progress by march 2024. finally, georgia. we see the european aspiration of the overwhelming majority of its citizens. while these aspirations need to be better mirrored by the authorities, and while further progress is needed on the 12 priorities identified last year, the commission also acknowledges a number of positive steps and we should encourage georgia to move on. so, the commission recommends here to grant candidate status to georgia on the understanding that the government takes important reforms. honourable members, today’s package is not only a snapshot of the situation on the ground. it can and it must be a driver of change. since the very beginning of the mandate, i have deeply believed that we needed to reboot the enlargement process, in particular with the western balkans. so, roadblocks and vetoes were hampering the progress towards the european union. instead, we should look at every country, how it is able to advance on the association path based on its own merits. every new achievement should lead them closer to us. and with our new growth plan, that we also presented today, we are setting out, very clearly, ‘more for more’. you open your borders in your common regional market, we open our single market in seven very important sectors. you do the reforms for a level playing field for your companies to access the single market, we come with investment to help you to implement these reforms. so, honourable members, it is every country’s responsibility to turn the page and make the strategic choice for europe. and, of course, in parallel, we, the european union, also need to lay the necessary internal groundwork on reforms. in other words, let’s get to work. long live europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, president von der leyen, president michel, welcome back to the european parliament. firstly, let me say very clearly, we welcome the european council’s unequivocal condemnation of terrorism. the brutal and indiscriminate terrorist attacks by hamas against the innocent people of israel deserve our full attention and our strongest condemnation. more than this, our focus also lies with the innocent people – innocent victims that are enduring immense suffering. for example, the hostages held by hamas. and let me say very clearly, these have to be released immediately. and under no circumstances should innocent civilians be used as human shields or as trading materials by a terrorist organisation. more than this, we as the european union have a role to contribute to stabilising the situation in the region in our neighbourhood and we of course have also a role to support civilians, to protect civilians. this is why we, as a european parliament, have expressed support for the continuation of humanitarian aid, for the assessment of the needs, for increasing the humanitarian aid where it is needed, because it is also in our european interest that six million palestinian people in the wider region, in jordan, in lebanon are being helped and can be taken care of as close as possible to their homes in in the region. but, president von der leyen, let us work together to make sure that these amounts of money really reach the people in need and in no way are used for acts of extremism or acts of violence. we will have to do more for protecting people, for protecting citizens also here in europe, for security. we will have to do more. we will have to do it quicker, faster, and we will have to do it for a longer period of time. and this is why we also need the means – the financial tools, the resources – to keep people in europe safe and to support our immediate neighbourhood. the european commission has rightly identified priorities to revise our multiannual budget of the european union. in 2020 – president michel, you were absolutely right when you said it – we decided the multiannual financial framework, many things happened since. we financed many things which we did not anticipate. now we need to revise our financial framework. we as a parliament have a position. we know it’s not easy, but if 705 members could agree, i believe that 27 member states can agree as well to continue providing support for ukraine, for migration, strengthening our borders and making our economy stronger and competitive. we, the european parliament, stay ready to work with you on this.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, minutes before the start of this plenary session we have learned of the death of ivan illarramendi, a spanish compatriot killed by hamas on 7 october. i want to transfer all our affection and recognition to your family here and tell them that you can be sure that we will work tirelessly until justice is done. we are witnessing a human catastrophe in the middle east without any palliative measures. our support for israel in the savage terrorist attacks by hamas that killed more than 1,400 israelis and our solidarity with all their families does not force us to close our eyes to the unjustifiable collective punishment imposed by the israeli government on the more than two million palestinians living in gaza. how can we be impatient with palestinians who do not receive water, electricity, food or medicine? how can we be indifferent to the few aid trucks that have entered gaza from egypt? how can we ignore the fact that hospitals cannot use the necessary equipment to keep sick and newborn babies alive? gentlemen, bombing hospitals, attacking refugee camps, destroying schools and forcing the population to drink from saltwater wells is not legitimate defense. the united nations has said it: it's war crimes. and war has its rules. but netanyahu's government acts as if hamas were the entire palestinian people and maintains a siege that does not distinguish between guilty and innocent. israel, of course, has the right to defend itself against hamas. but mr. netanyahu has no right to dehumanize a people. the gazans have the same rights and freedoms as the rest of the world's citizens and their lives must be protected, because every democracy must respect the values that found it, the same values that draw the line between barbarism and civilization. and in the face of the human disaster in gaza, the european union cannot just show concern for what is happening as the israeli government defies even the united nations and its secretary-general, antónio guterres. the european union has a moral obligation to act without delay to end the deaths of innocent people in gaza, to free israeli hostages taken hostage by hamas, to allow humanitarian aid to flow and to prevent an uncontrolled escalation in the region and to lead an international peace conference that will provide a just solution to a conflict that can no longer last. peace and coexistence are always built by negotiation and dialogue, never by violence and revenge. the israeli government must return to the two-state solution and negotiate with the palestinians who have indeed renounced violence. because hamas is not palestine and does not represent all palestinians. the european union is playing its credibility in the middle east as a peace exporting power. history is written with courage, leadership and solidarity. the opportunity for peace is now and our union must take a step forward. if the european union is unable to call with one voice for an end to violence and the resumption of the peace process, does it mean that it is giving in to the spiral of bigotry that leads to catastrophe? let us not resign ourselves to bigotry, let us demonstrate our commitment to the best values, let us make our ideal of international justice prevail and call with one voice for an end to violence and the right of israel and palestine to exist on the same land.
the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment. young jewish children murdered by hamas. palestinian children who were being roamed after the second bombing. a real humanitarian catastrophe is looming with hundreds of thousands without access to water, food, health care and security. this abomination must stop now. enough is enough. three weeks ago we passed a strong resolution here, almost unanimously. - what about today? today we need to reinforce that message, reinforce that message. the humanitarian pause must come now and immediately. the hostages must be released now and immediately. we must continue to believe in and work towards a lasting solution to the conflict that has been going on for far too long. and that is why we must return to the agreement between rabin and arafat and work, as you said, mrs von der leyen, on the two-state solution, however impossible it may seem today. and that, of course, means stopping the terrorist organization hamas and at the same time reducing settlements. the vicious cycle of hate and violence must be broken. we have succeeded here in europe. our european union is built on the ruins of division, hatred and violence. we must now, together with the international community, succeed in doing the same thing in the middle east. we must be united and united, united, and united in our geopolitical position. this is our now or never moment. europe has to play its part. it's our moral duty. never again.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, yesterday, one month ago, atrocious acts of terror were committed in israel. with a brutal killing of civilians, young people, children – many of them raped, tortured, mutilated – hamas has shown its true face: a human-hating terror organisation that only wants death and darkness, that has nothing to offer but the hatred for israel and ultimately wants only that – the destruction of israel. make no mistake, hamas are brutal oppressors – most of all to the palestinians themselves. they do not represent a struggle for freedom or the legitimate claim of palestinians to their own state. yes, israel has the right to protect its citizens and to defend itself. and yes, israel must do so in compliance with international law and international humanitarian law. now, four weeks later, a brutal war is ongoing, and we see the humanitarian situation in gaza badly deteriorating: civilians are dying, children are dying, people are in need of everything – food, water, medical supplies. the eu must do everything in its power to provide help to these civilians. the israeli government has a responsibility to avoid civilian deaths whenever possible. we must see restraint and precision in the israeli government’s response to terror, both to reach the hostages and to avoid the high numbers of civilian casualties we are seeing right now. palestinian civilians must not be collectively punished for the crimes of hamas. we must fight for humanitarian corridors, the immediate and unconditional release of hostages and the investigation of war crimes, and for the escalation of violence to be stopped. and for that, yes, we have to work for a ceasefire, for humanitarian aid to be increased and then to reach the people in gaza. this conflict, colleagues, calls on all of us to rise to the occasion as europe, as actors of peace. let us continue to fight for peace, for humanity, for a lasting two-state solution, where israelis and palestinians both can live in peace and freedom and in security. colleagues, let us not give in to hopelessness.
on behalf of the ecr group. the last european council was held the day after hamas attacked the people of israel. a fierce, cowardly, inhuman violence. since that day, the world has entered a new spiral of fear and disorder. and for some, that's good news. for china, for islamic regimes, for putin who relies on the distraction of democratic nations, for his senseless war against the ukrainian people. in order to be politically strong, the european union must be economically strong and energy independent. it is therefore a mistake to burden its economic output with too much ideological burden. it is not only the socialist group which is responsible for the socialist situation but also the socialist group which is responsible for the socialist situation. in this regard, i have appreciated the passage on mitigating the effects of global warming. it is on securing territories in the face of extreme weather events that we must concentrate our efforts, instead of focusing solely on our co2 emissions, which are now residual to the rest of the planet. finally, i do not think it is a coincidence that only today, when there is a majority of right-wing governments in the european council, is the issue of immigration being dealt with in good faith. a year ago it would have been unthinkable to read among the council's conclusions the need to protect the external borders, to fight traffickers, to conclude cooperation agreements with third countries, as in the case of tunisia. unfortunately, there is a part of the policy that continues to boycott any way to combat illegal immigration. they're the ones in here washing their hands for a hollywood actress who comes to teach us humanity lessons before they go back to highwell house, her five million-euro victorian mansion in east sussex, they're the ones who are too snobby to get their hands dirty with reality. thankfully democracy is not a movie and it is coming to justice for your hypocrisy.
mrs president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the agenda of the last european council, but on none of these points the european leaders have reached agreement and have deferred the decisions to the next council in december. what's that supposed to mean? that the asylum and migration pact is vetoed by hungary and the sovereigns; the reform of the stability pact has a wall on the part of the falcons of austerity. and there is too much shyness about foreign policy, because there is no courage to say "no to war, yes to diplomatic solutions" in ukraine and the middle east. on all these fronts europe is wavering, because national sovereignty is being challenged. the citizens, on the other hand, expect much more from us, they expect a stronger, more united and more courageous europe. the european union is a europe that promotes investment and supports the most deprived citizens. the citizens want a europe of peace, because without peace there is no prosperity, without peace there is no future and in this, like europe, we are guilty of delay.
mr president, commissioner, it is very right to decarbonise, the path is the right one, we must try to produce, cultivate, feed ourselves by polluting less. i think there is a big gap in this argument, however, the absence of energy diplomacy, because europe must not become the world's traffic-restricted zone. traffic-restricted areas are those areas of our cities where you walk and go shopping, but nobody works. i think the tangible risk is this, trying to avoid the competitiveness problems that our companies are suffering from every day. then there's the big issue of addiction. many colleagues have rightly reasoned about the successes of the liberation from russian gas imports, but no one realizes that we are falling into the dead end of dependence on chinese raw materials, chains and technology. we have faced several legislative overlays: the directive on energy performance in buildings, which in italy citizens have come to know as the greenhouse directive, has a very unrealistic roadmap. without forgetting the issue of the introduction of the electric car, no one has explained to us how we will generate all the electricity needed to ensure electric mobility. so there's not just electrification, there's reasoning to be made, for example, about nuclear. we must stop talking about the dependency on fossil fuels, because gas will be a necessary backup technology for the next few years and, above all, i believe the priority is to prevent europe from becoming the world's leading oil producer.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a crucial choice today, that of between common sense and ideology. the euro 7 proposal, as presented by the european commission, risks stifling our automotive sector. we strongly support the compromise reached in the envi committee to ensure a cleaner environment, listening to the needs of industry and thus safeguarding employment. the council of the union, with the support of italy, has reached an agreement to strengthen this compromise. we shall therefore remain firm in rejecting any amendment which would make this text more punitive.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in belgium, left-wing associations and parties are pushing for a law prohibiting criticism of islam, a law that would abolish freedom of expression and turn us directly into the hands of those who want to turn europe into a branch of tehran. in the ghettoes of our cities, in the shadow of the fundamentalist-funded mosques, more than a generation of immigrants are growing up who, at best, do not want to integrate and, at worst, kill us at the cry of "allahu akbar". the left, which accuses us of being nazis and racists because we denounce the risks of indiscriminate reception, must today apologize to italian and european citizens deprived of the right to live in peace and security in their own homes. and so, dear fellow progressives who call hamas terrorists "partisans", at least avoid speaking of islamophobia at a time when europe is re-affirming the nightmare of anti-semitism, but the real one.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used to finance the implementation of the budget. in veneto and friuli venezia giulia, as in tuscany, damage amounting to hundreds of millions of euros has been recorded, both in the mountains, with crushes and debris, and along the coastlines, where the restoration of beaches and tourism is now necessary. rapid and effective action by europe through the solidarity fund is needed to support regional authorities and, in particular, small local businesses, who are always at the forefront of preventing, addressing and responding to these natural disasters. the protection of the territory is essential for the development and protection of our communities. as our small towns always do, europe must do its part.
on behalf of the id group. the commissioner, the spanish government's representative, and the honourable members, are of course important and i absolutely agree with the commissioner's remarks, but we must also, at european level, become aware of our political and macroeconomic objectives. we must also be aware that the commission is not going to be able to do this without the help of the european parliament. so we have to make policies that protect our steel production and our defence industry to attract investment and attention to protect value chains that, as the very serious geopolitical crisis we are experiencing globally, is teaching us, are increasingly fragile. of course, other issues, such as cyberterrorism, must also be seen as key players. consider another aspect: we have introduced a taxation of emissions to european companies at the legislative level with the ets and other instruments, such as cbam at the border, which will potentially create a risk of competitiveness for our companies, because our international partners have told us that these instruments will not be adopted. so i think in the next few years we're going to have to change the kind of approach: the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to take measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used to finance the economic and social crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard from the commissioner a long list of projects shared with the biden administration by the european union, some of which are not shared as much by the european and american peoples, such as unlimited military and financial support to the ukrainian government, without any effort to reach a negotiation, or the pursuit of climate objectives in a way and on time that has already proven unsustainable for our industrial system, from an energy and commercial point of view. what emerges from the results of this summit is the constant alignment of european policies with the objectives set by the american government, without any debate or care for the many points of conflict between the interests of the union and those of the united states. the detachment and alienation of eu leadership from the demands of european citizens is increasing gradually and we will see the results soon in the polls.
the commission has already proposed amendments to the programme, and it is now proposing amendments and corrections. in particular, the importance of smooth procedures, greater control and transparency in the use of funds is underlined. but if this can be understood at the start, there are some aspects that convince us a little less as a group. firstly, the call for urgently increasing funding for the european child guarantee with a dedicated budget of eur 20 billion for the period 21-27. before talking about this increase, the league proposes to have an impact assessment, to understand well where and how it works and how many states where irregularities occur and which. the commission is also proposing to set up a european child authority to monitor the guarantee and to promote cooperation between the commission and the member states. we can only express our objection at the request of another european authority: instead of creating another community superstructure, we are looking for and devoting these resources directly to children and the child guarantee. we are making management and control within existing structures more readily available. one last thought: the child guarantee is now a reality in almost all the member states of the european union, because, and let me say it finally, national plans have been approved, but they must now be put into practice.
the commission has already adopted a resolution on the protection of vulnerable children. this is a very important issue for us and i would like to draw the attention of europe to the case of 207 italian families who have been waiting for years to adopt belarusian children. these are orphans who live in institutions but are accommodated by italian families in so-called rehabilitation camps after the chernobyl disaster. over the years, indissoluble bonds have been built that have prompted many families to start adoption practices. but because of a bureaucratic problem, this process has stopped since 2020. without a child welfare letter, these children cannot embrace their new family. i hope that the european commission will act to unlock the situation: the reason of the state cannot erase the happiness of children.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in line with what is happening globally, the mountainous region in north-eastern italy has suffered the loss of 4 million cubic metres of wood and another 2 million have been cut down by the bush. the veneto region is the first italian region for furniture workers: the number of enterprises employed in the community is almost 8 400, with more than 46 000 employees. the sector is being affected not only by the loss of raw materials but also by the invasion of chinese wood semi-finished products, which enter the european market without respecting criteria and rules, creating unfair competition with our producers. the european union must intervene to prevent the introduction of such products and to support the competitiveness of our companies. europe values the european product and recognizes the value of craftsmanship and our small and large enterprise.
mrs president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the ideology, this is what moved the majority of this house when it approved drastic reductions in the use of phytosanitary products, which are even more restrictive than those proposed by the commission. the rapporteur rejoiced and i wonder if she will do the same when she realizes that she has put the whole agricultural chain at risk: or maybe that's what the goal was! i would like to ask you to make this clear, because these strict rules are only environmental and do not take into account the needs of production, not to mention the serious risks to food security to which all europe is exposed. we are faced with rules designed to destroy european agriculture, because, dear colleagues, our farmers do not need free advice on preventive measures but they need to be able to use the tools they need to work, especially in the absence of valid alternatives.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the bas eickhout report on behalf of the committee on science, public health and food safety on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) 2019/1242 as regards the strengthening of co2 emission standards for new heavy duty vehicles and the integration of reporting obligations and repealing regulation (eu) 2018/956 (com(2023) 0088 - c9-0025/2023 - 2023/0042(cod)) (a9-0313/2023).
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you, colleagues. that was an interesting debate on pesticides. we now shift to heavy duty vehicles, trucks and buses. and also there we have some delegate issues on the table where hopefully we can stick to the facts. that would also be very nice in the debate we are going to have. first of all, on co2 standards for trucks and buses, i think it is very important to realise that trucks are responsible for 25% of greenhouse gas emissions from road transport, so this shows how big the impact of our trucks are. this is, of course, a very crucial sector that we need to decarbonise towards 2050 in order to achieve our climate neutrality as the european union. for that, we have put co2 standards on the table before and we do see improvements, but we need to accelerate. we need to accelerate to make sure that we can be reaching carbon neutrality by 2050. to be very honest, i was critical about the commission’s proposal and, to be very honest, i am still doubtful that with these numbers we will get to climate neutrality by 2050 in the trucks, which is one of the still easier sectors to abate than when we are talking about shipping aviation etc. but we have accepted these targets and we will push them forward in order to make sure that this decarbonisation will happen, and probably we could see some acceleration, even, of decarbonisation going beyond the targets that we have been putting on the table. so what is now on the table is a reduction of 45% by 2030, 70% by 2035 and 90% by 2040 – that is also very important, we are talking about 90% by 2040. because in a lot of your contributions, we will probably start talking about carbon neutral fuels again, e-fuels etc. – they can all be part of the mix. when we were having a discussion about 100% reduction target for the cars, of course, there was a debate on it, but in this case we have a 90% reduction target. this allows for manufacturers to choose different technologies to deliver, and even if they cannot be 100% zero, they can still comply because the target is 90% by 2040. so that is very important to realise that, to be very honest, the e-fuel debate should not take place in this file. i know some are so attached to it that they want to even have that debate in this file, and i always wonder that those people talking about technology neutrality can only talk about e-fuels, so much for their technology neutrality. what we have done further in our report is expanded the scope also to vocational vehicles, but with an exception for fire trucks and other vehicles that are used for civil protection. so we mainly talking about garbage trucks, which, of course, can certainly decarbonise. we also have a target of zero emissions for city buses for 2030 there, with a very clear exemption until 2035 for those local governments who already invested in alternatives, because we do appreciate those activities and, of course, we do not want to cut that off by 2030. so i think all in all, a very balanced report with ambition that is very close to the commission, with consideration of an expanding of the scope, also with good definitions of carbon neutrality and carbon neutral fuels. and for those who are saying that we still need something on the carbon correction factor because of carbon neutral fuels, read the letters being sent to us by daimler, man, volvo, scania, who are all saying: do not do this, you are putting the burden on us, you are defacto slowing down the decarbonisation of this sector. and that is what you are trying to do. if you want to discuss e-fuels, please do so, but not on this file. do not pollute that debate and let us make sure that we have a very clear report as a parliament.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, things actually do get interesting when a climate debate becomes concrete, and trucks and buses and the need to make them zero emission, that is actually very tangible for our citizens. of course, at the same time, we are discussing this challenge in a climate emergency and that asks for responsibility in all of our choices. climate change is unfortunately happening much faster than we feared, and it is causing damage all across europe, and also all across all the corners of the world. and we have a new sad record, with 2023 as the warmest year on record as was the same, by the way, for 2022. of course, we discuss climate files like this one with the binding goals of our european climate law in mind. we all know the targets: we must cut greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030, and we need to reach climate neutrality by 2050. and i’m going to say it again, it is this parliament that has championed these targets for all the right reasons. to reach those targets, and the rapporteur just said it, all sectors must do their share and transport is not and cannot be an exception. in fact, transport requires special attention because it is responsible for almost one quarter of european co2 emissions. and interestingly enough, for a long time it was the only sector where emissions were rising. so we must move to zero emission transport on our highways and in our cities. there simply is no other way forward. but i would also like to highlight the other side of the coin: the opportunity that the shift to zero emission transport actually brings. european truck makers and bus makers can be global leaders if we set the right framework for them to invest in what i think are the technologies of the future. in a competition for electric mobility with china, for example, stagnation is not and cannot be the answer – the ramping up of key technologies in europe is. so ramping up the supply of european electric trucks and buses cuts our dependence on fossil fuels from volatile countries. climate policy is, you could say, security policy. and zero emission mobility can be affordable mobility; if more zero emission trucks and bus models come to the market, then simply the prices will go down. in order to reap these opportunities, we must give european industry the one thing that it wants from us as politicians, and that is clarity. because that means investment certainty and it means stability. if companies then embark on the clean mobility journey, they need a dot on the horizon to the journey towards. i am glad that the ep report confirms the ambition of the commission on many issues, but i would like to address one specific issue that has become part of this debate. i very much understand the desire – and it is a desire across this house – to find a way that a move to zero emission transport. we do it in a way that is workable for our companies and our citizens. that is also what i want to do, because we have to take our people and our businesses along, and i do want to help in finding the way. and yet, in all openness, i do not think that to include a so-called carbon correction factor in our rules is the right way forward. then the idea would be to give truck makers a compliance bonus for making new trucks if member states ensure the supply of, for example, e-fuels. again, of course, i fully see the importance of innovative fuels, but we need them for the existing fleet before customers can switch to new zero-emission vehicles under this law. and mostly we need them for hard-to-abate sectors like maritime and aviation. that is where we need these type of fuels. i doubt that a carbon correction factor for new trucks gets us broad support for zero-emission transport. that was said before – maybe with even more passion than i am doing it – that virtually all truck makers, and all truck makers i have been talking, to say that they do not favour this approach. they would face penalties if member states fall behind in existing renewable energy targets on fuels, and there is no incentive to overachieve on those targets. and generally we should be careful not to create artificial markets for new fuels in road transport. ladies and gentlemen, our proposal, especially on the 2040 target, is enough for all likely fuel developments. the commission can reflect on market developments in a spirit of technological openness. we can do this in the review of this law in 2027, and i hope that members of parliament can take this into account in their votes later today. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the shift to zero emission trucks goes at the heart of the industrial transformation that we have ahead of us. zero-emission buses change the daily lives of citizens taking public transport in cities, but, of course, also in the countryside. it generates passions. that is normal. so let us have a proper debate on all the various aspects going forward. and finally, let me once again thank the rapporteur, his team, for all his good and hard work.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of certain products. buses and trucks are currently responsible for 6% of eu emissions, and we all depend on them in our daily lives for commuting to work or for full shelves in supermarkets. just give up, that's not possible. and it is only together that we can reduce the emissions of the industry. all options must be on the table. but instead of allowing this, the greens and the social democrats prefer to promote their prohibitionist ideology. because once again, carbon neutral fuels are not to play a role, once again, there are to be artificial restrictions on electricity and hydrogen. no more openness to all technologies, i'd rather ban them, bas eickhout. and you can do better than that. you've already shown that in the car. that's your policy. but with us the many jobs, the small and medium-sized truck and trailer manufacturers seem to be completely indifferent to the greens and the social democrats manufacturers who are deeply rooted in their regions and offer well-paid jobs. now unrealistic targets and, frankly, ruinous penalties are threatened. this is a policy against our industry and also against our smes, and in the end, a policy against people. the vote today is the last chance in this house to leave the wrong path of technological hostility. and bas eickhout said, we shouldn't talk about e-fuels. so, my dear bas eickhout, there are three options for the evp today: we have a broad definition of co2-neutral fuels, we have a carbon correction factor with a lid, and we only have an application for e-fuels. and i can say for the ep that if we finally move this parliament in the right direction today and one of these proposals is approved, then the ep is on board and then we can correct the mistakes we made in the past. we're ready as epp, i hope the greens are ready too.
for the s&d group. mr president! my fellow workers! we're in a hurry. i'm in a really big hurry. the temperature of the atmosphere is rising and europe's role as a world leader in green technology is at risk. we have been in the global forefront for a long time when it comes to climate and industrial policy. if we get through today's vote well, we have a chance to continue. continue to show the way to reduce our co2 emissions and continue to show the way for an innovative industry that can develop the green buses and trucks of the future. today, buses and trucks emit more than 6% of the eu's total greenhouse gas emissions, and that will increase if we do nothing. that is why it is essential that our industry is able to develop the world's best zero-emission buses and trucks. and with the outcome of the negotiations on heavy vehicles, we are ensuring just that. we set ambitious requirements for industry and ensure high reduction targets. by 2030, all new city buses must be zero-emission buses, and by 2040, new trucks sold must emit 90% less co2 overall. these are crucial signals. long-term signals we're sending today. these are clear signals to our industry so they can plan ahead. these are clear signals that will help ensure their global leadership, because in the future electric buses and zero-emission trucks will be the cheapest and, last but not least, the greenest. the question is not whether, but when? and i think we're in a hurry! what happened to our solar cell industry should not happen to our trucking industry. we cannot allow this to happen and therefore we will need legislation that imposes requirements on the market. we cannot leave it to the market itself. we are ensuring a clear path for the green transition of trucks and buses and we are showing a clear path for europe to remain in the green shirt. i would like to thank mr bas eickhout and the other negotiators very much and i hope that we will have a strong result voted on later today.
on behalf of the renew group. i would like to remind you that we are only days away from cop 28 and that this text is absolutely essential for trucks and buses, since we will decarbonise all road transport in europe after we have done so for cars and vans. it is therefore a structural text for the next 20 to 30 years. our responsibility is to be both ambitious and pragmatic. ambitious means that we must not give up on the objectives and that is why the renew group will support the commission's initial proposal. we are even prepared to go a little further, a little faster, to get the most out of the decarbonisation of road transport. we also want 100 percent of the new buses that will be sold in cities to be zero emissions by 2030. but we are pragmatic about school buses, for example, where technology is less mature and so we give more time to school buses to adapt. and we're making sure that cities and local communities that have invested in biomethane buses can see their investments protected in the long run. and then there's the issue of road transport with regard to the specific technology of e-fuels. the vast majority of the renew group will oppose the amendments which seek to disrupt this text. as the commissioner, who is part of the epp group, and as all truck manufacturers recall, we do not need e-fuels in this text because we need e-fuels elsewhere to decarbonise the air and maritime sectors.
for the verts/ale group. mr speaker, i want to speak to you. members of the commission. the climate crisis is urgent. in some areas of the transition, progress is being made, but emissions from heavy transport are still increasing. despite the paris agreement, despite a european climate law, emissions from heavy transport are still increasing. it is therefore extremely urgent that we take ambitious decisions to ensure that heavy-duty truck manufacturers must reduce their emissions and focus on electrification. because that's the future of heavy transportation. but i am concerned that the european right is trying to undermine these decisions and reduce ambitions. that would be very unfortunate, because we already have enough rolling trucks on our streets that are emitting carbon dioxide and we have to reduce them extremely quickly.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, we are all in agreement with our good friend bas eickhout – but he's not listening – regarding the need to reduce co2 emissions on the heavy vehicles. but our approach is a pragmatic one, meaning that before we have very ambitious goals and then we do not reach them, we prefer to have very pragmatic goals that we make sure that all the member states will reach. there are three points in which the ecr group will be fighting on. number one is the carbon correction factor, which we think is necessary to handle the wide variety of heavy vehicles. number two is the urban buses. we ran a study in italy and in most of the largest cities, we reach the goal that is proposed in the text, but most of the smaller cities will not make it because of a whole bunch of different problems, especially on the recharging stations and so on. and last, neutral fuels. we know germany – and we hear peter liese – they are very strong on synthetic fuels. italy is very strong on biomasses. we do believe that we need to accept all the different type of less impacting fuels.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the green transition must not be an economically and socially unsustainable process. after cars, you've decided to impose electricity on heavy vehicles: you decided to sink companies and entire industries. - what's the point? well, not for the weather. you said no to biofuels, to renewable fuels. we proposed them. it is therefore clear that behind environmental policies, industrial policies are hidden. yeah, because then only china will benefit. there will be consequences for companies and entire industries. the transport sector, which is already in difficulty due to the economic crisis and fuel costs, will be on its knees. there was no impact analysis. there are no valid alternatives to such long stretches. and then, for the municipalities, you've decided to impose 100 percent of electricity on public transport by 2030. so i ask myself, especially the small municipalities, where do you think they can get the money? an electric bus costs on average five times as much. you are putting the future of businesses, workers and communities at risk for an ideology.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the use of certain substances in the community. this is important for all of europe, both from an environmental and economic point of view. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the first is that it is a regulation and not a directive, so it leaves no room for nations to decide whether they want to go one way rather than another. and here i'm referring, of course, but you all know that italy and belgium are strong on recycling and differentiated collection, other countries are strong on incinerators and so on. in addition, impact assessments have been made but i think they are a little scarce, in the sense that they have not looked closely at the social, economic and in some cases even environmental aspects. so i think it's important to bring them back to this. the minimum recycled content and this is something i say to the very powerful commissioner is a problem because there are already estimates that there will be a 120-180% increase in the cost of recycled material in europe, according to various estimates from the financial times and others. finally, the problem here is that, between the increases in transport costs and today we voted on the issue of co2 emissions from heavy goods vehicles and the increase in packaging costs, we are charging the european consumer and the european citizen with a 10% increase in supermarkets. so i think we are really crazy, because the european citizen does not understand this.
on behalf of the id group. the text on packaging is a real madness. well, that's probably why the speaker didn't show up today, i understand. put entire countries in crisis, italy for example, a model nation for the circular economy. we are the first in europe and therefore the first in the world to recycle: we have achieved the european objectives seven years earlier than italy. but also throw away years of investment: from 2001 to 2021, eur 7 billion was invested to develop differentiated collection and eur 4 billion to cover the costs of starting recycling and material recovery. but there's even money in the pnrr for recycling. eliminate plastic packaging, increasing waste, compromising food safety and even protecting products in transport. but then we talk about food waste, right? you're a little schizophrenic because, on the one hand, you say that to combat waste, you need to pack smaller and smaller packages and then, on the other hand, you say that for salad it takes at least a pound to pack! there's no impact analysis. studies show that reuse has a greater environmental impact, because of course packaging must be transported back and forth and, in order to be reused, it must be washed, so more water, more energy. i mean, you want to send businesses out and workers home: you'll damage strategic sectors of the economic fabric. i 'm just saying one thing . stop, please, stop!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this regulation on packaging and packaging waste is part of the european green deal policies, which aim at the elimination of fossil fuels, the reduction of anthropogenic carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere, the change in climate, and the objectives to be achieved by the commission at all costs, including the destruction of the european industrial system which has ensured economic growth and social progress for over a century. even the most virtuous countries in recycling waste, like italy, will be forced to change their production model in a few years to eliminate plastic, the new enemy to be broken down. but the proposal to reuse the packaging and containers of all consumer products, including food, is economically unsustainable and harmful to the environment, given the enormous use of energy, water and detergents that would result. we must stop this ideological drift once and for all, before it stops europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when i hear that the european commission has ambitious programmes, i am afraid because i would prefer projects to be a little less ambitious and a little more realistic, a little more balanced. i was mayor before i was a european parliament member and, together with my colleagues, i spent years explaining to the citizens how to do well in the differentiated collection. now that so many countries have reached their recycling targets, let's say: - no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no we are changing everything, we are changing the habits of all european citizens, but above all we are creating a problem for production. and here we are talking about agriculture, the food production chain, the food chain. whoever, through ignorance or disbelief, agrees to this new eco-crazy will strike a deadly blow to european economies, such as the italian economy, which generates 600 billion euros a year, with 1.3 million businesses and 3.6 million employees. let's think about it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, more than 700 firms are at risk, with devastating consequences for thousands of jobs and a negative impact on more than 30% of italy's gdp: these are just some of the effects of this absurd regulation on italy, which has achieved a recycling rate of 73.3%, nine years ahead of the eu target. but the commitment of italian companies would not be enough to deal with the follies contained in this proposal to replace recycling with reuse. all this without taking into account the increase in water, energy use, prices for businesses and consumers, and possible damage to the transport, storage and safety of certain products, especially food. no more red fruit trays, salad boxes, protective films, flower pots, courtesy sets in hotels, packaging for take-out. not to mention the impact on wines and beverages. will the benefits really be proportional to the commitment? no, this is the wrong way, and with tomorrow's vote we have a duty to strike a balance between the need to reduce packaging and waste and the needs of producers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for the reform of the treaties is the result of the work of a small group of members of the majority, who have been meeting behind closed doors for over a year, with my group, identity and democracy, which was deliberately excluded from the beginning: that's a great example of democracy. this has led to a model of europe with more powers and competences for the union and, above all, the proposal to pass the unanimity in the council on fundamental matters such as foreign and fiscal policy. the passing of unanimity in the council, the voting mechanism which allows all member states to block the adoption of decisions which are contrary to their interests, is a fraudulent and dangerous proposal. it would mark the beginning of an irreversible process at the expense of national sovereignty sanctioned by democratic choices of citizens and won by universal suffrage. it would be the final completion of the external link as a method of supranational governance. the founding fathers had foreseen the mechanism of unanimity, well aware of the risks inherent in majority voting, to prevent the creation of real occult blockade agreements between states to the detriment of some non-aligned member states. this idea of europe is not the citizens' idea, and we will never stop opposing it, despite the vain attempt to give a popular legitimacy by calling into question the recommendations of the failed conference on the future of europe. we are for a europe that safeguards true democracy and legitimate national interests, and that restores effective cooperation against the concentration of elitist powers that have only increased asymmetries, injustices, differences and discord between european countries and peoples. remember, sovereignty belongs to the people.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening at the russian-finnish border is a clear violation of the sovereignty of a member state and therefore of the whole of europe. we are talking about that legal territorial sovereignty on which we base the defence of our values, our identities and our cultures and on which we guarantee the security of european citizens. uncontrolled migration is a hybrid threat from which member states have the right to defend themselves. on the one hand, the exploitation of the human lives of migrants, especially the most fragile, is the result of a table-top plan that exploits, by some governments or by digital means or through criminal organizations, every means to carry out the great blackmail in europe. but on the other hand, uncontrolled immigration is also the result of an inability to govern a phenomenon now codified as a hybrid threat used against us. so the first step to getting rid of blackmail is to answer this question: is all the migration crisis a hybrid threat to europe's borders? does this also apply to the mediterranean, for example? because we have a common principle here. so it is time to choose and look to the future without turning our backs on the challenges of the present, today in finland, tomorrow elsewhere in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, gaza is hell on earth: they're running out of water, food and medicine. infants die in intensive care because of a lack of electricity. schools are being bombed, so are ambulances and hospitals. in a month and a half, more than 5,000 children, 200 doctors and nurses, more than 60 information workers and more than 100 un staff were killed. it's a carnage. what else does it take to get us to say enough? as we have condemned the crimes of hamas, we must condemn the crimes of netanyahu and his army today. europe supports the un and secretary-general guterres in their efforts to stop this massacre. i thank the high representative josep borrell for what he is doing, but the european union is the big absent, with heavy responsibility for what is happening because of its inertia. let us take real diplomatic action: we recognize the palestinian state and we cut off economic relations with those who deliberately kill civilians. to tolerate the annihilation of a people is complicity in the violation of human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, children who died of written attacks; civilian women and men killed ruthlessly just because they are palestinians; even babies who die in incubators because electricity has been cut off even in hospitals: this is happening in palestine; these are the serious responsibilities of netanyahu. a month ago, in this house, i asked europe to condemn this horror, these violations of international law and nothing happened. we have rightly condemned the terrorist action of hamas, we have rightly condemned the war act of putin's russia. but what are we waiting for to condemn netanyahu's criminal policy? it is a shame to accuse of anti-semitism those who criticize this government of israel: thousands of jews are protesting around the world against netanyahu's crimes. what is europe doing? don't you hate those desperate children, those bodies on the ground with no more heat? are there any deaths in series a and b? are there any crimes and violations of the law that europe tolerates? - no, i'm not. so, in respect of those innocent palestinian children killed by netanyahu's choices, europe must take a stand and condemn them immediately or it will no longer be the european union but will be a miserable hypocrisy.
the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of workers' rights and the right to work. in a context such as the present one, simplification of legislation must be an essential step towards promoting the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and ensuring a less passive and more collaborative relationship with public authorities. reducing regulatory burdens does not only mean lightening the burden of bureaucracy, but it is an investment in the european economic fabric, because promoting entrepreneurship is crucial if long-term job creation and prosperity are to be ensured. europe's competitiveness depends on our ability to provide businesses with the tools they need to compete internationally. and one of these tools is that radical process of bureaucratisation, which would allow italian and european companies to relaunch themselves and adapt to the changes imposed by the global market.
the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of workers' rights and the right to work. our companies are moving ahead because they already know that environmental consideration is a competitive factor and that we must invest in the green transition to stay on the market. our enterprises are moving ahead because they demand that they can do so with the right incentives and timing, not with absurd dictates that impoverish our production and risk turning europe from an aspiring world power to the world's most polluting economies. to the entrepreneurs who fight every day to defend the primacy and quality of our products, i say that they are not alone and that in this room there are still those who are fighting to release their energies for a better future.
i just would like to remind you, colleagues, when you are speaking, to think about the terminology you are using sometimes.
please conclude now, thank you. there is no interpretation any more. please behave according to the rules of this house.
mr president, dear colleagues, after the 2017 events, several people were convicted by spanish courts of serious crimes, such as sedition and the misuse of public funds. those defending this sánchez deal now really suggest that those crimes were never really committed. if that’s the case, why didn’t the socialists speak up at the time against the court rulings? or if those crimes were committed, then the reality is that the socialists are trading laws and the spanish constitution just to remain in power. isn’t this a textbook example of a serious violation of the rule of law? amnesty is for extraordinary situations. forming a government after an election is no extraordinary event. the deafening silence here in brussels and strasbourg, of all the left-wing tenors of the rule of law, is incredible. mr aguilar, for instance. my colleague, chair of the libe committee. aren’t you ashamed to try to defend the indefensible? all of this is crystal clear proof that all the talk in this house about the rule of law has absolutely no credibility. i wish strength and perseverance to the spanish nation. viva espana!
mr president, madam secretary of state, mr commissioner, on whether this is an internal or non-internal matter, i read the words of mr garcia iratxe: 'i have repeatedly said over the past few weeks that the european parliament does not have to judge anyone, but must ensure respect for the rule of law, the separation of powers and justice. that is what we are doing here today: we are fulfilling the words of iratxe garcía. i wanted to tell my socialist colleagues and the greens that i believe they are democrats and that they believe in the rule of law. tell me, do you think it's possible to create parliamentary committees to investigate the judiciary? do you think this is the rule of law? that this is respect for the separation of powers? this is a systematic violation of the rule of law. the amnesty law, the appointment of a minister and an adviser to the government as members of the constitutional court, the blockade of the general council of the judiciary, the change in the legislation on sedition and embezzlement were punctual violations of the rule of law; the amnesty law and the agreement are systematic violations of the rule of law. and that is why i say that i will never accept in my life that a state in which parliamentary committees investigate the judiciary and say (inaudible) judicial of political persecution is a democracy. that's george orwell's 1984 state of the union.
mr president, commissioner, today the conservative forces of this house have decided to bring a debate here to smear the good name of one of europe's most established democracies and to instrumentalise the european institutions. and the reason is the inability to take on the results of the polls in the last election in spain, on july 23. spain voted and a parliamentary majority has continued a progressive government. and not only that, but that same majority of representatives of national sovereignty has put in place the most generous measure of all, which is a perfectly constitutional amnesty law, as the case law of the spanish constitutional court summarizes, and which has a total legal framework in the european space. you know that this measure is explicitly contained in constitutions such as the italian, french, swedish and, at the same time, you know that it has been implemented on 54 occasions in europe? so why has no one ever brought that measure here, saying it violated the rule of law? - why? - i don't know. in the case of spain, it is set in motion to put a definite end to the greatest constitutional crisis our country has experienced in forty years. by the way, it must be added that it occurred during the popular party governments. it is a measure that demonstrates the strength of spanish democracy and a pardon that strengthens spanish society. europe and this house are full of scars and we know, because we are a good example of this, that we can move from confrontation to making words, voices and coexistence our way of relating. but why do you count on the european people's party's complicity in this debate? - why? - i don't know. the truth is, we're gonna be honest, is that you, mr weber, had the piece of spain and the spanish government for the 2024 european power games. that's the reality of what's behind it. and the spanish have said no to their strategy, which we see in various national governments and which i would like to reproduce here, which are agreements between the far right and the far right. if you are concerned about the rule of law in spain, unblock the infamous blockade of the general council of the judiciary. they end the harassment of public representatives and party headquarters and stop opening the door of institutions to the far right. spain will continue to have a dignified government, which defends the general interest and which will remain committed to the values of europe and its future. don't you doubt it. (the speaker refuses to be asked a question by paulo rangel in accordance with the blue card procedure)
mr president, we come to a plenary today concerned again about the threats to the rule of law in the european union. as the liberals, we have spearheaded this cause and have led the defence of the rule of law each and every time anyone has attempted to confront it – just to name them, poland, hungary or today spain. we are worried to see political concessions like an amnesty war or a parliamentary investigation of an independent judicial system. sacrificing the rule of law and the separation of powers in exchange of votes to secure a government is political corruption and, i would say, a political mistake. prioritising political wins over upholding legal institutions sets a dangerous trend, allowing politics to sway legal matters. it erodes the essential balance of power, a trait of every healthy democracy. upholding the rule of law and an independent judiciary are non-negotiable here in this european house. that is why: ciudadanos españoles, no estáis solos.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard in this parliament countless times about the rule of law, usually when there was a need to attack the left-wing governments who were unwilling to implement the programme by which they won the elections. our group has always denounced this political instrumentalisation. the rule of law is a serious matter. the question of the separation of powers is not a matter of permanent electoral campaigning. the atrocious paradox is that today, for the first time in a great european nation like spain, the rule of law is being brutally violated by those who have been mouthing it for years: socialists and communists, in order to remain in power despite the electoral defeat, decide to vote for the abolition of crimes such as sedition, corruption, insurrection, even terrorism, in exchange for seven votes. it is the most egregious abuse of political power over the judiciary ever seen in europe. and it is also the most blatant democratic scam ever seen in europe, because, as vox's friends recalled, during the election campaign, pedro sanchez had always declared himself against amnesty for secessionists. on democracy, commissioner gentiloni at the socialist congress in malaga said: "what is happening in spain is consistent with our democratic model", on the same day that commissioner reynders expressed serious concerns about what is happening in spain. now, to the men and women of spain, i just want to say this: i am not sure you can count on the european institutions. i hope so. but you can certainly count on the friendship and solidarity and support of all the patriots of europe.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all know what steps the european union must take to stand on the right side of history, on the side of women and girls in iran, murdered, tortured, abused, imprisoned and oppressed. to include the islamic revolutionary guards in the european list of terrorist organizations, as the united states has already done. isolate the regime from the international community. this is precisely where europe has failed, because it has not acted to prevent iran from taking over the presidency of the un human rights forum. it almost sounds like a joke. the european parliament must therefore return to being the megaphone of women and girls in iran. i therefore ask you to support a symbolic action and to ask that on 25 november, a date so important for all women in the world, the photographs of the members of the european parliament on our institution's website be replaced by the face of mahsa amini. we are mahsa amini. we are armita garawand, we are nasrin sotoudeh. we are the voice of iranian women and girls who have decided to take off their veils to show the world their face, the face of truth, dignity and justice. women. what are you doing? life. what? freedom.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it has been more than a year since the death of mahsa amini, the young iranian woman of kurdish origin who was arrested by the so-called "moral police" of iran for failing to comply with the veil. since then, iranian women have sparked one of the largest protests against the iranian regime, which has resulted in at least 500 deaths and 20,000 arrests. the arrested include european citizens, including two italians, who the iranian regime believes were guilty of being involved or having been at the sites of the demonstrations in memory of mahsa amini. the european union strongly condemns the iranian regime and does not compromise with those who are guilty of serious human rights violations: the european union, the cradle of democracy and the inviolable principles of man, stands with and supports the iranian people without delay.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my daughter, you were born a girl. i've always wanted a daughter to share games with the dolls, to take you to dance and piano lessons, if you want to, to give you better advice when, as a teenager, you have your first cuddles and when, as an adult, you really fall in love. you'll be disappointed, but you'll be able to get up if i've been a good mother. i'm going to teach you to believe in yourself, to be psychologically and economically independent, to love someone intensely but never to destroy yourself. i'll tell you, when you're old enough to understand, you'll never have to accept any snubs, no violence, even if it's small or seemingly harmless, and not even for a joke. i'll teach you how to report, how to defend yourself, how to learn to turn away people who want to hurt you. i will teach you to hate violence, not to tolerate it, and not to inflict it on others. grow up and never regret being a woman. he was proud and he was upright. remember to love with all your heart and without fear. when she was born, four years ago, my daughter, i wrote her this message and i think the first anti-violence campaign is what we parents do at home every day. the most important achievements in women's emancipation in history have been achieved through the self-awareness that women have achieved. this is still the way forward for the continued defence of women: freedom and awareness. unfortunately, there are few men in the classroom today, we're all women. that's what we have to ask ourselves: is this a debate for women only or is it about men too? it also concerns fathers, it also concerns children, it also concerns mothers. fathers, but mothers too, have the task of educating their children.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 2023 is not over yet, but we already count 105 women killed in italy alone. the last in the timeline is giulia cecchettin, brutally murdered the day before her graduation by her ex-boyfriend. we have our condolences to his family and all the families of the victims. but let us not be empty words, but a concrete commitment to prevent this from happening again, a commitment that we are carrying out at all institutional levels in italy. in fact, the red code has been approved in recent hours, which strengthens the prevention tools, while legislation has been introduced in the lombardy region to introduce the crime of double murder against a woman who is pregnant. we are asking the european parliament to promote good practice in all member states, even though we are aware that a law cannot save lives unless it first intervenes in schools, educating young people in respect. exactly what our government plans to do. finally, yes, patriarchal society must be brought down. you left-handers, you heard right: for once, we agree with you. let us bring down the patriarchy: but the real one, the one of islam, is the one of islam, which, thanks to your own goodness, instead of wanting free and emancipated women, often wants them submissive, veiled and sometimes married girls.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, giulia should have graduated in engineering on 16 november. but on that day, receiving that recognition for which she had studied so much and worked so hard, she could not present herself, innocent victim of a blind, senseless violence that brutally beat her in the body and annihilated her in the soul, until it took her life. according to un women's 2023 data, about 736 million women like julia have been subjected to physical and sexual violence, or both, at least once in their lives. exorbitant data, including those related to the lgbti+ community. the european union has not yet joined the istanbul convention, even six months ago, although many countries, including hungary, are not yet members. on 25 november we will celebrate this international day for the elimination of gender violence: but any celebration will be useless and empty until we are united in the same direction. the council's attempt to drown the directive on combating violence against women and domestic violence, now in its third edition, is unacceptable and shameful. clear and rigorous legislation must be put in place, both at european and national level, based on prevention, education and support for structures that protect victims of violence. but above all, we must defeat this shameful culture of possession and i say this as a man, i say this as a man in this chamber! hi, julia, rest in peace and apologize again for not doing enough.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, we heard many different and shocking stories this morning, but also we heard figures, which makes us even more alert. this international day is an important occasion to take stock of what has been done to end such violence, but, more importantly, it gives us the opportunity to assess what still needs to be done. the immediate and long-term physical, sexual and mental consequences of violence for women and girls are devastating and can limit women and girls’ active participation in society, from employment to education and politics. president von der leyen, in her state of the union this september said here, in this house, ‘i know this house supports our proposal on combating violence against women. and here too, i would like that we cast into law another basic principle: “no means no”. there can be no true equality without freedom from violence.’ just to reply to some statements on the istanbul convention and this directive. the proposal aims to achieve the objectives of the convention in the area of judicial cooperation in criminal matters. it supports the european union’s accession to the convention by introducing sectoral minimum standards, while not preventing member states from maintaining a high level of protection. on one hand, the proposed directive is more limited than the istanbul convention because it is limited to the area of judicial cooperation in criminal matters. on the other hand, within its scope, it goes further than istanbul convention, as it incorporates, as binding minimum rules, several of the best practices highlighted by grevio in its recommendations to state parties, and it addresses online violence specifically. dear colleagues, dear honourable members, now, more than ever, we need the support of all players to ensure the quick adoption of this directive on combating violence against women and domestic violence. this adoption will be an important step towards ensuring that the people living in our union live freely and safely, without fear of violence, in a union of equality. let us demonstrate that with our actions in the months ahead before european elections.
the debate is closed. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 171.
in writing. every year we celebrate the day against violence against women and girls, but the situation remains largely the same. the covid-19 pandemic has seen a significant increase in violence against women, and this indicates the need for solutions that establish accountability and punishment for violence against women. we have finally adopted the violence against women directive, which is a significant step in this fight, but now member states must take this problem seriously and take serious measures to address it. violence against women and girls is a major social problem, and women who have been subjected to violence often cannot find work, need psychological help and state support for housing and livelihoods. children are also victims of violence against women, and this cycle of violence continues. i hope very much that we will find political will in the negotiations with the council and adopt an ambitious directive which will be a significant step forward in this fight.
in writing. the situation is particularly worrying and, seeing that the situation and social judgment of women have only deteriorated in most member states with the introduction of the istanbul convention, i am particularly pleased that member states such as the czech republic and hungary have not ratified the convention, thus allowing them to establish a strong national guarantee system for the protection of women's rights and human dignity. one in three women has experienced physical and/or sexual violence since the age of 15. this data is estimated to be about double that of roma women and girls. i am pleased that the victim protection directive is finally on the agenda here in parliament, but i think it is of utmost importance that it strengthens the rules of the member states and not that it criticises or hinders their effective implementation. we must pay close attention to the fight against violent crime and to the assistance of victims. this is the backdrop of strong and comprehensive national regulations and local programmes.
in writing. on the occasion of the international day for the elimination of gender violence, 25 november, socialists are leading the way in supporting an effective european action to end gender-based violence, as in spain with that comprehensive law that will celebrate 20 years in 2024. women's rights are human rights and there is no place or space for violence against women in europe, so after the eu ratified the istanbul convention, we are faced with a historic opportunity to pass a directive that will allow tackling this type of violence in a comprehensive way which includes the crime of consent based rape and homogeneity, more now than the extreme right-wing denial forces, in some cases in governments, legitimize it.
it's in writing. the president! dear colleagues and colleagues! this saturday we will celebrate the international day for the elimination of violence against women - thus starting the 16 days against gender-based violence celebrations that will conclude the international human rights day. violence against women is increasingly being talked about, but still not enough. too many women are struggling with aggression, experiencing hatred and injustice. according to police statistics, three women die each week in poland as a result of domestic violence. every year, about one million poles are victims of physical or sexual violence, and 95 percent of those who commit such violence are men. in addition to physical violence against women, there is also emotional, psychological, economic and institutional violence - legal and social mechanisms that discriminate against women, including on wage issues. violence and discrimination against women is not a marginal phenomenon, but a widespread and serious violation of fundamental human rights. november 25, the international day for the elimination of violence against women, is a powerful reminder of this.
in writing. on the occasion of the international day for the elimination of gender violence, 25 november, socialists are leading the way in supporting an effective european action to end gender-based violence, as in spain with that comprehensive law that will celebrate 20 years in 2024. women's rights are human rights and there is no place or space for violence against women in europe, so after the eu ratified the istanbul convention, we are faced with a historic opportunity to pass a directive that will allow tackling this type of violence in a comprehensive way which includes the crime of consent based rape and homogeneity, more now than the extreme right-wing denial forces, in some cases in governments, legitimize it.
in writing. unfortunately, violence against women has not gone away in 2023. it's still real and it's getting worse. the violence has shifted in part from the physical to the mental and psychological levels. after lockdowns, we're seeing an increase in reports of violence against family members. and with the increased use of social media, rapists are finding new victims online. every woman has experienced some form of violence whether physical, mental or online. it's a sad truth of the day. no violence against anyone and you against women, children or the weak is excusable. no, you didn't deserve it. no, you didn't ask. no, it's not just a family thing. no one has the right to hurt another person. that's why it's important that we say no to violence and support its victims. i also think it's important to educate the people who first meet the victims to detect abuse or violence, that is, police, doctors, paramedics, but also prosecutors and judges, so that the rapists don't escape punishment.
the joint debate on judicial cooperation, with the reports by meps radev and kaljurand, follows: on the digitalisation of crossborder judicial cooperation (a9-0062/2023) and on the digitalisation of crossborder judicial cooperation (amending certain directives and framework decisions) (a9 0063/2023).
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i am pleased to be with you today for this debate about the new regulation and directive ‘digitalising judicial cooperation and access to justice in cross-border civil, commercial and criminal matters’. i am replacing commissioner reynders, who unfortunately could not be here today. let me start by expressing the commission’s appreciation for the swift conclusions of the negotiations on this file. the commission welcomes the agreement reached, and we already started preparing for the implementation of the new rules following the ambitious timeline set out by this legislation. the final agreement reflects the main objectives of the initial commission’s proposal. we are very satisfied that the common ground has been found on all points. in particular, the commission welcomes that co-legislators maintained the mandatory use of the digital communication channel for the competent judicial authorities and the optional use for citizens. the commission is also satisfied with the compromise found on video conferencing in civil, commercial and criminal matters. the choice of implementing acts for establishing the decentralised it system is particularly accurate, not only from the point of view of consistency with previous similar initiatives, but also because it underlines the implementation character of the measures to be adopted by the commission. the digital transformation changed the way we live, the way we do our work, the way we cooperate within the european union. and justice is no exception to this trend. the use of digital tools will empower judges, prosecutors, citizens and companies. access to justice and judicial cooperation in a cross-border context will become smoother, seamless and more resilient to crisis. the commission believes that the new rules will improve the delivery of justice and will increase the trust in the justice systems. they will also create a safer and more secure environment for communication between the authorities of different member states, while saving time and costs. i would like to thank you for the work done, and notably for the support of the rapporteurs, marina kaljurand and emil radev, as well as both libe and juri committees. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner dubravka šuica, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the agreement on the two texts which allow for the creation of secure and reliable digital channels of communication between the judicial authorities in crossborder cases. i would like to say how pleased i was to work with marina kaljurand and how constructive we were able to achieve. thank you, marina. the digitalisation of judicial cooperation and access to justice will enable the authorities of the different member states to work safely, quickly and effectively. closer judicial cooperation for better crime control. i also welcome the fact that these texts include an important part on training, on the one hand for the judicial authorities, and on the other hand for european citizens to make easy use of these digital tools. the digitalisation of justice must go hand in hand with training in new technologies so as not to exacerbate the digital divide. no citizen should be harmed by technological developments, especially when it comes to protecting his fundamental rights. these technologies must be in the public interest. for a europe at the service of citizens! for a more transparent europe! for a europe that protects our citizens!
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, madam representative, ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve a fully functioning area of freedom, security and justice, it is important that all member states seek to reduce the fragmentation of national judicial systems and make full use of the opportunities offered by the european union, and in particular those in the field of digitalisation. in order to ensure greater judicial cooperation and better access to justice in civil, commercial and criminal matters across borders, i believe it is essential to ensure mutual trust, interoperability and security. at the same time, we must safeguard the fundamental rights and freedoms of all persons concerned by electronic data exchange. i refer in particular to the principle of effective access to justice and fair trial, the principle of non-discrimination and the right to respect for private and family life. in addition, all procedural safeguards, in particular those essential for the protection of fundamental rights, should be fully respected in accordance with union rules. for all these reasons, i strongly support the amendments to the package of judicial cooperation, especially considering that these legislative initiatives should lead to a faster resolution of disputes and ultimately to improving access to justice for citizens and businesses, which is often the cancer of our economies and the result of years and years of inefficiency.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for the opportunity to join you today in this debate on the important report for the next elections. democracy is about our individual right to be heard, but democracy is also our collective responsibility. every new generation is responsible to keep our democracy healthy, make it more representative, inclusive, to protect it from internal and external threats, and to guarantee checks and balances on power. the commission launched what we call the ‘new push for european democracy’. our objectives, in that sense, could not be better aligned with parliament’s: to strengthen european democracy at the next election, to promote citizen participation and enfranchisement, and to promote institutional resilience. a focus has been on empowering citizens to participate and engage on elections. tomorrow on the college agenda, as part of the ‘defence of democracy package’, there is a recommendation on resilient and inclusive election processes. a particular focus will be on promoting the participation of all groups and addressing their specific needs. this recommendation is intended to support member states’ and political parties’ preparedness to foster trust in our elections. it will also support the effective exercise of electoral rights, the european dimension of the elections to the european parliament to promote election integrity and fair campaigning, election observation, as well as address cyber risks, hybrid threats and protection of the information environment around the election. we will also be promoting voluntary commitments from political parties to implement a high standard of transparency and respect for fundamental rights and inclusion in the conduct of the elections. reaching out to citizens is key. we do so by directly addressing citizens, for example, through eu-wide ‘get out to vote’ campaigns, by providing common eu channels for informing citizens where and how to register and vote, and spreading best practices, for instance, for citizens with a disability. the commission has just announced a guide of good electoral practices for persons with disabilities and a compendium on e-voting and ict practices in electoral processes. we also co-organised with parliament recently a tabletop exercise on cybersecurity in elections. we are dedicated to facilitating a dialogue at all institutional levels. the european cooperation network on elections, or our recent high-level event on elections, helped bring together member states with competence in electoral matters to exchange best practices. within this network, the commission established the ‘joint mechanism for electoral resilience’ initiative, supporting member states as a capacity-building tool to facilitate the exchange of expertise in areas such as disinformation, cybersecurity and online forensics. framed by the commission’s european democracy action plan, the report on the 2019 european elections and our european citizenship report, we have issued a number of proposals to strengthen the european dimension and resilience of our democracy. this includes the regulation on the transparency and targeting of political advertising, which, thanks to the work of the co-legislature, can become law already ahead of the elections. we have proposed to recast the directives which provide detailed arrangements for mobile eu citizens to exercise their rights to vote in european and local elections in their member states of residence. i am very encouraged that the council put these files back on the agenda, and i understand that discussions are making progress. i would also name our proposal on the statute and funding of european political parties and foundations, the media freedom act, and our work to protect journalists from strategic lawsuits aimed at silencing critical voices, as well as the digital service act. one important common thread with this measure has been transparency. citizens deserve to know where the information that they get comes from and who pays for it. finally, linked to this, we are finalising our ‘defence of democracy package’ with the goal to bring covert foreign influence to light. the college will put it forward tomorrow and it will be presented in this hemicycle shortly after.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, first i have to welcome this report because it’s really a quite consistent effort to reinforce the principle of lead candidate. and this is a good principle if we want the european union to be a parliamentary system of government. of course, we have to be very aware that this has nothing to do with a single constituency across the european union, because we have a lead candidate in a lot of member states, and there is no single constituency. so it’s a pity that sometimes we use some divisive language instead of trying to put everybody around this principle of lead candidate. but let me tell you that in a parliamentary system, the lead candidate system doesn’t mean that, at the end, the prime minister of the president of the commission is really one of the candidates, as we can see when we look at the english system. so what we have to do is that if we want really the president of the commission to be chosen by the citizens, then we should have a presidential system. of course, in presidential systems parliaments are very, very strong, but they don’t have any interference in the choice of the president of the executive. and i don’t want a presidential system. i’m only saying that that would be the consequential point. another thing that i would like to be very, very precise in this debate, because we lack a lot of knowledge of constitutional law when we are speaking about this. the truth is that the system that we have now is a kind of a semi-presidential system where the european council represents the head of state and has the capacity to nominate. and even if i’m totally in favour of the lead candidate principle, as it is now set up, and probably in the future with the revision of the treaties giving the parliament the capacity to appoint the president of the commission, that i’m totally in favour of, don’t say that this is undemocratic, because the european council is a european institution and it has totally democratic legitimacy at national level. but okay, this is something that you can see in a lot of systems, like, for instance, the finnish system between 1990 and 1991. but okay, this is only in defence of a more constitutional-law accuracy.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, the problem is that in european elections the abstention rate is always higher than in national or local elections. there are several possible explanations for this, but i think there is a fundamental reason: that despite the strengthening of the european parliament, many citizens today remain convinced that these are less important elections than others. so as the june 2024 elections approach, it is up to the european institutions to launch a major educational and information campaign for voter turnout, explaining that these elections are indeed very important because they decide who will govern europe and decide how europe will be governed. but there is more to be done: measures to make voting easier and more accessible; measures to make european parties more visible in the election campaign; and measures to strengthen the role of the european parliament in building the political solution that will determine the presidency of the european commission. it is what is proposed in this important report that deserves the support of this parliament for greater voting participation of citizens in european elections and for a strengthened parliamentary democracy at european level.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 2024 elections will be the most important since the fall of the berlin wall, because history is accelerating, and therefore we must accelerate european transformation. we must reform the union to unite the continent. that is why we have asked here to amend the treaties, both to reflect on the question of financing and organising an enlarged union of 36 states and the responses that the union must today give to the demands for more security, health, investment and education. we must let the citizens choose in the 2024 elections and follow through in the new mandate. this new european power must also be a more european democracy. we have, for the first time in this parliament, adopted a new electoral law, with transnational lists to europeanise the electoral debate. a major debate on europe instead of the 27 major polls on the health of the majority and national opposition. but the council is holding back. we must insist until the last minute of the last possible day to change the election law in time for 2024 and, in any case, make it a challenge for the new 2024-2029 term. clearly, without lists there can be no list headings. this has always been the position of our group and will remain so in 2024: hundreds of millions of our voters will not know the various candidates for the presidency of the commission without transnational lists. for the most important european posts, we will be able to indicate the personalities we prefer. but until we have a pan-european list, all this will lack the necessary legitimacy and democratic strength. that is why we must continue our fight: an enlarged, reformed, powerful union, a truly european democracy and more transparent elections without compromising anything.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we live in a strange time, one in which we european conservatives and reformists have the task of preserving the treaties which have established the union and defending them against the attempts to reform that are often proposed here. it is not new, in fact, at least for us italian right-wing conservatives, who since 1957 have been supporters of the european union, while those who today are turbo-europeanists supported and hated the soviet union and voted against ratification of the treaty of rome. it is probably no coincidence that the leftists are trying to replicate the leadership, absolutism and anti-democracy model that was typical of that political system. it is the council of european governments, not parliament, which, under the treaty of lisbon, appoints the president of the commission; parliament can only accept it or not, but it cannot arrogate itself to tasks it does not have. it is clear that the attempt by parliament to revive the commission's guidance is a reflection of the fact that the majority of the 27 eu member states are now governed by the centre-right. we would have defended what is written in the treaties even if it were the other way around, because we believe in a europe of nations, that of the founding fathers and not that of degenerate children; we believe in a confederation of european peoples, united to do together what they alone would not be able to do. the exact opposite of the federalist project that has been working on for years and today: the commission has already proposed a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. we'll measure this in the 2024 election, and see who wins.
madam president, honourable members, 2024 will be a crucial year for democracy in the world: there will be european elections, elections in taiwan and the us presidential election. we are very much focused here in the european union on electoral law, but the failure of european union policy over the last 20 years is in one thing: until 2008, the european economy was larger than the american economy, and from 2008 onwards, the american economy was outpaced by the european economy. today the american economy is 50% larger than that of europe. this is the failure of socialist policy in the european union in recent years. the commission has already made a number of proposals for a new directive on the protection of workers' rights. and the european union is backward, our old continent is getting more and more tired and tired. so what do we do? we must understand that to have a strong european union we need strong nations. in florence, two weeks ago, the league brought together our european allies of identity and democracy for a true european renaissance.
in writing. the epp group has always considered mental health as a priority on the european health agenda. unfortunately, because of their invisible nature, mental disorders are often forgotten and overlooked. but the data is clear and alarming: in europe, anxiety and depression account for more than half of all suicides. data on young people and very young people are also worrying: in fact, one in seven teenagers live with a mental disorder. after the pandemic, these data only got worse. european action in this area is urgent and the following major actions are needed: we must ensure greater access to mental health services and focus on prevention and education in schools and in the world of work. we must remove barriers to access to care, with more resources for states; we also need to work to eliminate stigma around mental health issues and, finally, we need to improve the collection of mental health data and statistics, which are key elements to combating and preventing this problem.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of animals. on 20 november the council of the european union adopted a text on the long-term vision for rural areas in europe to promote prosperity and social fabric. rural and mountain areas face many challenges, including depopulation, poor forest and wildlife maintenance and lack of infrastructure and adequate job opportunities. the european union has a very important role to play in the protection of the mountain landscape. support for mountain areas is not a dead letter, but is reflected in the adoption of specific financial instruments to support local communities that often face these challenges alone.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, you normally start building a house from the foundations rather than the roof and politically, before you set big goals, you should ask yourself whether you have the tools to achieve those goals. today we have yet another confirmation that the green transition has not been designed with the utmost rationality, so to speak. i congratulate the rapporteur on the speed with which this work was carried out. i would like to say that the commissioner's remarks are not just a matter of opinion, but also of opinion. the problem is that it's a text that came too late, a text that came after the green deal dictates. another topic: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. in this respect, it would be good to take a look at the uk's action on critical raw materials. so today we're putting the first brick, but the race to make up for lost time will be long and very complicated.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the text at issue aims to reduce the dependence on china for the extraction and processing of critical raw materials, which are essential for the energy transition, for digital technologies and for electronic and medical devices. the eu strategy aims, on the one hand, to increase extractive and processing capacity on european soil, and, on the other hand, to diversify trading partners. the european path to critical raw materials is also characterised by the desire to make greater investment in research and innovation, ensuring environmental protection through the promotion of circularity, recycling and greater sustainability. the agreement reached finally represents a starting point for the self-sufficiency of the union and a more circular economy, which can boost european industry and ensure an increase in new jobs over the next five years.
i would like to ask the commissioner if he can do this. one of the few common sense measures taken by this commission is now on the last mile of an ideologically-filled legislature. if you had some common sense, you would have thought first of what it would take to make the transition -- tools, materials, technologies -- but since there is little common sense in this, you have started from the bottom, from draconian positions for industry, home, car, agriculture, realizing only now that you lack the resources to achieve your goals. you want to build a house, but you haven't asked yourself if you have the bricks to do it. europe is dependent on third countries for the import of all the rare raw materials that underlie the change in the energy model and electrification; 90% of imports come from countries outside the main eu alliance systems. it didn't take a scientist to understand that after energy, the commodity market would be the weak link in our economy, moving us from energy dependence on russian gas to raw material dependence on china. so, well, this is the beginning of a pragmatic, concrete and conscious approach and once and for all the utopian ideologies that have dominated it in recent years are finally abandoned, forever.
the rapporteur. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mr sokol, the shadow rapporteurs in the chamber and all the staff of the negotiating team for the work they have done on this matter: the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the use of the electricity sector in the electricity sector. i would like to try to make a small political premise, especially for those who are most skeptical of this instrument. our text represents a significant improvement on the european commission proposal, which differs not in proportion but in the value we have given and recognised to personal health data, which have been deemed to deserve the highest level of privacy, especially with regard to so-called 'secondary uses', which do not concern the main purpose of patient care, if not indirectly. after listening to the representatives of the categories concerned, i am convinced that the european health data area can be a useful tool to provide better patient health care and cutting-edge health care in the european union and in all our countries, especially those countries that have not yet fully experienced the digitisation of health data, such as italy. all the work has been done from the outset in my capacity as rapporteur for the libe committee, aimed at introducing strong guarantees for respect for citizens' privacy, a priority and a must for us, taking into account also the experience gained in countries where electronic health records have been a reality for years. in these countries, it is possible to avoid repeated diagnostic tests, even invasive ones, to travel in skirts and cds for medical advice to a region or a state other than your own or for a second opinion of a health professional. in emergency situations, medical personnel can access the electronic file even if the patient is unconscious, check for any allergies, pre-existing treatments or diseases, and save a person's life. we have worked hard to achieve this goal, while also keeping in mind the need for our data to be available to everyone. we have therefore requested the application of rigorously tested techniques to ensure the confidentiality of information contained in electronic health data when processed, thus making it anonymous. we have also introduced the so-called opt-out system which, contrary to what the european commission has proposed, will allow citizens to choose to exclude all or part of their health data from the system for secondary uses. secondary uses not directly related to patient care but which are nonetheless important, such as research on life-saving medicines. the text provides that, under strict conditions, researchers and companies can access anonymised health data in a secure processing environment where strict technical and safety standards are applied. the amendments we have made to the parliamentary examination allow the citizen, unlike the text proposed by the european commission, to legitimately choose to use the system only for health care, and therefore for his own care, excluding further use. all you have to do is make an informed and conscious choice. however, i would like to stress the main point: we'll have a clinical record accessible via a smartphone or pc, we'll be able to decide who to allow access to, what data to hide or not share with some professionals, and we'll be able to check the latest accesses. it will be possible to decide which doctor to allow access to your data and which not, also because of the doctor's specialization. we have also included some provisions for those who are less tech savvy, because they may be older, but they will still have to have full control over their health data. in general, i believe that the work done in these months has enabled us to grasp the main challenge of the dossier, namely to strike the right balance between the use and exchange of health data for medical care purposes on the one hand, and the protection of personal data on the other. it wasn't easy, and you won't find us... (the president-in-office takes the floor from the speaker)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i listened to the debate and it has marked me a little, especially for a very political reason, for the political group to which i belong and to which i am convinced. i therefore want to say to all the members that most of them have already expressed their skepticism and their timidity that we have a clear understanding of the role of europe and the role of nations and what we want in this europe. that is why we have worked on this text with conviction and determination to strengthen it where we felt it was not in line with our needs, even politically. today our citizens "give" often allow me the term their data, even for futile reasons, related to ridiculous applications and really superfluous uses. today we are asking that this use of data, which we have tried to protect in the best way possible, has a specific purpose, with an important legislative ratio, which is to protect the health of our citizens and the progress that must be made in health in europe, and not only in other continents, in favour of citizens from other parts of the world. that is why we, also on this political side, have decided to work on this text and support it. i understand the difficulties but i hope that the text will be read without prejudice or political prejudice, because, as we have seen in recent years, which have marked us greatly, the health and wellbeing of the citizens comes first.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the council, and we are now in favour of the proposal. for example, you are favoring china, dictatorship par excellence and communist regime. - what about? on electric cars and batteries, giving them an indecent monopoly that will tarnish the automobile of all europe. what is the point of talking about democracy if you let china buy from us piece by piece, without ever telling them about the systematic violations of human rights and workers' rights? what about iran? you talk so much about women's rights and then you are the first to promote the islamic veil in the commission's communications as something positive. you want to be the strongholds of freedom and democracy, and then you find out that for years, community funds have been used to finance islamist and terrorist-related activities. i mean, in addition to the proclamations, there's also a bit of consistency.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. mr president, i support the people of guatemala in their struggle for sovereignty in the face of the relevant attacks to undermine the democratic process. as a member of this parliament's international observation mission, i had the honour of being there and we saw the legitimacy of the outcome of the guatemalan elections. we saw that it was a very clear election result: the semilla party has won and there is an elected president, who is named bernardo arévalo. there was no fraud, as the supreme electoral court and the european union's election observation mission said. neither the madrid forum that supports the far right nor all attacks on democracy in our beloved guatemala will bring about a coup. finally, the end of dictatorship, corruption and impunity has come. guatemala has suffered a lot: it has problems of poverty and inequality. this is what the people of guatemala have voted for: they have voted for change. of course, guatemalans and guatemalans, we will always defend you from this parliament.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, three months ago we were already aware in this house of the real danger of a coup in guatemala. and the corrupt pact doesn't want their privileges questioned. that is why the prosecutor's office and the public ministry criminalize the student movement and journalists like mr zamora, who investigate their corrupt practices, corrupt practices of institutions totally coopted to the service of a few. but the popular will is stronger. the guatemalan people are defending in the streets what was expressed at the august polls, and our position must be clear: demand the provisional suspension of the commercial pillar of the european union-central america partnership agreement with guatemala, since guatemalan institutions have long failed to respect the rule of law, democracy and human rights in the country. from here, my full support for the guatemalan people. we will not be silent in the face of this coup attempt. we will not be silent in the face of this attempt to silence the popular voice.
mr. president, i want to support guatemala's democracy, as do my colleagues, and clearly reject any deliberate attempt to question the outcome of the presidential election. the election was a few months ago. it is quite obvious that they were conducted according to the laws of the country, that there is no doubt about the outcome of these elections. they were confirmed by the local judicial authority, the highest electoral tribunal. foreign missions, including the european one, have clearly confirmed that the elections were going well, and we are now witnessing one of the government bodies in guatemala, the state prosecutor's office, deliberately trying to disrupt these elections, or to question their outcome, and thereby greatly damage guatemalan democracy. it's very good that we're standing here today, expressing ourselves this way. we stand with the guatemalan people, with the guatemalan democracy, and we really have to do everything to make sure that these elections are not challenged.
mr president, the european union must cooperate with the legitimate authorities of guatemala to tackle a condemnable coup attempt, which is regrettable because of the attempt to unlawfully overturn the citizenship decision that put bernardo arévalo and karina herrera of the seed movement at the head of the country. it is also shameful for the way it has been carried out: using the institutions of the state illegally, partisanally and illegitimately, degrading them and ruining principles such as the separation of powers and institutional neutrality. these issues are an attack on the quality of democracy in the country and the fundamental rights of its citizens. i therefore share the proposal to punish those responsible for this undemocratic action in a personalised manner. i subscribe to the calls to continue monitoring the situation, to restore full freedom of the press and expression, and to release those arbitrarily detained. i expect president giammattei to take a consistent approach and publicly reject all manner of maneuvers to prevent the elected president, bernardo arévalo, from taking his oath of office on january 14, 2024.
mr president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening in guatemala these hours is serious. the prosecution is moving to avoid the transfer of deliveries and the press conference on 8 december, in which the prosecutor reiterated the need to revoke immunity to the elected president, is only the latest blow from a disgraced and dangerous political class. the un high commissioner for human rights has been clear: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission. after 12 years, the guatemalan people have decided to change their ways and to support those who spoke of defending rights, fighting corruption and organised crime, defending the rule of law and self-determination. we must reaffirm our closeness to the guatemalan people, the elected president arévalo and the semilla movement and call out loud for the election result and democratic presidential transition to be guaranteed by january 14, 2024. we must fight the coup attempt. i thank the high representative for what he is already doing.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to achieve the objective of making europe economically safe, investment capacity is first necessary, and to invest, a sustainable reform of the stability pact is needed. well, in my house, covenants are to be respected, and to do so, we need sustainable rules, not brainstorming. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to be taken to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used to finance the implementation of the common agricultural policy. to secure the economy, we also need to be more energy-savvy. in the past five years, however, we have seen how unfortunately sometimes zealous climate and energy policies have discouraged investment in those sources that could be alternatives to the intermittent and non-programmable nature of renewable sources, which are still destined to play an important role in the energy transition. investment and energy resources are therefore two of the elements needed to strengthen european economic security, a topic that has been overlooked for too long and emerged with great force after the pandemic and the conflict in ukraine. so, in conclusion, all good projects need investment, but it also takes humility to recognize when certain recipes have not worked and, if we look at the data on growth and gross domestic product, we have to realize how in europe for years we have walked while others were running.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a historic period when the conflicts and numerous crises on both sides of the atlantic risk destabilizing western democracies and redrawing the new geopolitical balance at international level for the next few decades. our values of freedom, democracy and the rule of law are constantly under threat and today more than ever we need to strengthen transatlantic unity as a prerequisite for a prosperous and free world. next year is crucial. the european and american elections require us to remain vigilant and cooperate together to counter the dangerous russian and chinese interference, both in information manipulation and election interference. this is one of the common commitments we signed as delegations to the european parliament and the american congress on 1 december in washington. the european union and the united states are natural allies. our historical, political, economic, commercial and, above all, cultural ties are an indispensable bulwark against authoritarian regimes and the very bulwark of democracy, capable of ensuring a system of international relations based on multilateralism and security, but above all on the collective welfare and the full realization of the human person.
mr president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, china is a danger to europe, we must be clear about it. as covid-19 has shown us, this country is not a reliable and transparent partner but, on the contrary, an enemy willing to cause a global disaster to protect its interests. now the story repeats itself with the green transition: china is holding us up with batteries, microchips and rare earths and at the same time invading our market with low-cost electric cars, even thanks to state aid from the communist dictatorship. italy has just abandoned the silk road memorandum, distancing itself from the chinese regime, and it is time for europe to strike a blow if it does not want to succumb. in recent days, after its first and only mission in beijing, the european commission has denounced the severe trade imbalances between europe and china and even announced an investigation into chinese dumping. - that's good. if we had known that president von der leyen needed a trip to beijing to hear what the league has been saying loudly for five years in this parliament, we would have been happy to pay for this transfer, but long before that!
hynek blaško is no longer a member of the id group and is one of the non-registered mps from 13 december 2023.
in relation to the decisions of certain committees to open interinstitutional negotiations under article 71 (1) of the regulation, announced at the opening of the sitting on monday 11 december, the president has not received any request for a vote in the chamber from a number of members or one or more political groups equal to at least the average threshold. the committees can therefore enter into negotiations.
let's move on to the discussions. the agenda shall contain the statements by the council and the commission in preparation for the meeting of the european council of 14 and 15 december 2023 (2023/2937(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. the european council will meet in brussels on the december european council, following a summit with the leaders of the western balkans, which will be held this afternoon. the agenda of this european council will be tight and, as always, the meeting will begin with a change of views with president metsola. they and the leaders will again address the issue of russia's war of aggression against ukraine. they will also discuss the extension and the draft revision of the multiannual financial framework. security and defence will also be on the agenda, as will the latest developments in the middle east. ukraine remains one of the highest priorities for the european council. the country is facing its second winter of war and it is important that we reaffirm our unwavering determination to continue to provide our financial, economic, humanitarian, military and diplomatic support for as long as it is needed. the leaders will take stock of the latest developments on the ground. they will also address ukraine's urgent military and defence needs and stress the importance of continuing and sustainable military support to ukraine, in particular through the european peace support fund, the european union military assistance mission and the direct bilateral assistance of member states. they are also likely to highlight the urgent need to speed up the delivery of missiles and ammunition to ukraine and to supply more air defense systems. following the high representative's report, the european council will discuss the union's future security commitments to ukraine. secondly, based on the talks held in granada and the recent enlargement report of the commission, as well as on the discussions at yesterday's general affairs council, the european council will hold a comprehensive enlargement debate. both the future member states and the union must be prepared for the prospect of further enlargement of the union. yesterday, at the general affairs council, we adopted conclusions on enlargement. leaders will provide guidance on the next steps for the aspiring countries, ratify the conclusions adopted yesterday and finally make the most relevant policy decisions on the enlargement process. they will also address the european union's capacity to absorb new member states and the reforms needed to do so. thirdly, the situation in the middle east will once again call for the full attention of the leaders. they will not only review the latest developments but also look ahead to relaunch a political process based on a two-state solution. fourth, the european council will re-examine the proposal for a review of the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework following the first debate in october. following the intensive work undertaken since then, the leaders will address how the union's main political priorities are financed. the current presidency of the council is confident that an agreement will be reached at this next european council. the european council will resume its debate in june on security and defence, another item on the agenda. and in a context of global instability, strategic competition and security threats, we must continue to strengthen our defence, investment and capacity readiness. the european council will continue to debate the adoption of new decisive measures necessary to make the union's defence stronger and more capable. the council will then continue to deal with migration, which remains an urgent concern. it is expected that the leaders will re-examine this issue and discuss the state of affairs within the institutions, within the council. finally, a number of other issues are on the agenda. first, they will address the issue of hybrid attacks launched by russia and belarus at the union's external borders and the instrumentalisation of migration. next, as you all know, the council will also discuss post-cop28 action in the current climate emergency context. in view of the worrying incidents that have taken place in europe, it is expected that the leaders will condemn all forms of hatred, intolerance, anti-semitism, racism and xenophobia, including anti-muslim hatred, and the european council will also address the eu's relations with turkey. finally, following the informal meeting in granada and taking into account the union's long-term objectives, the european council will consider the preparations for the new strategic agenda, which will set priorities and set the course for the next institutional cycle. these are the issues of the european council.
president of the commission. – madam president, minister, honourable members, i want to focus this morning on two main issues. one is the enlargement topic and the other one the mid-term review. we should remember that exactly two years ago, right here in strasbourg, we discussed for the first time russia’s military build-up at ukraine’s border – two years ago now. and these have been two painful years. we all remember every moment of them. we remember the siege of kyiv, the people taking refuge in subway stations, the maternity ward in mariupol, the body bags in bucha. we remember all the pain that putin has inflicted on innocent ukrainians, as well as on europeans with its energy blackmail. but besides the pain, we must also remember the light that has shone through these dark days, the courage of the ukrainian resistance, the joy of those who were liberated from russian occupation, the solidarity of an entire continent standing at ukraine’s side. none of this seemed plausible or even possible two years ago. so let me, first of all, thank all of those who made it happen. above all, the amazing people of ukraine, but also europe that stood tall and united. ukraine has resisted also because of the people of europe who have opened their hearts and their homes, because of the member states’ financial and military aid, because of this parliament’s unwavering support. you have empowered ukraine’s resistance and you have kept hope alive. now, a new winter of struggle approaches for ukraine. we have a duty to be clear-eyed about what we have achieved so far and what lies ahead. when russia invaded ukraine, many feared that kyiv would fall within days. that did not happen. instead, ukraine has driven russia out of half of the territories it has captured. at sea, ukraine has pushed back russia’s fleet and reopened the maritime corridor to deliver grain to the world – i think this is completely underreported. in the air, ukraine has become incredibly effective at shooting down russian missiles and drones. and on land, ukraine is imposing massive losses on russia. tens of thousands of young russian soldiers get killed or wounded every week. and further away from the battlefield, finland has become a nato member. sweden soon will be. ukraine is on its way to eu membership. the kremlin has deprived itself from western economies and innovation systems and made itself dependent on china. so putin is not only missing his strategic goals, he is also imposing a dramatic cost on his own country. but we all know that putin’s failure will not automatically translate into ukraine’s victory. as the war drags on, we must prove what it means to support ukraine for as long as it takes. ukraine is not only fighting against the invader, but for europe, and joining our family will be ukraine’s ultimate victory. and for this we have a decisive role to play. ukraine is making great strides to pass the reforms that will lead to our union. our enlargement report from last month showed clear progress on all steps that we had identified. over 90% of those reforms had been completed at that time. we identified four reforms to fully complete all steps. and in this month between the enlargement report and now, ukraine has continued to work on all of them. the rada has just approved two anti-corruption laws, on the staff of the national anti-corruption bureau and assets declaration, as well as an amended law on national minorities to address the remaining recommendation of the venice commission. this law will allow greater use of minority languages in schools, in books, and in public events. actually, national minority groups have already reacted positively to this law, and our initial assessment is also positive. if effectively implemented, these actions can fulfil three of our four outstanding recommendations. ukraine’s government has also proposed a new law on lobbying to curb the power of oligarchs and address our last recommendation. honourable members, this is hard work and the goal of fulfilling all seven steps is within reach. i think ukraine is showing us by this hard work and the speed, how much they care about our union and our values, and we should match their determination. honourable members, besides our political support, ukraine also needs our sustained financial support. and this will also be discussed, of course, in the next two days at the european council. when we shaped the current eu budget in 2020, no one could predict an all-out war on european soil. its shockwaves have spread well beyond ukraine. the union budget had to deal with an energy crisis, with a global food crisis, with the arrival of millions of ukrainians fleeing russia’s bombs and all of this against a backdrop of rising prices and interest rates – because, of course, russia’s war had also added to the inflationary pressures of a global economy that was just recovering from the pandemic. and now the deadliest war in decades has erupted in the middle east, calling for greater european support not only in gaza but across the region. none of this could be predicted when the mff was created. none of this can be solved by simply shifting money within the budget. and this is why we have proposed a revision of our budget. we have proposed a package of four major updates to the mff. the first is that we want to guarantee stable and substantial financing to ukraine over the next four years. that will provide confidence of the investors and of course, it will provide hope to the ukrainian fighters. we must give ukraine what it needs to be strong today so that it can be stronger tomorrow at the table when it is negotiating a long-lasting and just peace for ukraine. the second element is on migration. you all know that in these four years we have raised our ambition on anti-smuggling, on managing our external borders, on partnerships with third countries. we have designed the pact for migration and asylum and an agreement has never been so close. now, greater ambition on migration must be backed by appropriate funding on the european level. the third element is competitiveness. all member states want to boost the cleantech industries of the future, rightly so. we should support them by making better use of the available investments we have with simplified rules and speedy procedures, because we all know that the future of these strategic industries must be in europe. and the fourth point: we also need some technical adjustments to the budget. the union’s budget, like other national budgets too, is feeling the pressure of inflation and higher interest rates. this is, of course, a consequence of war and pandemic and we have to factor this in. now, what i see in all the preparations for the european council and the discussion that we have: there is a growing consensus on the priorities. of course, the question is how to finance them. and we know that national public finances are under pressure. we will all face difficult choices and we must leave no stone unturned. and this is why, more than ever, the union must be able to finance its priorities with its own resources. this has been a long-standing plea of this parliament, a plea that i fully support. thanks to the parliament, back in 2020, we agreed on a roadmap to put in place new revenues for the union budget. we need to make this happen now. the next long-term budget is just around the corner, and europe must have the financial firepower to deliver on the historic tasks of this decade and of the next one. so, honourable members, this will be the main topics discussed at the european council, i thank you for your attention, and long live europe!
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, president von der leyen, dear colleagues, just over the course of the recent weeks, we as institutions of the european union have achieved a lot together: we have reached an agreement on the first global artificial intelligence act, we have adopted the critical raw materials act, reducing our dependency on china and providing predictability to our industry. all of this makes europe stronger and safer and we have, just two weeks ago here in the plenary of parliament, voted the budget of the european union for next year, which also gives predictability to the beneficiaries of eu funds for next year. but we need to give predictability to those who expect european support in the long term, and this is why the first important topic of this council will be the revision of the multiannual financial framework. it was agreed in 2020. since then, we had to do many things which we did not anticipate. the commission was right to put forward a revision proposal of the multiannual financial framework in june. we the parliament have expressed our view, and we urge the council to adopt its position on this revision at the council meeting this week, so that early next year we can conclude the final negotiations between parliament and the council on this topic. why is this important and what do we expect? this revision is important to provide support to ukraine, to better protect our borders, to manage migration, to strengthen our economy and make it more competitive, and indeed to support ukraine. this revision is also important to create reserves for unforeseen developments so that, if anything unexpected happens until 2027, the union can support people in case of need. this is the first important topic of the council. the second one is indeed enlargement. let me be clear: what ukraine needs from us now is those concrete tools that help it win the war on the ground, the military support. but the financial support is also important. i was in washington last week. the eur 50 billion that the european union will put forward for ukraine will be essential to mobilise international, including us support. we cannot expect other regions of the world to support ukraine financially and militarily unless we are there in the front line and support ourselves. last point: the accession talks. no one is talking now about the immediate accession of ukraine and the republic of moldova to the european union, but what is important is that these negotiations start. why is this important? because the accession negotiations are the best tool that we, as the european union, have to make our neighbouring countries safer and more stable, to help them reform, modernise and get closer to european standards, as well as adapt to and implement european legislation. this is why these accession negotiations are not only in the interests of our neighbouring countries, but they are in the interest of the european union as a whole. this is the view of parliament, of the majority of its members. we hope the council can unanimously make this decision this week.
on behalf of the renew faction. the european council, the council and the commission, have been very active in this area. because ukraine must not lose the war. what's putin gonna do when he wins in ukraine? viktor orbán, elected with an anti-european programme, has been casting his shadow on this summit for weeks. one man on the brakes is holding the whole european population and the brave ukrainians hostage. the safety of our citizens is not a political game. so we can't admit it. if we give orbán one finger, he'll take our whole hand. as far as i am concerned and as far as this house is concerned, we must continue with the article 7 procedure very, very urgently. if someone violates our values and norms in this way, we cannot give him a euro, a cent of european money. and please deprive him of his right to vote. it 's clearer than ever: we need to get rid of that crippling unanimity. how do we ever let someone block the whole thing like that? one man who risks everything, who risks our safety. the same thing with the extension. i am very pleased that enlargement is on the agenda of this summit, but i hear very little about that necessary reform, that deepening. we voted in favour of an excellent report by mr verhofstadt on how we should reform the union to be ready. we're 27 now. we can see it's not working, right? we cannot give europe the speed it needs to show now. so please, make work of that reform of the union. we must eliminate unanimity, create a smaller commission, create a real foreign minister for our european union, so that we can speak a clear language on that european stage. i want you to make that geopolitical commission you have been so hard at. it is now or never, in the interests of europe.
on behalf of the greens/efa group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the choices that the 27 heads of state or government of the european union will make together tomorrow will be decisive for our future for all. without a collective surge, i invite you to imagine what is on the horizon. imagine if they fail to grant ukraine the opening of accession negotiations when it pays with its blood to defend the values on which our union is built. imagine that, succumbing to the obsession of the religious fundamentalists of the zero deficit, they condemn each other to permanent fiscal austerity and, with them, the european union, which they themselves are constantly entrusting with more and more tasks. imagine that, in their desperate search for unanimity, they are finally abandoning the fundamental principles of the rule of law and democracy in favour of those who have chosen the path of autocracy and corruption within them. imagine the consequences of this triple desertion. the european union and its member states will, by their own actions, be deprived of the means necessary both to ensure our social cohesion and to invest in our future, starting with the fight against climate change, which is the key to our collective prosperity. this austerity imposed by brussels, which is being used by the singers of nativism and national preference, will surely lead a growing number of our citizens to give their voice to nationalist populists from all sides. at our borders, ukraine will inevitably be condemned to yield to the aggressor, deprived of the political, material and financial support necessary for its existential struggle, which must remain ours. the european union will then have chosen its own paralysis. it has condemned itself to division and has sabotaged its ability to act on the present and forge a future. in short, she who wanted geopolitics would simply have sacrificed her sovereignty, and this for the sake of dictators and autocrats in this world, starting with vladimir putin and, if re-elected, donald trump, who, with all their friends, would be too happy to pass the european union by loss and profit and make its member states their toys. i therefore call on the men and women of the state in the council chamber not to let this fiction become reality. do not underestimate the seriousness of the challenges we face together. don't give in to blackmail. defend the rule of law without weakness. support ukraine in its fight against putin and for access to our community of values. give yourself the means to invest to ensure that the planet remains habitable and that all people live in dignity. the pandemic and the war have strengthened the awareness in our societies that our destinies are connected. most of our citizens are convinced that only our solidarity and cohesion can ensure the conditions for a dignified existence and offer citizens around the world the prospect of a fruitful partnership with us. i therefore urge you, members of the european council, not to galvanize this confidence. you're up to the challenge. keep the course we've been on for the last few years. history, our history, is still to be written and it needs real leaders.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. the world is much larger than the european union and it is not going in the direction we are pointing. it has not done so with sanctions against russia or in the fight against islamic terrorism; it's not doing that on energy and climate change. for this reason, europe needs unity and pragmatism as never before. it is not the time, and it is not right, to change the treaties to strip nations of their prerogatives; it is not time to re-propose old budgetary and austerity parameters, but rather to reduce bureaucracy and invest in economic growth. it is not the time for green ideological radicalism, but for a technologically neutral approach. it is not the time for a europe undergoing globalisation, but for a continent capable of taking the lead on the international stage and defending its interests with firmness if necessary. it is therefore right to proceed with enlargement, without any incitement but also without discrimination. there are no first class, second class and other nations for walking or in freight wagons. for us conservatives europe exists only in its complexity, not in the leadership of a few governments who arrogate the right to decide for everyone else. it is not always easy to seek a broad consensus on the decisions to be taken, but how can we get other nations to join the european union, depriving them of their political sovereignty? never before has europe made sense as it does today if it is able to confront, compactly, those who aspire to a world of violence and prevarication. it's christmas in a few days, and as much as anyone here may ignore it, europe is a product of christian civilization. i hope that the next council will be a moment of light and not a mere political showcase. never as today is there a need for an alliance of nations that lights the way for itself before the rest of the world. merry christmas to all, even those who don't believe.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, i am not sure what the commission has done to the commission. i am not sure what the commission has done to the commission. this is normal, we understand this well, and it cannot even be a list of things done and things not done, even because it sometimes fails to meet the wishes of a presidency. there are positive results, perhaps only thanks to the evidence of some surveys, which say that citizens are tired enough of an ideological will to impose a whole series of rules that risk creating problems. you spoke of european primates and optimism, i may be a pessimist by nature and i don't feel extreme right-wing, so i don't know if you were referring to my political group when you said that there are anti-european forces here, but reflection cannot be reduced to saying "we are the good ones and you are the bad ones", because many of the issues that we have brought forward in the past years, on immigration and on economic governance that doesn't work, are today the key to solving some of the problems that some of you have finally understood to emerge and are important. so, of course, thanks to your very good diplomats, we've closed some important files, but many remain to be closed. i said the stability pact; there's the theme of the migration pact that something improves, but it's definitely not the revolution. we are even hoping to close the ten-t infrastructure networks on monday, and therefore also items that do not concern specific policy. the reference to the fight against terrorism is good. i would like to recall a former vice-president of this european parliament who was hit by a very serious attack in madrid a few weeks ago. i would not like, and this is my appeal, that in order to defend the status quo and to say 'we are the good ones, we have always done everything' we should give up the proposal of so many millions of citizens, even through the parties of this far right you speak so much about, because i think the signals have come through strong and clear in the netherlands.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report on the situation in the community. i believe no one should be persecuted for their ideas. fighting for your people, for the identity of a people, should not be a crime and i think it applies to catalan independents too, but i find it disgusting that you made a deal with the independents just to go to government. this is hypocrisy and political opportunism! today in this house he is saying that migration must be controlled and that migration policy must be ordered and regulated: we agree with you, but i wonder if it's the same pedro sanchez who attacked minister matteo salvini in march 2022 for doing the same things you're saying today. stop the hypocrisy of "comrade" sánchez, stop the free attacks and be consistent, stop attacking the italian government!
president. housing is priceless for young people. food prices keep going up. it's important that we look at the root cause: the policies of central banks. that's fueled inflation. that's what's been driving the housing market down. add to that an unthinking energy transition, uncontrolled migration, rising protectionism and increasing regulatory pressure, and you have the toxic cocktail we're in right now. the solutions of the left, such as free money, raising the minimum wage and nationalising the housing market, will only make the problems worse. we need to address the root problem. the ecb's policy should be focused on price stability, not on saving high-debt countries and the climate. the tax rate for low and middle income people should be reduced. governments and the eu should therefore spend less, not more. we must be committed to free trade so that we can buy more and cheaper products. and we need to close the borders to illegal immigration. that's what needs to happen. that's what we're gonna do.
the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment. almost 28% of young people aged 15-29 experience overcrowded housing problems, while almost 41% experience excessive housing costs. inadequate prices and shortages of housing undermine the future and the prospects for an independent and dignified life of young people, especially our university students. the rise in prices affects families who see the cost of their housing increase, but they must also contribute to supporting their children who are engaged outside the home. it is essential that the european union intervene with adequate financial instruments to encourage student housing and to support young people who face rising house and rental prices every day. helping young people means giving europe a future.
mr president, because of high inflation and the corresponding cost of meeting basic living needs, families are having less and less disposable income. mortgage payments have reached unsustainable levels and a large number of families are getting into an existential struggle when they are unable to pay high interest rates without reaching their savings or reducing their quality of life. banks have historically made huge profits despite one crisis after another at the expense of the citizens of the european union. i therefore welcome the proposal to tax the excessive profits of banks which the slovak government has taken and has also taken to reimburse part of the costs of mortgage loans. just for your information, colleagues and colleagues, in slovakia, a citizen, a young family, needs to earn for a 75-square-foot apartment for almost 24 years. can you imagine what it must be like for young families to start their lives with such a huge deficit? i therefore ask the commission to look at ways to deal with this disastrous situation in general, but also with regard to banks.
mr president, we are very concerned about the housing crisis in recent years. the problem is not exclusively portuguese, but the fact is that the rising cost of living, the difficulty of accessing affordable rent, the late departure of parents from home are a particularly serious reality in my country, portugal. the socialist government, which has been in power for years, has completely forgotten about young people in its policies. a developed society is built on the valuation of its generations and all this has not happened in portugal. we are witnessing a rise in real estate prices a phenomenon that has become an almost insurmountable barrier for young people aspiring to own or rent a home. new home construction has fallen 85 percent over two decades and prices have risen far more than household incomes. in the last decade, only 110,000 buildings were built, compared with 500,000 in previous decades. the socialist government and the members here, also socialists, are calling for a common solution for europe. why? why? because in portugal they were unable to tackle this problem with solutions. but the union, as we have said, already has and already supports housing. it is therefore imperative that an effective plan be developed in portugal to address the issue of affordable housing and to offer young people fair wages and opportunities for professional growth, using the structural funds as a concrete response to these challenges. the psd proposes support such as the imt exemption, stamp duty or other. the socioeconomic future of portugal depends on this path.
mr president, mr commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are being asked for protection, security and prospects for the future. paradoxically, they do not ask for utopia, dreams and innovation, but for protection. we're in this together. the commission has therefore decided to take the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not over-crowded and that the community's financial resources are not over-crowded. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are adequately used. i think it is time to propose an extraordinary plan for the house at european level. we have dealt with vaccines, the pandemic, the minimum wage, the child guarantee and equal pay, we have done so much here in brussels, we have not wasted time; so you also have to deal with the uncomfortable housing, which doesn't mean a roof over your head but a condition where you develop a perspective on life and feel like an active citizen. i cannot help but stress that tonight we have reached an extraordinary agreement with you, commissioner, and with the presidency: we have said enough about precariousness and enough about exploitation for a very underpaid and very discontinuous class of workers in the workplace, digital platform workers the riders, to give an example and we have created a simple legal infrastructure, which however gives social rights to workers who have so far been underprotected, often young people. let's say if you're employed in everything and everything by an algorithm that struggles to call you or consider you an entrepreneur at the height of your entrepreneurial creativity, you're a subordinate worker. that's what we said, and we said we don't want to be governed by algorithms. we'll keep going and protect our... (the president-in-office takes the floor of the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in italy one in three students cannot afford to pay the rent of a house and 30% of university students are in enormous financial difficulties. there is a need for some 700 000 beds and some 40 000 are being offered, only 5%; the pnr has financed 10 000 new beds, but many of them are run by private individuals who then rent these houses for 800 euros a month, paid for with european money. in cities like milan, a bed costs 600-700 euros a month. this kills the right to education and the opportunity for those born into a less affluent family to study and grow up; the social elevator function of the university is destroyed by the inability to offer accommodation at a reduced price. we have a duty to help all young people who need affordable housing, and especially students. the situation of university students in italy, i believe, needs strong and concrete european help, not talk.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the qatargate for the left in europe does not exist and must be censored. at first you tried to minimize the biggest corruption scandal that has plagued the european institutions. now try deleting it directly. the libe committee recently issued an opinion, which was full of calls for the eu institutions and member states to protect ngos, instead of focusing its and the european institutions' attention on the transparency and accountability of ngos financed from the european budget. yet qatargate has uncovered hundreds of influential acts on parliamentary activities and even attempts to channel the sacharov awards to human rights. unfortunately, europe's opaque funding continues to: we've seen funding for illegal immigration ngos and funding for the islamic university of gaza, a stronghold of hamas and a place used to study how to launch rockets at israel. over the past 15 years, millions of euros have also been given to islamic relief, which has significant personal ties to the muslim brotherhood worldwide and has transferred millions of dollars to hamas, consolidating its power. how much european money has helped terrorism? europe has also funded the forum of european muslim youth and student organizations (femyso), which has ties to millî görüş, the turkish islamic movement under investigation in germany, and campaigns on how good it is to wear the islamic veil. under the guise of anti-racism or islamophobia, islamist organizations enter the european institutions and get funding in the rain with little or no controls. the truth is that you do not want to put a strain on the ngo funding system at all, and that is a shame!
on behalf of the id group. the family is one of the foundations of western civilization. it is the first link in our social organisation and ensures the necessary development and protection of children. this is why i have long advocated the preservation and strengthening of a policy of support for families. but this can only be done at national level, as each state has its own conception of the family. the report aims to europeanise family protection by creating a european parenthood certificate. this is an interference, all the more serious in national jurisdiction, which will require each member state to recognise different parentage established outside its borders and thus impose the recognition of pregnancy for others throughout europe. the report admits this in a hardly veiled way, striving to remove the exception provided for in private international law, which allows each state to refuse to recognise a membership incompatible with its public order. i am, however, very much against other people's pregnancy, which is nothing more than a new form of exploitation of the bodies of women in poor countries by couples in rich countries. respect for the dignity of women requires that this commercialisation of their reproductive function be avoided. for these two fundamental reasons preservation of a conception of the family and hostility to the gpa , i will therefore vote against the european parental certificate.
mr karas, commissioner reynders, rapporteur maria leitão, and by this regulation which creates a single european certificate of membership on a legal basis, which is a mandate of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, article 81, mutual recognition of legal documents in civil matters, and which serves to realize a fundamental right, not only the free movement of all persons without discrimination, but also the best interests of the child, enshrined as such in articles 24 and 32 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the child's best interests which must be protected and regulated throughout the european union, regardless of the family background. insofar as a person has all his or her fundamental rights at his or her disposal, he or she must have the right not only to free movement, but also to education, maintenance and succession on an equal footing with any other person, regardless of the family in which he or she is enrolled. no child can therefore be held responsible for their origin. whether or not he is legally admitted to a legal system, he is a person with all his fundamental rights and therefore also the right to freedom of movement with a single european certificate of membership.
mr president, commissioner reynders, rapporteur leitão-marques, the regulation we are discussing today aims to guarantee, once and for all, the full legal recognition of parenthood throughout the european union. with the regulation, parenthood that is recognised in one member state, automatically will be recognised by all, fully and mandatorily. by doing so, we put children first and we ensure the rights of all kinds of family, regardless of their sex, country of origin or country of residence. this will prevent any member state from backtracking and hindering progress and rights. a victory in one member state shall be a victory in all. this text also contributes to harmonising the norms of international private law in the area of parenthood, strengthening the rights and protection of children when they move within our union. we are providing legal security to minors and reducing litigation in the cases of divorce of parents that reside in different member states. ultimately, we are advancing on european rights and freedoms, bringing our entire union to the 21st century and protecting european children.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a regulation is a slap in the face of national sovereignty, which aims to de-escalate national legislation to prevent governments from opposing abnormal businesses such as the 'rented womb'. to imagine that the principle of freedom of movement for european citizens is used as an excuse to oblige all member states to recognise as parents those who go abroad to buy a child is a pure perversion. how can you, i ask, have such a grudge against the poor that you consider it lawful to humiliate an economically distressed woman by buying her body for a pregnancy and tearing her child out? how can you be so enslaved that you want to legalize the sale of children? how can you be so racist that you support a business that's eugenics-free, with women to hire at different rates based on the probability that the newborn is born white instead of black, blonde instead of black? how dare you call this filthy "civilization" and who authorizes you to impose it on the european peoples through legislative fraud? i call on the people of this house who have a conscience, starting with the colleagues sitting on the epp benches: join us tomorrow and we vote firmly against this abnormal regulation, because we cannot give our children a society in which everything, including women, children and even fetuses, can be bought or sold. the birth of a child is the most sacred thing that exists, and it must remain sacred.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: in order to encourage movement, this measure also aims to facilitate the practice of 'rented wombs' even where they are prohibited, as in italy and in many member states, without invoking public order. the recognition of the child's birth status is provided for in any way the child is born or conceived, including through the practice of the "rented womb". and don't tell me that women lend their uterus out of solidarity, like they do with organ transplants, it's not like that. it's a child that is being given away, not an organ or tissue. if it were to be compared to organ or tissue donation, the same criteria should be used, but this is not the case: if you want a baby, you choose donors from a catalog, selecting those with the desired characteristics, like the surrogate mother, whereas in organ transplantation, the recipient doesn't choose the donor, which is rarely the case. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, which are in fact not yet in force. the price lists are online and you can choose where to buy the baby depending on your financial situation. and we remember the sad story of the children who were ordered before they were taken and had to be taken out after they were paid and who, because of the coronavirus, were left in hiding abroad because they could not take the package. it was all booked children, paid in installments. children are no longer subjects of law but objects, and women's dignity is forgotten and i am not there!
- mr. president, please. the subject of today's session is not just a legal issue, but an ideological and political overthrow. the european union would be in conflict with our plans to introduce the eu parental certificate, since the definition of the concept of family has been strictly left to the member states, and that is fine. your plan is in many member states and therefore contrary to the hungarian constitution. you repeatedly claim that you do not wish to undermine the traditional christian family model, but you repeatedly prove the opposite. the citizens of the member states should be left with the choice of whom and how they wish to live together. they are taking the same route as when they want to force unlimited immigration into the member states. this proposal shows that the protection of sovereignty has never been more timely. we reject this proposal in this form.
i saw them too late, the blue card, and it's the chairman's decision to take blue cards or not. i apologize for being late to see her.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today i am given the opportunity to speak in the european parliament on a subject which is very close to my heart. it is a question of adoptions and the difficulties faced by all those who wish to adopt in our member states. adoption procedures are time-consuming, bureaucratic and exhausting for the children and the parents. it's a waste of precious time and money, and at the end of the day all it should take is love and the will to create a beautiful family. very often, because of problems, couples unwittingly even end up in child trafficking circuits, with tragic consequences for all. the commission has already decided to extend the period of validity of the agreement to the member states. this would facilitate adoption procedures while promoting recognition among countries, as today the conflicts between legal frameworks are causing problems for couples and their children. although adoptions are not within the legislative powers of the european union, i believe we can help create the capacity to facilitate and recognise transnational adoptions, to help our union's couples and the thousands of babies in orphanages and foster care systems to gain the confidence and love that a stable and warm home can offer them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, too often, too often, children lose or risk losing their rights just because their parents have been reunited in a state where parental relations are not recognised. the european child rights regulation is an important step forward on the rights of minors based on judgments of the court of justice of the european union, which has repeatedly reiterated that minors have inviolable rights regardless of how and where they were conceived. we must overcome national differences and ensure equal rights for children and families throughout the european union. stefano rodotà, a great italian and european jurist and politician, always reminded us that rights are not only the mirror and measure of injustice, but also a tool to fight it. i trust and firmly believe that tomorrow the european parliament will show courage and true justice.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a crucial moment for our planet and the future of the new generations. cop28 marked a key milestone because we have reached an important agreement, which defined a serious and realistic path: the commission has already made a number of proposals for a new directive on the protection of workers' rights. financial commitments have also been made to achieve the objective and, on such an ambitious path, fossil fuels also play a role in avoiding serious social upheavals. the big news is that the fourth generation nuclear issue has been introduced. to date, according to research that will continue, it is the cleanest source and puts the entire world before a great opportunity to achieve our ambitious goals. with the cop28 in dubai, china and the united states also spoke again. now let us all work together with great determination and join forces: our commitment and our action today are the key to our future and the future of our new generations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 28th united nations conference on climate change proposes to put in place a series of actions to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. the attention to climate change is certainly shared but it must not become a crazy environmental race, which would lead to the collapse of the entire european economy. today, our companies are faced with a much greater challenge, given the high energy costs and unfair competition from china, india and the united states, which are less sensitive and attentive on the environmental front than europe. the european union must act quickly and effectively to help our families and save millions of jobs for our businesses from bankruptcy. the energy transition must be implemented gradually and intelligently, with adequate economic aid to our companies; this cannot and must not be done at the expense of european companies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the cop28 has yielded results, but we are not yet really determined to tell the truth, namely that we must immediately end fossil emissions because it is the future of all mankind. we have known dictatorships on this continent, the fascist dictatorship and the nazi dictatorship, and today we cannot think of moving forward with the dictatorship of fossil-fuel capitalism. and i also tell the capitalists that ecology is a business. having energy from genuine renewable sources that does not pollute and do not compromise the future of our children and our planet is a business. so, just as europe has opposed and will always oppose fascism and nazism, it was right yesterday for mr sanchez to remind us how dangerous the far right is, we must also say enough about fossil fuels in a much shorter time. and we hope that in brazil in 2030 this will happen with greater determination.
as far as the explanations of vote on this subject are concerned.
the minutes of this meeting shall be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next meeting. if there is no objection, i will forward the resolutions adopted at today's meeting to the persons and bodies referred to in those resolutions.
the next meeting will take place from 15 to 18 january 2024.
i declare the session of the european parliament suspended.
