madam president, i say to the prime minister and my dear swedish colleagues: first of all i would like to congratulate the swedish prime minister for such a clear statement on ukraine, on ukraine being a major strategic priority for the swedish presidency. and i would like to stress the importance of just a few points of this broad ukraine agenda. it would be very important that during swedish presidency decisions should be made in order to start eu membership negotiations with ukraine and moldova during this year. we need to win not only military battles, but also political and geopolitical battles against kremlin. second, as it was mentioned by my colleagues during this week, the european parliament, i hope, will pass a resolution on the establishment of a special tribunal for the crime of war aggression. i hope that swedish presidency, together with the ukrainian authorities, will do everything for this tribunal to be established during this year. and the last point: after the kremlin has made one more terrorist attack, this time against apartment buildings in dnipro, i hope the swedish presidency will put wagner and other russian military groups on the eu list of terrorist organisations, as the european parliament recently demanded. good luck – lycka till.
madam president, dear colleagues, what we witnessed in dnipro is pure and simple state terrorism. this terrorist attack reminded me of another terrorist attack on 11 september 2001, when al-qaeda attacked and destroyed the twin towers. i do not see any difference between those terrorist attacks and the aims of terrorists. i see only a big difference in how the west was and is reacting. in my view, the difference comes from the simple fact that al-qaeda attacked big cities of the west while, for the time being, putin – as a terrorist – is attacking only ukrainian cities. let’s not make a strategic mistake. it’s only a question of time until kremlin terrorism will come to our cities. you cannot stop such terrorism just with statements of condemnation or statements of solidarity with the victims. i do not expect that nato will be involved in the fight against this sort of terrorism like it was after the al-qaeda attack. but i hope and expect that the eu in the end will manage at least to put the wagner group and other russian military groups on the eu terrorist list, as was done with al-qaeda. the dnipro tragedy brings an additional argument that this cannot be delayed anymore.
mr president, mr commissioner, mr president of the council. in fact, the signal from dnipro is very clear to us putin's regime with its asses is brutally slaughtering civilians. in lithuania, we remember january 13th, 32 years ago, when the soviet regime killed our men and women. now, 32 years later, the putin regime is killing civilians in ukraine. we have said, in more than one way, that the signal is to tighten sanctions in a very special way so that there are no loopholes left for the putin regime to take advantage of the economic benefits of trade with the european union. but not just sanctions. we need not only to defend the ukrainian skies, but we need to free the ukrainian land from the aggressors. we have to send the equipment that is needed today, whether it's heavy tanks or other armored vehicles or artillery. my dear colleagues, the victims of the dnieper still sometimes force us to act quickly and severely. glory to ukraine.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear colleagues, if we want peace, those who are destroying peace should be punished, in a heavy way. justice is needed not only for ukrainians. justice is needed for all of us. justice is needed for peace. such justice cannot be delayed, since justice delayed is justice denied. there are three types of crimes during the war: war aggression as such; war crimes as in bucha; and crimes against humanity as a genocide. the crime of war aggression is called the ‘mother of all the war crimes’. it is a crime against peace and it is a leadership crime, since only the leadership of the state is deciding to start war aggression. war crimes and crimes against humanity are investigated by the icc. but the icc has no direct mandate to investigate the crime of war aggression. that is why we need a special tribunal, not only for putin but also for lukashenko, since he allowed territorial belarus to be used for criminal russian aggression. the way back to peace starts from the establishment of a special tribunal. at least let us not be late with the tribunal when still we are late with leopards.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, mr commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. as history shows, the aggressor and his accomplices who commit war crimes are punished. this is shown by the nuremberg trials after world war ii and the milosevic trial in the hague after the yugoslav war. at this moment, the world is watching with horror putin's aggression in ukraine from bucha to the dnieper. the kremlin forces commit all possible crimes, shooting innocent people, bombing residential buildings, civilian infrastructure, raping women and girls. it is therefore essential that the european union, together with ukraine and international partners, establish as soon as possible a legal mechanism to prosecute those responsible for the crimes of aggression. i believe, and i repeat, that this requires a special international tribunal to punish not only the perpetrators but also the main architects and planners of all crimes, such as vladimir putin, his inner circle and his sponsor alexander lukashenko. mr commissioner, please take a more active leadership role in the establishment of this international specialised tribunal. i hope that the united nations general assembly can also reach a majority and give a mandate to set up a special tribunal under the un rules. in the meantime, the temporary prosecutor's office should collect evidence and prepare it for the work of the social tribunal. ladies and gentlemen, i call for the support of the motion for a resolution tabled on the establishment of a special tribunal.
madam president, dear colleagues, this morning the swedish prime minister said, ‘ukrainian victory is existential for europe and, honestly, existential for the whole world’. i more than agree. the european parliament will adopt the right and necessary resolution on a special tribunal for kremlin crimes of aggression. but will there be enough courageous heads of state who will establish such a tribunal without delay? let us hope so. we have shown incredible unity, but every time the russians hit the ukrainian people’s homes with horrific missiles, i feel guilty that we are not doing enough. we need to overcome our own fears and act with much more determination. are we so weak that we cannot allocate enough weapons and resources and make the terrorists in the kremlin stop? no, we are not weak. let us do everything we can.
madam president, to paraphrase famous authors, crimes are similar and must be punished. whether it was a private terrorist or an international actor, they're the same. a criminal is always afraid. the main feature of the aggressive russian war in ukraine is that the aggressor is a coward. russia is afraid of being bound by international agreements on a fair and impartial trial. perhaps he knows better than we do the abyss of cruelty into which he has plunged himself. in order to avoid accountability, it has not ratified the rome statute of the international criminal court, and it is brazenly demonstrating its impunity in the un security council. russia is thus depriving itself of the barbaric, hard-to-understand acts. so this resolution is necessary. we will send an important message to like-minded people and to all people of good will in the world. and on belarus: we remind the batka that providing cover for terrorist acts is also terrorism.
madam president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your time. i've been to afghanistan a few times and i've seen how caring and talented afghan women and girls are. and today, i think we have to be very clear, we have to put pressure on the regime so that it cannot take advantage of the financial resources that it is taking advantage of. there was a mention of drug dealing. i think if we reduce drug use here in europe, then the sale of drugs in afghanistan will also decrease. we also need to continue to support the most important, most vulnerable groups in afghanistan, such as women, girls, children and minorities. but we also need to make sure that those who have left afghanistan, here in the european union, are given the right help so that children in particular can go to school, get an education and maybe one day return to run afghanistan according to their wishes and their understanding. because that generation of talent that grew up, that was educated, in afghanistan, when we were there and supported them, today, they can actually help their country if we provide them with help.
madam president, dear colleagues, russia must be defeated and expelled from ukrainian soil – not some day, but this year. this requires hundreds of tanks, fighter jets and long—range missiles, now. ukraine must be invited to eu membership negotiations – not some day, but this year. our goal is to grant eu membership to ukraine before the end of this decade. bold and swift eu decisions on ukraine’s future in eu will help the country to ultimately defeat putin. nato must welcome ukraine through its open doors, not at some point in the future, but as soon as war hostilities on its territory end. that means this year. we have to be ready for that. the eu must act as a geopolitical leader because this is a historic chance for us all. we need ukraine.
madam president, dear colleagues, the keys to a sustainable peace on the european continent are in the hands of ukraine. sustainable peace in europe is possible only if russian people will transform their country back to democracy, because democracies are not fighting each other. the west needs to have a strategy of how to assist such a transformation. first of all, russia needs to be ‘deputinised’. this means the total military defeat of russia, an international tribunal for putin and an invitation for ukraine to become a member of nato. such an invitation would send the most powerful signal to russians that their dream to restore their empire is gone. from another side, the eu needs to assist russians with the inspirational example of the success of ukraine. such a success of ukraine can be created only through ukraine’s integration into eu, just like the success story of the central europe was created. ukraine’s geopolitical integration into the west is no less important than leopards or abrams for ukraine’s defence because this is the only way to sustainable peace on the european continent. and that is why the summit should establish the ‘integration ramstein’ in order also to deliver integration.
mr president, mr commissioner, you were right when you said that the future of ukraine lay in europe. but today the future of europe is being decided in ukraine, and therefore we can only achieve peace if all the troops of the aggressor putin leave ukrainian soil and the territorial integrity of ukraine is restored. this requires that the meeting we are talking about ensures that all sanctions loopholes are closed, that an international tribunal is set up, that ukraine is given all the weapons it needs to defend itself and to repel the aggressor, and that the european union negotiations on ukraine's accession to the european union begin this year. i would also like to stress the importance of ukraine's integration into the european union. i would like to propose that we review the possibilities of linking transport lines, particularly by rail. i also want to take this opportunity to thank the people of my country who are tirelessly sacrificing for ukraine and hosting war refugees in their homes. glory to ukraine!
madam president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your time. it has already been said that one of europe's main and greatest achievements and rights is indeed that its citizens can move freely throughout the european union, young people can study, others can work and some can even access healthcare. but the right to vote is also a fundamental right of the european people. and we've already seen that almost 13 million people live outside their country of origin. the revision of this directive is therefore an opportunity to improve the conditions for european citizens living in countries other than their own to participate actively, both by nominating their candidates and in the electoral processes themselves. i also join those colleagues who said that it was particularly important for us to attract people with disabilities, because we can see how strong these people are, how much initiative they have, which is needed to be heard in the european parliament. i therefore invite everyone to support this initiative and to further strengthen democracy, allowing us to represent all european citizens.
mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your time. we have all been really shocked by the qatargate scandal, but we have to agree here that we are all ready to fight corruption and build resilience to corruption. but we cannot take the easy way out and blame the whole corruption scandal on ngos. ngos are required to declare their income. but we have to understand that ngos are not the same as commercial lobbyists. ngos are actually talking to us now in disaster situations everywhere -- whether it's turkey, whether it's syria, whether it's war refugees from ukraine, whether it's supporting people here in europe. so i think we have to understand that ngos are our true allies in the fight for human rights, freedom of conscience and also in the fight against corruption. so let's really leave room for the work of ngos in the fight against corruption.
madam president. thank you, ukraine. thank you for defending peace. what would europe be like if putin had taken over ukraine in three days, as he planned? yes, it was a horrible year. however, it would be much worse if the infection of putinisation took over a large part of the european continent. today, ukraine is winning this war. but it depends on us, how fast the decisive ukrainian victory will be achieved. a year ago, ukrainians got not scared fending off terrorist russia. we are safe behind ukraine’s shoulders. and we also should not be scared. we must provide ukraine with everything they need: air defence systems, fighter jets, tanks, long-range missiles. we must deliver on opening eu membership negotiations as soon as possible this year. we must not repeat the bucharest nato summit mistake: we must invite ukraine to join nato at the vilnius nato summit this year. our bravery will bring the victory faster and save many ukrainian lives. this can also bring change in russia itself. but we must not be afraid of the fall of putin’s regime. i didn’t want to say this – what i will say now today – but i have to. yes, berlusconi is horrible, but he is not alone. socialist schröder, socialist presidents of croatia, bulgaria, socialist leader in slovakia – let’s condemn all of them. let’s fight all proxies of putin on our own courtyards. slava ukraini!
mr president, this war can be stopped tomorrow if mr putin will decide to withdraw his troops from ukraine. however, since it is not realistic, the only way to end this international crime is to defeat russia in the battlefield. the first year of a brutal war has shown that the combination of highly motivated ukrainian defenders and the western weapons are much stronger than the russian military capacity. that is why the delivery of the western weapons is the most crucial factor which can bring the end of this war. i repeat, it depends only on the west how long this bloody war will continue. i am convinced that all the possibilities to help ukraine to achieve its victory during this year. for that to happen, the west has to stop being afraid of russian defeat impact on the future of russia. on the contrary, in order to have a sustainable peace on european continent, russians need to be convinced to abandon their nostalgia of an empire. that will happen if russia will be defeated in ukraine, if putin will be brought before the international criminal court, and if ukraine will be invited to join nato. slava ukraini!
mr president, dear colleagues, most of us agree that the eu and our partners should increase and speed up support to ukraine. as high representative, you said to our military aid, it must include everything that is needed for ukraine to defeat the russia army and regain full control of its territory, including air defence systems, fighter jets and long-range missile systems. as the president of commission said, we need to implement a new sanctions package. but this is not enough. the eu also need to take a stronger position on any individual or entity that is helping russia to avoid imposed sanctions. any company in europe that is trying to profit from the war situation should be placed under criminal investigation, have its assets frozen and confiscated, and its owners tried in the court as supporters of terrorism. at the same time, we must show that eu is ready to start negotiation with ukraine for accession to the eu process this year. slava ukraini!
author. – madam president, i hope that everybody knows that since his arrest, navalny has been subject to ill treatment, including torture, arbitrary punishment and psychologic pressure, including sleep deprivation and lack of medical care. recently, as all of us have been informed, navalny was moved to a ‘penal confinement cell’. his lawyers report his deteriorating health. alexei navalny was not allowed to have visits for the last eight months. new trial with new charges against navalny is set for march or april, with risk of new prison sentence of up to 35 years. the behaviour of the kremlin regime with political opponent and political prisoner alexei navalny is simply inhuman. it reveals the nature of the kremlin regime, which is a clear brutal tyranny. today kremlin has the two major enemies: a democratic and free ukraine and a freedom-loving, but freedom-denied russian people. there is no hope that the kremlin regime will come back to an endorsement of the principles of human rights and the rule of law. but it is clear that putin very soon will be on trial, not only by special international tribunal for the crime of war aggression, but also by the justice system of democratic russia for the crimes against the russian nation. we stand together in solidarity with alexei navalny, vladimir kara-murza, ilya yashin, aleksey gorinov and all other brave russian people and their families, with their personal sacrifice and in solidarity with their fight for democracy in russia. we urge the eu institutions and the eu member states to give all the support to those who are struggling for the freedom of the russian nation. for us it is clear that very soon, both ukraine and democracy in russia will win, and both victories will be a victory for alexey navalny. therefore, we call upon the eu and the whole democratic community of the west to have a clear strategy how to assist both victories: one of ukraine and the other of democratic russia. we are convinced that such a victory is the best action of our solidarity with alexei navalny and all the others who are fighting for the democratic future of russia.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, unfortunately, again, we are discussing about the situation on human rights in russia. the politically motivated trial of alexei navalny and his team was a showcase for the russian regime that will not stop against anything in order to defend its ruling position. now the regime and its officials are going even further. they’re making inhuman living conditions for alexei navalny and later they are denying proper medical care. it should be made clear that each prison official and their master minders for this action can and will be tried in the future. yet again, i strongly believe that the fate of alexei navalny and other political prisoners in russia or belarus strongly depends on the success of the ukrainian army against russian invaders on the battlefield. only by losing the war, russia will have a chance to break free from that totalitarian grip.
mr president, trials of andrzej poczobut, ales bialiatski and, earlier, mikolas statkevich and others showed again that the regime of lukashenko is determined not to silence any dissident’s voice. i believe in this way lukashenko is showing not his strength, but his weakness. dictator is full of paranoia and is afraid of anybody with a different view. i agree with colleagues who are asking the commission and the european council to include into the sanction list those who are responsible and involved in these fake trials. we also should work more and better with our international partners in americas, africa and asia to support our approach in isolating the regime of lukashenko. even more, everybody who is responsible for the violence and the human rights violations should be tried in absentia, and the criminal arrest warrant should be waiting for them as soon as they cross the belarussian border.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the past year and its shocks have once again shown that food security is not guaranteed. european farmers are experiencing a particularly difficult period caused by the russian war of aggression against ukraine, which has severely disrupted agricultural production, led to an energy crisis and high fertiliser prices. lithuanian and eastern european farmers also suffer from low direct payments, which are unfair and which you, mr commissioner, have promised to correct. i also asked you about lithuania's dairy industry, because the lithuanian government is not responding. i look forward to your reaction and that of the commission. the main purpose of agriculture is to provide people with healthy food. in addition to organic farming, fertilisers are essential to achieve this. of course, fertilizers are not to be abused. one of the objectives of the european green deal is to reduce fertiliser consumption by 20%. but we must ensure that, while setting ambitious targets for farmers, we also give them the tools to achieve them. first of all, any demands to reduce the use of fertilisers must be correct. as you have said on many occasions, the use of fertilisers in europe varies widely and the reduction in use should therefore be based not on percentages but on absolute figures per hectare. we must also shake hands with european scientists. new genome-based plant breeding technologies can provide many opportunities to develop plants that are more resilient and have better agronomic and nutritional characteristics. unfortunately, our scientists and farmers have not yet fully exploited this potential, and we need to improve regulation and open up access to scientific advances as soon as possible. (the president agreed to hear mr rzońca's reply in accordance with the blue card procedure)
, blue-card reply. – i’m not sure i understand that correctly, because the question was quite long, but from my point of view i think we have different positions here. first of all, we are talking today about the price of fertilisers, and this is our main goal – to cut it. your suggestion is to have another vision and to implement effective, maybe, measures, which is also a very important one but it is not related directly to this question we are talking about in this stage.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, your excellency mr president, dear colleagues, i would like to welcome the president of my country in this house, which in the european union has the strongest institutional adherence to european values of democracy, human rights, liberty, solidarity and respect to dignity of each human being, despite what is his or her colour of the skin, and what is his or her sexual or political orientation. the european union will be strong if it will be based on those values without compromises, if it will be based on those values not only here in the european parliament or in some other eu institutions, but also on a national, regional and local level. this is the only way how those values can be established also on the whole european continent. why is it so important to talk about those basic principles and values? because this is the only way how sustainable peace can be established on the european continent, since there is a very well—known law of geopolitics: only democracies are not fighting with each other. that is why defence of those values everywhere in our union and the spread of democracy and basic human values into the eastern side of european continent is the most important strategic geopolitical goal for all of us, and especially during this war. we need to recognise, all of us in the european union: we are not perfect back home in this area. there are things which we need to improve and to strengthen, also in lithuania. but today i want to elaborate on what our president was speaking about. what should our common strategic agenda be in order to assist the nations in the eastern part of the european continent to enjoy the same european values of democracy and human rights? i want to repeat: sustainable peace on european continent will be established only when belarusian and russian people will have a possibility to enjoy those values and to live in normal european conditions. such a strategic agenda will be implemented only if we shall proceed with a very clear strategic action plan. first, ukraine needs to decisively defeat putin’s russia during this year, and that will create possibilities for big political changes in russia and belarus. our most important obligation: weapons, weapons, weapons… and sanctions. second, the absolute geopolitical priority for you during this year: to start membership negotiations with ukraine and moldova. that would be the most powerful european geopolitical answer to kremlin hybrid offensive activities in the region, especially in moldova and perhaps also in georgia. third, the integration of ukraine, moldova and possibly georgia towards the eu should be concluded till the end of this decade, since that is the only way how successful and prosperous democracies can be created in those countries. the success of those countries would be an inspiration for belarusian and russian societies to follow. fourth, ukraine needs to get membership in nato, if not during the vilnius summit this year, then during the washington summit next year. it would help russian people to abandon their dream to restore empire because ukraine will be gone. fifth, the eu needs to show clear perspective. democratic belarus will have possibility to integrate into the eu. democratic russia will have a special and very practical relationship with the eu. we lithuanians want to be part of a european union which is able to implement such a democracy action plan because this is an action plan for sustainable peace on the european continent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am proud to be the representative of lithuania. mr. president, you have mentioned our glorious history. but i will say that in the last 19 years, when we became members of the european union, there has been a really huge leap. our gdp has increased by more than three times, reaching almost 90% of the european union average. we are full members of the european union and the euro-atlantic alliance. the last year has certainly been very challenging: covid-19, the stolen elections in belarus by the belarusian dictator, the russian war against ukraine. your excellency, thank you for your personal initiative and your rallying support for ukraine. i also want to take this opportunity to thank the people of lithuania for hosting the refugees and supporting ukraine and its armed forces. today there is a debate, but i fully agree with you that the only guarantee of peace is the expulsion of the occupying troops from ukraine, the establishment of a special tribunal and the punishment of the criminal aggressors, and ukraine's full membership of the european union and nato. you mentioned not only the russian dictator, but also belarus. nearly one and a half thousand political prisoners in belarus are held in inhumane conditions. i would therefore ask that we in the council, together with the european parliament, do everything possible to secure the release of political prisoners, including alexei beliacki, maria kalesnikava, mikhail statkevich and others. nevertheless, the crisis caused by russian aggression in the economy, in other sectors and in the resilience of our citizens, some people are profiting from that crisis. we've seen huge gains in the energy sector, in some pharmaceuticals, in the banking sector. i think we need a concerted effort to strip those surpluses and allocate resources to what is needed most, defence and the building of a welfare state. we also see the importance of food security. and here my colleague mentioned that it is really time for us to make a joint effort again to ensure that european farmers receive equal support and that direct payments reach the farmers in the baltic states so that we can live in a socially just europe.
mr president, dear colleagues, we know very well how strongly the georgian people want to join the eu. but today, georgia as a state has a problem on the way to achieve such a strategic goal. and that problem has the name of bidzina ivanishvili. unfortunately, formal and informal authorities in georgia are united in their tactics to deliberately create new and new problems on that path of integration. that is why mikheil saakashvili and nika gvaramia are kept in prison. and that is why we recently witnessed a story with ‘foreign agents’ law. the initiative of foreign agents law was a deliberate political provocation of the georgian authorities against the people of georgia. such a behaviour of authorities is absolutely opposite to what the eu is demanding from georgia – to depolarise political life. it is good that georgian people in the streets managed to defend their road towards integration, but we should not be naive. this is not the last political anti-european provocation of the authorities. the prime minister of georgia, mr garibashvili, yesterday made an important statement. quote: ‘the european parliament would better take care of itself. 100 meps are involved in a corruption scandal. their desire was and is to involve georgia in the war and to destroy it together with ukraine.’ the kremlin should envy for such type of propaganda. but it does not lead to the candidate status. despite that, we shall continue to stand together with georgian people!
the kremlin is waging a war, a hybrid war, among other things. i have no doubt that this tension between sackartwell and the european union is also artificial. it is not producing any constructive result for either side. sakartvelos, despite all the current challenges, wants to be part of the european union, the population supports it and it is a member of nato. the controversial bill has been suspended, and the dialogue between the government and the citizens is taking place, albeit at a very high cost, but it is taking place, and further escalation would only benefit russia. we, the european union, must give sakharov more than an abstract european perspective. more financial and technical assistance is needed now to help counter new waves of destabilisation and, consequently, propaganda. and how to combat the influence of foreign agents - i mean russian spies - we have discussed many times in this house, so it is worth doing this effectively not only in sakharov, but in every country of the current european union. (the speaker refused to hear mick wallace's reply under the blue card procedure)
mr president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, the situation in moldova is indeed worrying. last week’s anti-western pro-russian demonstrations took place on the streets of chișinău, with the majority of the demonstrators shipped to the capital by buses. i hope moldovan law enforcement agents will determine how much it was a genuine expression of the anger about the economic situation and how much it was a deliberate campaign by russia to destabilise the situation in the country. but one thing is clear: if in the future we want a peaceful and prosperous europe, then the eu and our western partners need to get more involved in moldova now. we need to provide greater support to the moldovan people to deal with the economic hardship induced by russia’s war of aggression against ukraine. we need to provide human expertise and, if necessary, military resources to give moldova a means to defend its sovereignty and its pro-european path. and we need to confirm that moldova is welcome to join the eu as soon as it fulfils the accession criteria. and we should be ready to start accession negotiations with moldova this year.
mr president, it is very clear that kremlin is afraid of success of democracies in ukraine and moldova, because those successes can inspire russian people to seek the same democratic development in russia itself. that is why autocracy of kremlin started military aggression against ukraine and continuous hybrid aggression against moldova. kremlin is using oligarch prigozhin, who is spending dirty money to hire mercenaries of wagner group to attack bakhmut in ukraine. kremlin also is using pro-kremlin oligarch ilan shor in moldova, who is openly spending dirty money to hire protesters against maia sandu’s government in chișinău in order to destroy that government. we know how to help ukraine, which is facing kremlin military aggression: weapons, weapons and weapons. in order to help moldova against kremlin hybrid aggression, we need to use our most powerful geopolitical weapons: to start membership negotiations this year and implement ambitious integration, integration, integration. kremlin needs to know that they will be defeated in both cases: in ukraine and in moldova. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
blue-card reply. – well, first of all i know that the government of moldova is doing great reforms in order to become not only a candidate country but to start negotiations and to become a member of eu. that is not only in the interests of moldova, but also of us. and that is why we need to give all the support which is needed. and since moldova really is facing different challenges, including energy and budgetary ones. and as we have heard from the commissioner, the commission is supporting in such a way which is really very much needed for moldova. so i see all the possibilities to have success of moldova, both for moldovan people and for us.
the president, the commissioner and my colleagues! i'll admit, i'm a beekeeper myself, like my father, my grandfather and my great-grandfather. now, i'm making honey with the help of my children and grandchildren, and i'm very aware of the invaluable role that pollinators play in the environment, in agriculture, and even in family and cultural relationships. bees have always been highly respected and loved in lithuania. our most sacred friendship was strengthened by sharing bees. protecting bees is essential. we cannot allow them to die needlessly because of miscommunication between beekeepers and farmers, the use of inappropriate chemicals, we must protect them from new diseases and parasites. but today we're talking about protecting bees and farmers. and i want to emphasize that we also have to look at the situation of the farmers who produce our food and keep our countryside alive. if we limit the use of certain tools, such as synthetic pesticides or herbicides, we need to replace them with equally effective ones. these include new breeding and farming technologies, biological or organic pesticides. we need to ensure that scientific and technological innovation reaches farmers and is accessible to them. that all european farmers receive the same direct payments and then we can live in a more harmonious and healthy environment.
i really welcome your efforts to improve animal welfare, madam president, madam commissioner. i myself served on a special committee on animal transportation. in examining the conditions, we have actually seen a whole series of problems that exist, and i think that the balanced proposal for rights that you have put forward could really contribute to ensuring animal welfare in the transport of animals by both land and sea. you mentioned that it is very important to take account of the social, economic realities and also the implementation of the green path we have set out. but i want to ask a very specific question: we have animals, that is, fur animals, whose conditions of housing are also very important and very worrying. is the fur-bearing proposal in this package? do you have a separate package for fur animals?
madam president, dear colleagues, i would like to use this opportunity to remind us that on 17 march, two weeks ago, the international criminal court issued the arrest warrant to president putin for the war crime of the unlawful deportation of ukrainian children. let us congratulate the icc with this very important decision. ukraine really deserves international justice against the inhuman and criminal behaviour of putin’s regime. from another side, madam president, i would like to remind you that some time ago this house overwhelmingly supported the establishment of a special tribunal for the crime of war aggression, which is the mother of all the war crimes, and asked eu institutions to lead the international process for establishment of such a tribunal. we are still awaiting for the implementation of our political will on the creation of special tribunal and, madam president, we need your leadership for it to happen. madam president, there is one more related and urgent issue. in two days’ time, russia for the month of april will take a rotating presidency in the security council of the united nations. the question is very clear: can the war criminal head the united nations security council? democracies should boycott security council procedures while russia will be in the presidency and i would like to suggest that you should issue a special statement on behalf of all of us to support such an international boycott initiative.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, members of the commission. indeed, it is very important that the council has mentioned and reinforced support for ukraine and has highlighted the need to strengthen the competitiveness of european industry. i would like to emphasize one thing. it is very important that the defence industry can also be strengthened and that this competitiveness support is also linked to military mobility issues and links between different countries, and that the implementation of some projects is given priority, such as the transport project such as the rail baltica, which could improve military mobility and also our connection and support to ukraine. on another note, i would like to stress the need to increase pressure on the belarusian regime, which continues to torture political prisoners, which threatens with nuclear weapons and which also contributes to the deportation of russian children from ukraine. i therefore propose that this be brought to the attention of the public and that sanctions be increased against the belarusian regime, in order to release political prisoners and to save the lives of other political prisoners. those who are now in failing health, such as a. beliacci and others.
chairman, my colleagues. i invite you to look at the gender pay gap in rural areas. rural women in europe face many challenges. their access to funding is limited. they are hampered by poor rural infrastructure and by persistent gender disparities in agriculture. in europe, women's holdings are on average 40% smaller than men's, they earn 16% less and the gender pension gap is as high as 51%. we can rejoice that almost half of lithuania's farms are run by women. unfortunately, lithuanian women are paid less than western european women for the same work. the european union's commitments to equalise direct payments for new raw farmers and to end long-standing discrimination are still outstanding. we must therefore equalise direct payments to all farmers in the european union and ensure that the countryside is an attractive place for women farmers to work.
the president, the commissioner, the colleagues. deforestation is a growing global problem, and if left unaddressed, we will struggle to cope with biodiversity loss and climate change. we in europe are making a consistent effort in this fight and we cannot afford to have products on the european union market contribute to the destruction of forests - whether in the european union or anywhere else in the world. i hope that this week we will finally be able to vote on the regulation to combat deforestation. it should develop real tools to combat deforestation, forest degradation and reforestation. this is also true of our trading partners in countries where forests are particularly vulnerable, such as the amazon in brazil. however, the new requirements must be easy to implement in order to avoid creating a significant additional administrative burden for european businesses. for example, the requirement for geographical coordinates should be implemented with the necessary technical and financial support and clear guidance on how to do so. i also hope that, once the regulation is implemented, the list of goods requiring strict close scrutiny will be extended if necessary. eu producers must be guaranteed competitiveness and consumers the right to know whether the products they use do not contribute to deforestation.
mr president, dear colleagues, although we are late, we are finally getting to the point. the pandemic has woken europe up and the russian war has opened our eyes. we need for a strategy towards china. the right strategy requires the right assessment of the situation, and we got it from both key speakers today. thank you. russia and china have the same goal: to destroy the development of the democratic world, because democracy is a threat to both regimes. china’s aims are even greater: to take over as much of the world as possible. hence, the key principle of our strategy is the unity of democracies. we cannot repeat the same mistakes. i hope that we have learned the lessons from the dependence on russia. today, when we speak about security, we need to talk not about autonomy from the us, but about the common strategy for democracies and how to overcome autocracies and dictatorships. mr weber is right. taiwan is not just a us interest, president macron, this part of the chinese people – like hong kong as well – has proved that democracy is not a foreign idea to the chinese. china seeks to divide us. the most striking example is the former 17+1 china—cee cooperation format. the first step of the common strategy would be abandoning this format. i call for a long—term strategy towards russia and china that is not aimed at momentary benefits but focuses on sustainable peace and security on the european continent.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture. mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. the role of agriculture and rural development in achieving the union's objectives is of particular importance. we must address the impact of war on food security, and help farmers, especially small and young farmers, to cope with the threat of inflation. we also need to emphasise the importance of research and innovation in the agricultural sector and the need to bring the results of this research to the farm. more support for the cooperative sector and support for young farmers should be strengthened, the importance of the income support redistribution mechanism and the potential of farmers to combat climate change should be emphasised. we must also recognise that the ability of farmers to withstand inflationary pressures and higher raw material prices and to ensure food security is affected by differences in direct payments. this requires additional support for member states with the lowest levels of payments, especially as the eastern eu member states have been the most affected by the war in ukraine. we must finally resolve the issue of external convergence and equalize direct payments.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, dear colleagues, the horrifying crimes the russian regime is committing in ukraine are not new. this is history repeating itself once again. my mother was nine years old when stalin’s communists deported her and her family to siberia, just because her parents were teachers. only half the family returned. she could not have imagined that the deportations would return to the european continent in her eyes again. deportations returned because the crimes of the ussr were not condemned, the perpetrators never convicted internationally; they lied to the world until the fall of the ussr that they were deporting prostitutes and criminals and this was somehow justified. the same lies accompany the war against ukraine now. we have been repeating for a long time, ‘never again’. that is why the icc arrest warrant for putin is also a hope that this time the crimes will be evaluated so that the ‘never again’ will not remain just words. however, this warrant is only the beginning. those who behead prisoners will also be sentenced, and there must be a special tribunal for the crime of aggression against ukraine for putin and his regime. by the way, i invite everyone to save the date: 14 june here in strasbourg on the louise weiss agora, the parliament will commemorate forced soviet deportations by reading the names of those deported. we will also pay respect to victims of deportations from ukraine of today.
mr president, dear colleagues, it is so important that the icc issued an arrest warrant to president putin with suspicions in this terrible war crime of children deportations. not only the icc, but also a special tribunal for crime of war aggression should do its job of justice. for that reason, a special tribunal should be established without delay, and the eu needs to play a leading role in implementing what this parliament is demanding. putin and lukashenko also are perpetrating crimes against humanity when they are persecuting – in the most brutal ways – their domestic opponents. this is a conclusion of a recent report of the united nations human rights council. the crimes against humanity which russian and belarussian people are facing should be also investigated by the icc or a special tribunal. the consequences of the icc arrest warrant are clear. nobody in the west should go for the dialogue with a war criminal and nobody from business or political elite around the war criminal in the kremlin should expect an end of international isolation. justice is coming, mr putin.
the time has come, madam president, commissioner, colleagues, to update the european union's strategy for universal health, which is now more than ten years old. since then, we have experienced a lot of shocks and losses: the covid-19 pandemic, the spread of cancer and other chronic diseases have led us to take a more active approach to health. the european union has shown leadership during the pandemic, but the challenges are not diminishing. i support the strong focus in this strategy on factors for better health, such as digitalisation, research, capacity building, and i would particularly stress the importance of health registers, the need for the exchange of health data. the development of innovative treatments and diagnostics, including the development of new vaccines, is necessary. everyone deserves better access to essential healthcare and the focus on international cooperation in the new strategy is therefore welcome. global action is a must, but perhaps we should first of all narrow the gap between east and west in europe itself. after all, the european union still has a wide disparity in access to treatment and medicines. the european health union therefore needs to be more realistic, based on adequate resources.
author. – madam president, dear colleagues, there is no need to explain who vladimir kara-murza is and what the kremlin regime is doing with him when they put him into prison for 25 years because he was criticising the kremlin’s war against ukraine. i know kara—murza personally. i admired his fight for global magnitsky sanctions legislation, for democracy in russia, for a different, for a normal russia. with vladimir we were dreaming about such a different russia during our webinars of the forum of the friends of european russia. he decided not to leave russia. in the same way like navalny, yashin and others. he was twice poisoned. now we know that it is normal kremlin practice to poison its opponents. navalny suffered the same. both navalny and kara-murza are facing a rapid deterioration of their health condition. the regime would be very happy if they would simply die while in prison. boris nemtsov, whom i knew also personally, earlier was simply killed. the kremlin has waged two wars at the same time: a war of aggression against ukraine and a war of oppression against the russian people, against the opposition. we europeans, we are living in the xxi century with humans rights, the rule of law, democracy. putin is bringing russia back to the years of stalin, where instead of the rule of law, human rights or democracy there is only brutal persecution. here the question comes to us: can we stay only as silent watchers, who are able to make only traditional bureaucratic statements of concern and deep concern? kara-murza, navalny, yashin, sacrifice and suffering, should be the strongest argument for a new type of our strategic fight for the freedom of oppressed people – at least on the european continent in russia, in belarus. all the prosecutors, judges and others, responsible for inhuman detentions and tortures should be personally named by the european parliament and immediately included on the sanctions list. second – it’s clear that only sanctions are not stopping the regime and its henchmen. what they are perpetrating may amount to crimes against humanity, and such crimes should be investigated by the icc or a special tribunal. nothing will be forgotten, nothing will be forgiven.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, colleagues, as a collector i know that even the legal trade in cultural goods is increasingly profitable for traders. unfortunately, despite efforts to curb it, illicit trade is also on the rise. and one can only imagine the deep pain when entire nations are forced to watch helplessly as their cultural heritage is plundered. in ukraine, the looting of cultural property during russia's barbaric war is not only a brazen attempt by criminals to make a quick profit, but also a desire to destroy ukrainian identity and culture. this is one of the arguments that we're making to say that this is not just a war crime, but it's real terrorism. such actions are not only eroding the identity of a nation, a state, but also that of europe as a whole, of the whole civilized world. i hope that we will not be limited to the european parliament's resolution of 20 october 2022 on cultural solidarity with ukraine. the action plan on illicit trade in cultural property must lead to consistent, sustained action and offer real solutions to stop the illicit trade in cultural heritage and identify and hold the perpetrators to account.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear colleagues, yes, it is a historic day, even if this decision comes late. the stagnation of both eu and nato enlargements has left many countries in a grey zone, tempting authoritarians. but we can determine the future with our decisions today. the eu is finally returning to geopolitical leadership. my special congratulations go to ukraine, moldova and bosnia and herzegovina. but don’t forget, this decision comes through the blood of the ukrainian people. enlargement is first and foremost in our interest. enlargement is our only option to avoid future disasters. either there will be more of the european union on the european continent, or there will be more russia or china next to us. enlargement is our responsibility to future generations. it is the only way to achieve sustainable and lasting peace on the european continent. i would like to mention georgia. the european path of this country was saved by the georgian people. it is a message to russia as well: you will lose. today’s recommendation is a credit, not to the georgian government or georgian dream, because it is true that georgia is not on the same step as ukraine and moldova. and this is the biggest wrongdoing of the georgian government against the georgian people. dear colleagues, i would like to thank the commission and especially ursula von der leyen for her leadership and deep understanding of the existential momentum in this history of europe. let us do this job together.
madam president, well, dear colleagues, everybody today repeats that this is a historical day. but i will add, this is a historical day which will change europe. at the end of the road, there will be different not only ukraine and other applicant countries, but also different european union, and a difference in the whole european continent since ukraine’s membership in the eu will also change russia and belarus. ukraine, with its fight and its international status as icebreaker broke through eu enlargement stagnation. that is beneficial for all the accession countries, including western balkans, moldova and georgia. hopefully, ukraine also will bring back to the european union ambition to negotiate like it was done with central europe – three years – which means that the whole enlargement process can be finished before 2030. ukraine’s icebreaker is really needed for europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his support. first of all, i thank the commission for its detailed and geopolitical assessment. i would like to congratulate the people of ukraine and moldova on the positive assessment by the commission and the proposal to the council of the european union to formally open accession negotiations. this is a historic step that will be best seen in a few years. this is an important assessment of the efforts of ukraine and moldova to continue the reforms they have begun, even in the face of the ongoing bloody russian aggression. i also greet the people of bosnia and herzegovina and sakharov. i know that this reform process is not easy. my country, lithuania, experienced this transformation after liberation from the occupation of the soviet union. at the time, lithuania also had to undergo legal, economic and administrative reforms, fight corruption and organised crime. i believe that the people of ukraine and moldova will have such a motivation to reform, and in a few years we will see these countries as full members of the european union, but we must also reform the internal eu.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, dear colleagues, today, more than ever, europe and the united states share a common mission. together, we need to overcome the axis of evil that has already caused two wars in our neighbourhood. this axis of evil, with terrorists russia and iran at its core, seeks to destroy democracies and take away people’s freedoms. the eu and the us are capable of acting together strategically. we need to be united not only in a military nato alliance; we also need a kind of economic nato, by reviving the idea of ttip (transatlantic trade and investment partnership). we must not only agree on the response to russia and iran; we both face the same complex challenge of china. there is no alternative to a strategic partnership between the us and the eu. i fully agree with ursula von der leyen as she said in her speech in the hudson institute last month – i quote: ‘what europe and the united states are fighting for together is about freedom and democracy.’
the president, my fellow members, honourable commissioner, i agree that biodiversity needs to be protected and climate change must be curbed. but when it comes to pesticide restrictions, we have to remember that they don't just spray fields. since the introduction of pesticides, the production of basic cereals has more than tripled. i also agree that pesticides should be restricted, but that farmers should be given the opportunity to protect their crops through other means. first, any requirements to reduce pesticide use must be correct. as colleagues have already mentioned, in particular, their use differs significantly in european countries. this must be taken into account and farmers who already use ten times less pesticides should not be excluded. for example, in my country, lithuania, new genomic technologies such as gene editing could provide more opportunities and allow for the cultivation of crops that are resistant to disease, environmental conditions, climate change and pests and can grow at lower agricultural costs. at the same time, we will preserve the diversity of nature, pollinate bees, and have healthy food.
commissioner, really, it is good to see you, but the problems we know very well. the eu is not delivering what it promised, 1 million shells are not here. my question will be very simple. you know, the eu economy is ten times stronger or bigger than the russian economy – maybe more. so why are we not able to produce enough weapons for ukraine? what is missing? do you agree that political will is the biggest problem on the eu side? and do you have the plans how the eu will really start to produce what it promised, either investing into military production on the eu side or in production on ukraine? for example, even drones can be produced in ukraine. so what is the plan?
commissioner, things are moving, but ukraine is not able to achieve the victory immediately and it depends on our deliveries. that’s very clear. second, really, you know, of course, this is not only your responsibility. it’s good that, you know, production capacities are increasing, but can we look into possibilities really that, you know, the eu will start to invest, for example, into drones production in ukraine because general zaluzhnyi recently has said that, you know, what is missing really is electronics, drones, antidrones, and things like that. and that is what ukrainians can produce. so i have the sense that you are not, you know, keeping money in your pocket.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, dear colleagues, i have the feeling that we see the world too simplistically when we divide ourselves into either pro-israel or pro-palestinian, and when many are repeating ‘two-state solution’. but this mantra will not work unless there is a fundamental agreement among israel’s neighbours that hamas must not happen again, that the jewish state has the right to exist. i was shocked when, after the bloody attack by hamas, we saw the celebration in gaza – and not only gaza squares. as long as hamas exists, it is difficult for me to believe in the success of the two-state solution. hamas must be destroyed. that must be the task of the entire democratic community. hamas, isis, al-qaeda are the same. the same cancer. they will be reborn again and again until the cause of the cancer is isolated, including terrorist states such as iran or russia. we have two wars of a similar nature in both neighbourhoods of european union. both are aimed at destroying democratic states: israel and ukraine. so many people are suffering. europe’s future security and long-lasting peace depend on our response. the challenge is clear: democracies must win.
mr president, dear colleagues, today we are celebrating 30th anniversary of the eu decision on copenhagen criteria, which was also a strategic signal that central europe and baltic states are invited to join the european union. what is the difference in between of then and now? at that time we in the central europe and baltics were quite chaotic, not very stable, post-totalitarian democracies. eu was prudent and brave enough in copenhagen to offer us a perspective to join eu, and in that way it stabilised us and modernised us. eu enlargement is the most effective instrument to transform eu neighbourhood into stable and successful democracies. at that time our economies were less than 30% of eu average. now we are reaching eu level and we are overcoming some economies of the old europe. at that time, eu was unfortunately not brave enough to offer the same perspective for ukraine, moldova and georgia, and that is the reason why those countries were left behind in their development and lost almost all those 30 years. after the first wave of enlargement into central europe, eu declared that it ‘lost appetite’ for further enlargement, including into western balkans and ukraine, and that was the biggest geopolitical mistake of eu, because that led to russia’s war against ukraine. now it’s time for eu to come back to the geopolitical prudence and bravery like it was done in copenhagen. from now on, negotiations with accession countries should continue for three or four years, like it was in our case, and let us be ready in 2030 to celebrate new members of eu – western balkans, ukraine, moldova and georgia.
the honourable prime minister, the honourable commissioner. we all know that special services must have the tools to block hostile activities. however, these instruments cannot be used against their nationals in the persecution of political opponents, journalists, and the european parliament therefore calls on the members of the commission, the president and the commission to adopt legislation which could ensure that our journalists, political actors can express their views in their country and that they have the right to privacy within their own country, and that these serious, good instruments which are directed against hostile forces are not used in the persecution of their country's political opponents and journalists. the ball is therefore on your side, mr commissioner, and we will wait for the commission's proposals in the european parliament.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. my dear colleagues, i raise bees myself, like my father, grandfather and grandfather. now, with the help of my children and grandchildren, i can see the invaluable value of honey bees to the environment, to agriculture, and even to family and cultural ties. in lithuania, bees have always been highly respected and loved. sharing bees strengthens our most sacred bond of friendship. the protection of wild pollinators and bees is essential and they must not be allowed to die unnecessarily due to the non-communication of beekeepers and farmers. we must protect them from new diseases and parasites, but we must also pay attention to the situation of farmers who grow our food and ensure the viability of the countryside. by limiting the use of certain tools, such as pesticides and herbicides, we must provide them with at least some of the most effective means. the latest genomic technologies, such as gene editing, can offer many possibilities, allowing plants to grow more resistant to disease, environmental conditions, climate change and pests. this leads to more resilient and sustainable agricultural and food systems, contributes to the green path. we must ensure that scientific and technological innovations reach farmers and are accessible and affordable. and so, using rational farming and science, we're going to have a healthy environment, healthy pollinators, and healthy food.
the president, the commissioner, my colleagues. in my opinion, the commission is not going to be able to take any further action. firstly, the security: taiwan is a democracy, one of the few in the region, and this leads to a geopolitical partnership between the european union and taiwan. in the face of russia's aggressive war on ukraine, taiwan is committed to supporting ukraine and intends to coordinate sanctions against russia. i also intend to develop cooperation for economic security by securing strategic material and technological chains. in the fight against economic violence, taiwan has already made history. when my representative lithuania opened a taiwanese embassy, we were in a state we call china. lithuania has since strengthened its economic cooperation with taiwan. and by adopting the economic violence prevention regulation, we sent a convincing deterrent signal to china and the rest of the world for the future. i therefore support the conclusion of formal bilateral agreements on trade and investment, including security, and the continued support of taiwan for its representation in multilateral international fora. and i thank colleague jules for the well-written resolution.
the president, the commissioner, my colleagues. in the three years since the european parliament's resolution on the right to withdraw its vote, the argument that legislation is necessary in this area has only intensified. remote work has become a routine practice. in addition to the advantages it provides, it is necessary to take into account the problems arising and to propose legal frameworks for their resolution. on the one hand, remote work provides a great deal of flexibility for both employers and employees in the formulation and execution of tasks. on the other hand, employers' expectations that the employee will be available at any time are established, and this often and sometimes systematically, involving infringements of the rights of workers, involving a reaction to their private lives, can have a negative impact on health. accurate recording of working time is not easy and is also difficult to regulate legally. if it were, it would increase the burden of bureaucracy. however, a clear line must be drawn between private and professional life. i believe that setting working time limits, while leaving some flexibility, will ultimately have a positive effect on the wellbeing of the worker and on the discipline of the workplace and lead to a positive final result. in my view, therefore, the commission should immediately initiate a legislative act laying down minimum obligations relating to distance work and the right of workers to disconnect throughout the european union.
the president, the commissioner, my colleagues. despite the ongoing aggressive russian war, the democratic ukrainian government is deliberately and sincerely preparing for negotiations on european union membership, preparing to transpose european environmental law into national law. nevertheless, the environmental damage caused by the russian war is increasing day by day. i feel the minimum estimate is 60 billion. mining fields, pollution caused by the destruction of energy infrastructure, destruction of pesticide storage facilities, explosion of the kachovka hydroelectric power plant and irreparable damage to biodiversity, pollution of air, water, soil and the continuing threat of nuclear power accidents. it is not possible to quickly repair the damage caused by the species alone, and we will need to find ways to repair it. this is not a casual consequence of war, but a deliberate crime. russia will have to pay all the damage done and its actions must be subject to, inter alia, the expiry of the ecocide deadline.
madam president, everyone says that this week is about ukraine. yes, but it is actually even more about us – the european union. at every single meeting, my lithuanian constituents ask me the same question: what happened to the hungarians? who is orban working for? putin? and why is the eu doing nothing to stop him? can you not see how the eu is being destroyed from within? ‘we do see”, i say. unfortunately, the instruments to stop him are too weak. this answer is disappointing because the people want an effective eu. it cannot go on like this. if we continue to allow putin to destroy not only ukraine but also the eu, we will face existential tests. i still hope that this week will not be even more disappointing. i do not believe that the hungarian nation, which has been a model for everyone since 1956, wants russia to win. i appeal to the commission, to the leaders of the council. let’s start the procedure to suspsend the voting rights of hungary. our lawyers must find legal ways how to stop the destruction from both - outside and inside. rule of law must protect the eu as a structure. long live europe!
madam president, tomorrow positive decision on enlargement and on ukraine will change the future of the whole european continent. but if viktor orban will decide to veto the council decision on enlargement and on beginning of negotiations with ukraine, that will be a betrayal. betrayal vulgaris. it will be a betrayal of ukraine, of the people who are killed while defending their country and the whole europe who are defending their pro-european choice. it will be a betrayal of ukrainian hungarian minority, which is united in asking viktor orban to support decision to start negotiations with ukraine. it will be betrayal of western balkans because this is ukraine, which is playing the role of ice breaker, of the historical stagnation of the enlargement process which the western balkans were the first victim of. it will be a betrayal of the whole of europe. betrayal is not a nice moment to witness, but at the end it will make us stronger. mr orban, you will not win against the whole europe and you will not win against ukraine.
the author. the president, member of the commission, mr president. the information from political prisoners cannot continue. we must increase the pressure on the belarusian regime to release all political prisoners. we must demand that all detainees' conditions of detention comply with international and national laws which clearly underline that detainees have the right to contact their lawyers and family members. it's totally unacceptable that we've been unaware of anything about michael statkevich for over three hundred days, and there are dozens or hundreds of other political prisoners in a similar situation. the european union must adopt a new package of sanctions for the lukashenko regime for serious human rights violations, including all those who commit these crimes. i also call for the possibility of establishing a special international fund for the support of political prisoners to assist political prisoners released from belarus and their families.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear colleagues, let me first of all say that any kind of blockade of border-crossing roads and of solidarity lanes to ukraine is totally unacceptable and unjustifiable. such a blockade, what we see now, is heavily detrimental to ukraine’s economy, to its capabilities to defend itself, to its possibilities to have an efficient delivery of much-needed humanitarian aid. a 60-km-long queue of 2 100 lorries is not what eu or poland should provide to ukraine as a symbol of our solidarity. ukraine is fighting the russian invasion and is defending the whole of europe, but at the same time is facing two blockades from two sides: from the russian side a military blockade of its black sea ports; and from some eu member states a blockade of the border-crossing roads. such a situation is completely unacceptable. it denigrates and severely damages the reputation not only of poland, but also of the european union as a whole, and it serves only the interests of the kremlin. it is clear that russia will be forced to pay the damages which russia has inflicted on ukraine’s economy, including by the blockade of its seaports. that is why organisers of the recent border road blockades should also know that it will be legitimate that they will have to compensate ukraine the losses caused by their blockade. at a time of russia’s war against ukraine, any additional damage to ukraine’s economy inflicted from the side of eu member states is totally unacceptable, and no economic arguments can justify such infamous actions. as members of the european parliament, we cannot remain silent bystanders when the most important european value of solidarity, of solidarity with ukraine, is being damaged by our european business companies, and we shall not remain silent also in the future.
in the name of the s&d faction. the president, member of the commission, mr president. the european union and european solidarity corridors have been helping ukraine's goods reach the global market since mid-2022, providing ukraine with the necessary means to meet the needs of the country's people and to fight russian aggression. well, commissioner, unfortunately, this system has been disrupted since november. the blockade of almost all polish carriers at the ukrainian border, and disruptions at the slovak border crossing points prevent the ukrainian people struggling to reach the necessary goods. the expiry of the fast-moving commodities. thousands of ukrainian carriers and volunteers have been waiting in line for weeks without any inconvenience. blocking the border with russian aggression against a fighting country is a blow below the line. i call on the european commission and the council to assess the situation urgently and to propose effective solutions. the blockade of the ukrainian border is most beneficial to the russian regime. i hope that the new polish government, together with the commission and the council, will be able to resolve this problem successfully as soon as possible. the ukraine is blessed!
