mr president, dear colleagues, it is very unfortunate that the parliament’s reports are getting based more and more on political stereotypes rather than on facts and evidence. for example, point 69 of the security and defence reports, i quote, ‘brings attention to serbia’s relationship with russia and its lack of condemnation of russia’s unjustified and illegitimate actions against ukraine’. here, i would just like to remind you, colleagues, that serbia has signed all un resolutions condemning the illegal and unjustified attack of russia against ukraine. serbia is also strongly advocating territorial integrity of ukraine as one of the basic principles of international law. and serbia was also one of the first countries to refute the results of the referendum held in the four regions of ukraine. in addition, all these facts have already been recognised in recent european parliament resolutions. so this text will contravene them as well. dear colleagues, facts and consistency should matter even here in the european parliament.
now i must give a short statement. normally, and i will inform you again, only people who are present for all of the debate have the right to be part of the catch-the-eye. our next speaker was not here for all of the debate, but he was here for a majority of the time. that is the reason why i give you the floor, but next time please be present for the whole of the debate.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, your speeches have been many and very interesting, which shows the wide ideological spectrum in this parliament, because on almost all issues we have heard radically opposite positions. mr president, in view of the number and variety of speeches i have had the honour of hearing, i would ask you to allow me to speak a little longer than the five minutes i have been granted, especially as i am one of the few people who have been present throughout the debate, which i have followed with great interest. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i must thank the rapporteurs, mr mcallister and mr vandenkendelaere, for their work. thank you for your contribution and all of you for your contributions. among the many subjects discussed, though perhaps not the most discussed, was iran, and i cannot close this debate without making a reference to this situation. we will see many challenges, but iran is one of the toughest. the brutal repression of the protesters and the use of the death penalty is something we consider unacceptable, as is the military support for russia in its aggression against ukraine. i have personally conveyed this message to my iranian counterparts on several occasions; they deny that weapons are actually being delivered to russia, but i think the reality is stubborn and, on the basis of that reality, we have adopted five packages of restrictive measures, three on the basis of human rights violations and two on the basis of the delivery of drones to russia. but i think that, despite that, we must preserve the channels of communication with regard to the nuclear agreement, the famous jcpoa, which is a separate issue, and i think that every effort must be made to prevent iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. and i know of no better way to do that than the icpd. ladies and gentlemen, as i said, your speeches have been rich and varied and, without wishing to intervene in your internal political debates, i think there is something we cannot accept in this house, namely that some political party does not deserve to be voted for. i think we should let the voters decide how to use their vote and which political party they want to vote for. and that's what makes the richness and the variety of political representation that sits here. i would also like to thank you for the fact that this report expressly expresses broad support for the role of the high representative and for the building of a common foreign and security policy; for your call for more resources and capacity for the european external action service, which certainly needs them; for your support for the development of a genuine european diplomatic school, as we are doing. i hope i can live up to your demands. and i also want to say that some of you have painted a picture of europe, of what it is and what you think it is meant to be, which does not correspond to reality. we are not seeking to build the 'european army' in the singular. the european armies will remain there as representatives of the sovereignty of the member states, which remain competent in matters of defence. our aim is much more modest but important, which is to achieve interoperability of the military capabilities of the member states so that each one's resources are multiplied in a coordinated and compatible effort. there are many of his claims that are impossible to refute. like when someone says, "be reasonable". well, of course. we have to be reasonable. i do not think anyone comes to this house to say that we must not be reasonable. i'm sure you do. but what does it mean to be reasonable? like others who say we all want a just world. i don't think anyone comes to this house to ask for an unjust world. of course, we all want a just world. the small problem is to define what a just world is and what being reasonable is. is it reasonable to ask for more powerful weapons such as the famous leopard tanks to be delivered to ukraine? or is that not reasonable? where does reason and unreason begin and end? that should be the real debate. and here i have heard voices calling for yes, for arms to be given to ukraine so that it can continue to defend itself, and voices saying no, that such a thing should not be done, because we risk escalating the conflict. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that it is europe's honour to help ukraine militarily to defend itself against the aggression it is suffering. and i, as the high representative, want to say here once again that i have devoted a lot of effort to making this possible, to building the unity of the countries, of the member states of the union, around decisions which have enabled ukraine to resist. and that they should allow him to continue to resist the brutal attacks he is suffering. and i believe that it will continue to be europe's honour to help that country, not only militarily but also economically and financially. and, if it seems reasonable or unreasonable to you, let me say that if you add up the amount of financial, economic and military aid that europe has given to ukraine, directly from the european institutions or through the member states, we are approaching 50 billion euros, which puts us first among countries or groups of countries in terms of the amount of aid we have given to ukraine, even above the united states. this is the reality of the figures. i don't know if that seems reasonable to you or not, but to me it still doesn't seem enough. and it will not be as long as ukraine continues to be systematically destroyed by the army of the russian federation. we must continue to help that country, not just militarily, and we must keep the door open to a diplomatic solution to the conflict, of course. but to make peace, it takes two. to make war, one is enough. and europe has to understand, and i think that is the definition of a geopolitical europe, that it is not only necessary to be a commercial power that defends human rights, the rule of law. it's not enough. it's not enough to be a soft power. we must also transfer to our foreign policy the ability to use what is called hard power, without that necessarily being military. that is, the ability to influence with our restrictive forces the behaviour of others, because others do not always prefer the norm to force. that is what the european union is all about: the preference of the rule over force. and that's what's enabled him to build an era of peace like we've never had before. but unfortunately, we live in a world where not everyone thinks alike and some prefer force over norm. and, in the face of them, we must have the capacity to respond. that is why i am not renouncing the kantian ideal of europe, nor am i renouncing the liberal heritage which this european union represents. we will always prefer the peaceful resolution of conflicts. we will always prefer the rule to govern world affairs. but we must be prepared to face a world that is not as we would like it to be.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i shall not even attempt to summarize in the foreword the debate we have had this afternoon and this evening. i should like to say that i have heard very good contributions from many colleagues. i also want to say that i found and still find some of the speeches made by the far left and far right of this parliament extremely strange. i would like to underline all that the high representative and vice-president josep borrell has just said. and i think it is important that we try to provide a high level of consensus between the constructive groups in the european parliament, both in european foreign policy and in european security and defence policy, on which mr vandenkendelaere has presented the report. i want to say again at this point: we had really good shadow reporter meetings, worked through many, many proposals and ended up with a good piece of work together. we now have at least 91 amendments to my report which have been tabled at the last minute. that's a relatively high number. we all have to vote on that now. i hope, however, that we will maintain this high degree of cohesion and unity in parliament on fundamental questions of european foreign, security and defence policy, and that we will then give our high representative and vice-president the parliamentary support that is required. i would like to thank josep borrell very much for being with us throughout the debate on this in the chamber.
the rapporteur. mr president, i too have listened with great attention and interest to all the speeches in this debate, and they have made it very clear that an ambitious european security and defence policy may not convince everyone here, but that there is more than enough political support in this hemisphere. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i think the debate has shown some controversy here and there, but certainly also consensus and has strengthened my conviction that we can do more and better in the field of european defence. we're working on that, too. not only the high representative, but also colleagues have referred to the strategic compass which we have really used in the right way, in the right place and at the right time and which is actually a very effective policy instrument. but many colleagues have already said: the ultimate test for all of us, of course, remains the war in ukraine, and that has been said many times here today. many of our ambitions will be measured precisely by how we continue to deal with this confrontation. along with, of course, the new fact of hybrid threats that are part of russian aggression, but actually go beyond that russian aggression. think about how we sometimes talk about china's growing assertiveness. i would like to conclude with four conclusions - tasks, so to speak, for all of us. firstly, if we are ambitious and want to continue in the future to reduce our dependence on third countries, we must always keep in mind cooperation with allies. secondly, we must invest in our capacity and our coordination of our efforts as europeans together, even if that means that member states have to make budgetary efforts to do so. thirdly, we must, as europeans, maintain our unity and solidarity with our partners and allies. and fourthly - and lastly - we must above all carry out with determination everything we plan and decide together. i thank you for this debate and look forward to the vote tomorrow.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 18 january 2023.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs isabel wiseler-lima, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy in this area annual report 2022 (2022/2049 (ini)) (a9-0298/2022).
i'm the reporter. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we present the european parliament's annual report on the state of democracy and human rights in the world, let me begin with a few positive remarks, thinking of all those women and men who, everywhere in the world, are giving their all to the defence of democracy and the defence of human rights. their dedication and self-sacrifice inspire and encourage us. the risk of their lives for freedom and dignity should give us a measure of the values we stand for. in this document, parliament reiterates the european union's commitment to fundamental values, the rule of law, democracy and human rights. it underlines what we are doing to support democracy and human rights and above all reaffirms the universality of human rights, those rights that seek to protect human dignity, just as it reaffirms our unconditional choice of democracy. we reject the speeches which today seek to denigrate democracy, to portray it as ineffective and undesirable, inferior to authoritarianism, and we refer them to the unprecedented number of people around the world who are prepared to sacrifice themselves for democracy and the freedom it entails. the report also provides new ways of making our positions and actions more effective in defending human rights and democracy. if i thought it necessary to reiterate these evidences and to speak of courage, it is because the state of democracy in the world is worrying and the evolution underway is even more so. countries that are leaning towards authoritarianism are twice as many as those moving towards more democracy. even long-established democracies, as we have seen unfortunately, are not immune. it is therefore necessary to have a real awareness of the global atmosphere, where there is a widespread propaganda of lies and misinformation, which is conducive to populism and endangers our democracies. we must take full account of the challenges that lie ahead of us in these conditions. we must make the fight against disinformation a top priority in defence and democracy. because if democracies do not win the battle of information, of freedom of expression, if we do not guarantee a place for an independent and successful journalism, we will not win against the interference of authoritarian countries at home and elsewhere in the world. freedom of the press is an indispensable condition for democracy. yet, it is under constant attack. the oppression of journalists is therefore one of the many issues addressed in this report. the situation of women in the world is also deteriorating. the covid crisis, food insecurity, further exacerbated by the war against ukraine, are affecting women severely, as well as children who have been excluded from school. and many women and children have been severely affected by domestic violence. populism on the rise is a fertile ground for intolerance, xenophobia, racism and discrimination. the importance of education in this context is self-evident. finally, i would like to conclude on the illegal, unprovoked and unjustified war of aggression being waged by russia against ukraine. it seemed to me necessary that in this 2022 report of the european parliament the atrocities committed on ukrainian soil, right on our doorstep, should be condemned and that the union's solidarity should be reaffirmed. i would like to thank my colleagues, the fictitious rapporteurs, their teams and those of the political groups, as well as my own team, very sincerely. only exemplary cooperation and mutual respect have allowed us to achieve this result.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank again the rapporteur and the contributors to the ep report for noting the efforts and initiatives of the european union in the area of human rights and democracy. indeed, we do a lot as the eu – often more than what we get credit for. but it is also clear that we must continue enhancing and improving our action. recognising that the global human rights, democracy and humanitarian situation is worsening across the world, we must be determined in the defence of their universality. as your report stresses, our efforts need to be results-oriented and all dialogues with third countries represent one of the most important tools and opportunities to focus on human rights challenges and calls for them to be respected, including with relation to individual cases. these dialogues are indeed not a standalone tool. the eu will continue to use all other instruments at our disposal, including sanctions, to reinforce our messages where necessary. the european parliament is a crucial ally in our endeavours, including through your parliamentary diplomacy activities. madame la présidente, je ne vais pas revenir sur chacun des cas et situations évoqués mais, simplement pour donner l’exemple du haut-karabakh évoqué à plusieurs reprises, il y aura demain dans cette assemblée un débat dédié au haut-karabakh avec une prise de position du haut-représentant. donc je pense que le débat aura clairement lieu. je voudrais simplement ajouter qu’effectivement, comme cela a été dit aussi, pour être crédible dans l’ensemble des actions que nous entreprenons à travers le monde, il faut mener aussi des actions à l’intérieur de l’union européenne. c’est ce que nous faisons en utilisant tous les instruments à notre disposition, depuis le rapport sur l’état de droit en passant par la conditionnalité et jusqu’aux procédures en infraction que nous introduisons devant la cour de justice. je crois qu’effectivement, le message qui est orienté vers le reste du monde doit passer aussi par une préoccupation majeure pour les mêmes thèmes à l’intérieur de l’union européenne.
i'm the reporter. madam president, first of all, i would like to thank you for the debate. but in view of some of the statements, i would like to reiterate that i am proud to be the rapporteur of a text which, here in parliament, reaffirms the dignity of every human being, the right to be who we are, to love who we love and to believe or not to believe. i would like to thank my colleagues for this text which we have been able to produce in this way. some totalitarian regimes also seek to change the very definition of human rights at international level. i must say that i am rather saddened that they have found a relay for this in this parliament. then i also heard the other guys say, "this is not right", and they said, "we're looking at the wrong thing elsewhere". it's a way of diverting conversation that is excessively unpleasant. finally, i would like to thank commissioner reynders again for all he has said and for the commission's action. and i must say that i am particularly pleased that the european union's global sanctions regime, which has been requested on many occasions by parliament, has come into being. two points, if i may, i believe can really increase its effectiveness. first, the request, already made by another colleague, to add corruption. secondly, qualified majority voting, which would be very welcome in the area of sanctions when it comes to human rights. thank you again to all the colleagues, it was a pleasure to work with them.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, violence against women is a form of human rights violation that persists everywhere, including in the european union. one in three women in the eu has been a victim of physical, sexual or both. more than half of the women have been sexually harassed at least once since the age of 15. it is essential that we speak with one voice against this scourge, which knows no borders. it is time to move from words to action by ratifying the istanbul convention. this instrument will enable us to create a coherent european legal framework that protects victims and punishes perpetrators, affirming that we have zero tolerance for gender-based violence in europe.
madam president, the istanbul convention is a key instrument in the fight against violence against women and girls and domestic violence. the first is to prevent such violence, but also to eliminate the impunity which too often empowers the perpetrators. there is a huge amount of work to be done to raise awareness among people who are able to help. the victim must be listened to with empathy, the victim must be protected as soon as he or she speaks, and the perpetrator must be prosecuted effectively. because when the victim fears that she will not be taken seriously, when she fears that she will not be protected, when she often fears for her life, when she fears that the only consequences of her reporting are that she will be punished by her tormentor, the vicious circle is never broken. the european union has signed the istanbul convention but has not ratified it. twenty-one countries of the european union have signed and ratified the istanbul convention. the remaining six countries have also signed but not ratified it, and they oppose ratification at european level. article 2 of our treaty obliges us, even beyond obvious moral considerations, to sign this convention. a qualified majority vote in the council is sufficient, and it allows the european union to move forward. let us therefore ratify the istanbul convention!
this is a debate about human rights defenders.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the truth is that we often talk about respect for human rights, but the implementation of the eu guidelines on human rights defenders is often not a priority when we talk about business. the european union is reinforcing investments which often have a negative impact on the territory, the environment, the rights of communities and, in particular, on human rights organisations. on january 17, antonio díaz valencia and ricardo arturo lagunes, two mexican environmental defenders who were providing legal support to a community affected by a mining project owned by a european company, disappeared. despite the seriousness of the case, the european union has not issued any public condemnation of it. also in january, two guapinol leaders were killed, and currently six others are being victimized in a second attempt at judicial persecution. this parliament has denied that we have a human rights emergency on this case; and unfortunately these are not isolated cases. the application of such instruments should be mandatory and trade and cooperation policies should be strictly conditional on binding human rights mechanisms, otherwise we end up filling documents with good words, which we only comply with if our commercial or geostrategic interests are not affected. and that, my lord, is called hypocrisy. let us hope that this report will begin to change this situation.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, hannah neumann, for her excellent report. it was needed, vital and principled, in its analysis and recommendations. but the proposed team europe will have to know how to answer uncomfortable questions that might be addressed to them. for example: how can there be a guarantee for human rights defenders if states like spain disobey the european court of human rights and do not apply 61% of its court rulings? how can there be a guarantee if states like spain commit arbitrary detentions? how can there be a guarantee if activists from organisations that defend human rights are illegally spied on in european states, including spain? so ending double standards will be also a very effective way to support, protect and strengthen human rights defenders.
madam president, madam commissioner, dear rapporteur, in a world where authoritarian regimes are developing in a worrying way, human rights defenders play an absolutely essential role in promoting human rights, democracy and the rule of law. in this sense, they are true allies of the european union. we have a responsibility to protect and support them in their activities to defend democracy. it is difficult to imagine what many human rights defenders, but also their relatives, families and friends, endured, harassed, imprisoned, tortured and sometimes even murdered. these lawyers, journalists, politicians, members of organisations, but also ordinary citizens often put their safety, if not their lives, at risk to defend the values we believe in. so when they are at risk of imprisonment, when their lives are threatened, we have to facilitate their urgent relocation and access to a visa. moreover, we must also fight impunity for those who persecute human rights defenders. because we cannot tolerate that committed people who organize protests or defend their ancestral lands or simply document human rights violations are persecuted. the european union's global human rights sanctions regime, our magnitsky act, allows us to target serious human rights violations and abuses around the world. we must use it against the guilty. i would like to conclude by saying again that these men and women are fighting for the most basic of rights: human rights. they're fighting an injustice. their situation is unacceptable and we owe them a great deal. we owe them a lot.
good morning, we have with us today the prime minister of luxembourg, xavier bettel. prime minister, dear xavier, welcome to the european parliament, and thank you for accepting our invitation to be part of our ‘this is europe’ series of debates. i take this opportunity to thank you and the people of luxembourg for your steadfast belief in europe and your resounding commitment to our shared values; for your leadership in pushing our project forward; and for showing that the limitations of geography are no limit to the potential of a people. we will not forget your unwavering support for ukraine, for welcoming displaced ukrainians to your homes, schools and communes and for earmarking almost one fifth of your defence budget to help ukraine defend itself against the russian invasion. allow me to praise you, prime minister, for your strong position on holding perpetrators of war crimes to justice. the european parliament will always push for peace – a real peace, with justice and accountability. and we know that for there to be a peace, there must be a ukraine. as your government said in a statement earlier this year, luxembourg ‘will never resign itself to a world in which force prevails over law’. and that is why we have also been able to count on luxembourg to show firm support for ukraine on its path to eu membership. for this, prime minister, and for so much more, i would like to thank you and assure you that this parliament will continue to stand for these causes and for our common values with luxembourg and with you.
prime minister of luxembourg. madam president, dear members of the european parliament, i must tell you that it is a great honour to be with you once again in this house. i really want to thank the president for inviting me. and i also thank the commission for being here this morning, and especially someone i know well. this is the third time in five years that i've spoken before your assembly. and i must tell you that for me this assembly is the epicentre of european democracy, and my country has been proud to host its general secretariat for over 70 years now. when i had the opportunity to address you here in 2018 in a similar debate, it seemed to many of us that the european union had just entered a period of doubt, which could be described as 'almost existential', or at least internal questions about its immediate future. the euro crisis and the period of intense migration pressure in 2015 had created very, very significant divisions within the member states, but also within your own assembly. the outcome of the 2016 referendum in the uk and the rise of xenophobic and identity-based currents in a number of member states have even led some to announce that this is the end of the european union, that we are going to go backwards, that brexit is only the first and others will follow, that we are incapable of acting and that we are all at risk of an implosion of our european union. and i have to tell you that five years later, i find the opposite - and i'm very happy about that. the european union has had historical crises, and it is true that each time we tend to say that it is even worse than before. but we have seen, in the last five years, crises even more intense than the one in 2018. and we've shown that we're up to the challenge. i must also say to you, madam president, that your institution has assumed its crucial role in the institutional machinery of the european union more than ever. in the aftermath of brexit, we stood in solidarity with ireland and united to preserve the integrity of our internal market. in the face of covid-19 and we had some difficulties, i admit, at the beginning , we managed to keep the free movement of citizens and goods and tried to limit the damage. and i know what i'm talking about, with 200,000 border workers working in the grand duchy of luxembourg - and i said it earlier at the press conference - a country where, if we had closed the borders, i would not have had staff in the hospitals, people would have died one after another. and it was a reflex. we saw the tension. some thought that closing the borders would stop the virus. may they have a good life. we have seen that this is not the case. we have also seen that we have succeeded as the european union in having contracts. so we can argue, one or the other has their position, but imagine if we had left the vaccines on the open market. i can tell you, i admit, budgetarily, luxembourg could have bought 600,000 vaccines. but how would we have explained to other members of the european union that because they don't have the means, well covid-19, for them, it's not luck. and it is thanks to the commission, thanks to this joint purchase, that we have managed to distribute these vaccines in an equitable way and that on the same day, whether you are bulgarian, romanian, luxembourgish, maltese or irish, you have had the chance to be vaccinated. this is europe. and yet, it is too easily forgotten. (applause) i would like to thank we also managed a joint debt issue to finance the post-covid-19 recovery through the nextgenerationeu programme. and i have to say, without the help of your parliament, we might not have succeeded in having a conditionality mechanism that also links the european budget and the recovery plans to respect for the rule of law in the member states. moreover, our unity in the face of the war in ukraine - in the political, economic, sanctions, humanitarian and military aid, but also in the reception of refugees - has shown that the european union is also a credible geopolitical actor. in the face of the dual climate and energy crisis - which too often tends to be 'forgotten' - we have also managed to reduce our consumption significantly while accelerating the transition to an energy system based mainly on renewable energy. it is not just a moral and environmental imperative; it is an economic necessity, but also a geopolitical one, and the legacy we want to leave for future generations. if some people think it's a flood, don't do anything. but if we are to leave the quality of life we enjoy today to future generations, it is high time we acted. and i have to thank you, madam president, also for the leadership of your assembly, precisely in this debate and this will to fight climate change. you are elected by the citizens, you represent the citizens. and very often, we get the impression that citizens are more cold-blooded than we are, when this is not true. i have just presented, with our ministers for the environment, energy and the economy, on monday, the results of a public consultation we conducted with 100 citizens. these 100 citizens have put forward proposals, many of which are reflected in the national plan - the necp, as we call it in our country - for energy and climate, which will be given to the european commission. and believe me, our citizens go further than we imagine and than we dare. citizens also expect us to meet their expectations. so it was no longer top-down, ideas came from below, precisely to influence politics. from time to time, we fear our citizens. don't find out about them every five years at the election. do not be afraid of contact, do not be afraid to consult them. even if we are elected, even if we are in a parliamentary representation, let your citizens also speak from time to time. you'd be surprised at the courage they have in the face of the hesitations we may have. so the point of these reminders is also to say that we must not rest on our laurels. i know my time is limited, so i'm going to be rather brief on some subjects. but i would just like to emphasise the need to remain open, within our union and to the world, at a time when tensions are rising and protectionism is rather the first reflex of each other as soon as we talk about openness, about european values and fundamental rights, and about the need for our union to continue to rise to the challenge of a war that is on our doorstep. and i told you that in the most difficult times of the pandemic, we showed that working together was the answer. and i told you earlier, with the vaccines and with the border guards. but the little luxembourg has taken french patients. that is what the european union is for me: to see how we can build something together. thanks to the staff coming from across the border, we were able to take patients coming from across the border. that is what the european union is all about: not closing in on ourselves and saying that this is not our problem. our problems are common, and the best way to solve common problems is to find common solutions, not to be narrow-minded and withdrawn. when we talk about borders today, it has become a subject, i must say, that surprises me. i'm part of a generation that hasn't known war. many of us have not seen war. but in your assembly, madam president, many of your elected representatives and also in my council have experienced an iron curtain. they've known a wall. they knew what it meant to be divided. do we, the european union, now want to send the message that the political will is to rebuild walls? for me, europe means tearing down the walls that existed on our continent. let's not repeat the mistakes of the past. (applause) i would like to thank madam president, i would also like to mention the common market on the occasion of its anniversary. according to a study by the european parliament's services, the internal market has created 56 million jobs in the european union and a structural increase in the union's gdp of around 9%. it not only brings us prosperity, but it also gives rise to our common rules and standards in the areas of social, environmental, consumer protection and food safety. while state aid can act as a 'bridge' to help our industrial fabric and smes through difficult times, it is the internal market and its regulatory environment that will enable them to remain competitive in a sustainable way, especially at global level. at the same time, a competitive eu economy cannot only be based on the internal market. we need openness to the rest of the world, and there are also significant flows of investment. it is important that we as the eu continue to provide the means to protect ourselves against economic constraints and against investments that pose a security risk. much has been said in recent weeks and months about the concept of europe's strategic autonomy. let me be very clear: for me strategic autonomy means neither protectionism nor the abandonment of friends and close partners nor the equidistance between the allies and the rest of the world. and i have not yet had the impression from any of the many and constant discussions with the colleagues in the european council that only one or one of them has understood the concept of strategic autonomy in this way. we should continue to work on artistic, constructive and results-oriented issues. the net zero industry act, the chips act and the critical raw materials act were introduced by ursula von der leyen and thierry breton. it is now up to the council and parliament to take responsibility. for us, openness should be an essential part of our efforts for more strategic autonomy. open markets, coupled with a level playing field especially in environmental, climate and human rights issues, were and will also be the basis of our prosperity in the future. the commission is not prepared to accept that. but not only that. the protectionism is not dependent on the consequences. strategic autonomy means, on the contrary, diversification of supply chains, which our values share and which we take seriously in order to achieve the goals of the paris agreement. strategic autonomy also means to lead a proactive european industrial policy to ensure production and value creation in europe, particularly in the context of the green and digital transition, to promote the availability of critical raw materials and to diversify, rather than relying on all or much of them, to free europe from dependence on fossil fuels, to build up and maintain renewable energy networks, and finally to promote and protect technological development and innovations made in europe. in diesem sinne rede ich liebsten von offener strategischer autonomie. this is the first time that the commission has proposed a new approach to the issue of the autonomy of the regions. and when i'm talking about openness, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot avoid touching upon the issue of a truly common european migration policy. i agree that, in order for schengen to work, we need to be in a position to better regulate and control access to the schengen area. however, for me, that does not and cannot in any way imply that we europeans do not have a legal obligation and a moral duty to offer those seeking international protection a realistic possibility to do so, and to grant international protection to those who qualify for it. as i told my colleagues at the february european council, border walls are not only costly and questionable from a political point of view, but they are not effective in stopping irregular migration. we have to improve the surveillance of our external borders and engage with international partners on issues like returns or the management of migratory flows, or addressing the root causes of irregular migration and setting up possibilities for regular migration. at the same time, respect for fundamental rights, as well as international humanitarian law, should be the guiding principle for a common european migration policy that preserves and strengthens our credibility with our neighbours and other third party countries. the external dimension can only be complementary to the internal dimension. a common european migration policy needs to be fair, resilient, rules-based and characterised by the right balance between solidarity and responsibility. for me, the european asylum and migration pact and the related preparatory work by the successive french, czech and swedish presidencies represents the only solution on the table with the potential to achieve this balance. let us not give up on the pact and let us try to hammer out an agreement before the end of this legislature, using the joint roadmap of the european parliament and the council as our compass to this end. for me, one of the central characteristics of the european project has been the fact that it has always been firmly anchored in the respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law. this was my main theme of my speech before this plenary last november. and as i told you in the press conference, i had a speech prepared about technical matters, and so on, and so on, but, roberta, you showed us the video of simone veil and this changed my whole speech. you know who simone veil was, but we are remembering today. you have this yellow star on you. simone veil not only had a yellow star or flower; she was marked for life she was jewish. she fought, during her political engagement, for women's rights and, for me, she represents europe. this peace project. this project of respecting people as they are. and so that is the reason i want to officially apologize to all my team, who usually prepare long speeches and i don't very often stick to them. but it was important for me to recall that. for me, you have to continue to fight for these rights, for this rule of law and for these human rights. madam president, the defence of the rule of law and the fundamental rights of the citizen must remain the backbone of this european union, and we cannot change the rules according to who is in power. the european parliament is active on the ground in this area, and i would particularly like to highlight the role you have just played in the establishment of a rule of law conditionality mechanism for the multiannual financial framework and for nextgenerationeu. the developments of the last few months have shown us that this mechanism can be improved, but it works. in addition, funds suspended in the context of the submission of certain national recovery plans until certain mid-term objectives in the field of the rule of law are met, funds suspended in the context of the financial regulation and infringement procedures initiated by the commission, including the anti-lgbt+ law in hungary, which was supported by 15 countries in the commission. i was at the european council, madam president, just after viktor orbán announced the law he wanted to introduce on the media, which means that it is no longer possible to talk about homosexuality on television, on the radio or in education. we can't talk about this anymore. if anyone in this room thinks that you're becoming gay because you've been watching tv... if anyone thinks they've become gay because they listened to a song... you've got it all wrong. the hardest thing for a homosexual is to accept himself. (applause) i would like to thank we are not asking for pity, we are not asking for solidarity, we are not asking for compassion, we are just asking for respect. so, to give the impression that because you were born that way it's better to have a double life, or to hide it, and not be able to live... do we know how many young people commit suicide because they can't communicate about their own homosexuality? to stigmatise them and say that it is the fault of education, culture and the audiovisual sector is, in my view, contrary to the nature of the european union, its openness and tolerance... the day i understood what i was and accepted myself, my friends said to me: "finally!" my family said to me: "finally!" but, to think that in other countries, i wouldn't even have the right to say it without risking a penalty - in some countries, not in the european union - prison or even the death penalty! and to think that in the european union, soon, i will not be able to talk about it with anyone else, except in anonymity, because i risk perverting the younger generations! i 'm not ... i am ashamed, madam president, that some of my colleagues want to win votes on the backs of minorities. it's already started like this, in our history... (applause) i would like to thank i think, madam president, that we need to complete our toolbox on human rights and minority rights. in view of the challenges - financial, climate, security, industrial and social - that lie ahead in the years ahead, i will also ask for more solidarity and means, which will also determine our political action. let me end, madam president, by referring to this aggression, this war of aggression launched by russia against ukraine. it has been happening right in front of our doors for over a year now, and i think the biggest surprise has been our unity. many expected that from the start it would go off smoothly and that everyone would go their separate ways. our strength is our unity. the european union is never as strong as when it is united. individual states are not much - don't take this the wrong way - but the european union is strong. i see that at present we cannot have the peace we would like to have right now. i'll be very honest with you, i'm not considering it right now. it is clear that the un charter is being violated, and as you said, madam president, luxembourg does not want impunity. we cannot say that part of the deal will be impunity in relation to what is happening today in ukraine. and let me quote robert schuman, a native of luxembourg, in his 1950 statement: 'world peace cannot be safeguarded without creative efforts commensurate with the dangers which threaten it. other these words still ring loudly today, and it is our historic duty to commit to them, to pursue them and to fulfil them, and thus to react in a united way to the unacceptable russian aggression. sanction the aggressor, continue to support ukraine financially, supply it with weapons. you said that we have allocated a large part of our budget to ukraine so that they can take what they need. it will also require creative efforts to use enlargement policy as a geopolitical tool, accompanying ukraine as a candidate on the long and difficult path towards accession. another creative effort will be to have a serious discussion on the functioning, from an institutional point of view, but also from a budgetary and financial point of view, of a european union that will expand in the next two decades. the last creative efforts: those which will enable us to mobilise the resources needed to rebuild ukraine and to build a european order which will put an end to the wars on our continent once and for all. we must live up to the efforts that lie ahead, whether in terms of respect for the rule of law, the climate, commitment to ukraine, the will to build something that will allow us to go further together. i believe it was churchill who said: "alone we go faster, together we go further". other as prime minister of luxembourg for the last ten years, i know that without this europe i might not be here today, free, free to express myself freely without risking sanctions. whether you are of the extreme left or the extreme right, here you fight, but on ideas and with words, not with guns, not with fists, not with threats. thank you for standing strong for the values of this democracy in this house and for not falling for the sirens of populism.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, mr prime minister, the european union, and within it luxembourg, continues to be a haven of attraction and welcome. that is our strength today. but the european union is also at a crossroads. we need more europe to deal with a world that has become much more hostile to democracies and has seen the return of war on the european continent, due to an autocratic and hegemonic russia that has invaded ukraine. we need more europe for more autonomy, especially in relation to china, and the crises of the last few years have also brought this certainty to our citizens. the covid-19 pandemic has raised the desire of eu citizens for a european health union. it seems to me, mr prime minister, that luxembourg should play a leading role in this context, especially since we have the european health and digital executive agency in luxembourg. the pandemic has also resulted in shortages and has shown that for essential goods, be it medicines, food or life-saving technology, we cannot depend on other continents. we must bring production back to europe, including luxembourg, both to guarantee our autonomy and with environmental protection in mind. and the same is true of our safety. our citizens know that peace is not a given and that european defence has become indispensable. we need a union capable of making decisions militarily, and autonomous decisions. the dependencies in which we are entangled - energy, economic and military - are making us vulnerable. we need decision-making autonomy and de facto autonomy. it will or will not be done together. in the european union, each country has an important voice. we expect luxembourg to take these realities into account in its foreign policy and that, within the european union, we will work for a strong union for our security and peace.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of this year 15 women have been killed in my country by their current or former comrades. last year there were 22 female murders in the context of existing or past intimate relationships. these numbers, which embarrass me, are not unique to portugal. violence against women in various forms remains entrenched in several member states. we must act together to solve a problem that is everyone's. the european union is much more than an economic bloc. the promotion of the welfare of its citizens is an objective enshrined in the treaties, such as combating discrimination in all its forms and promoting equality between men and women. gender violence has no place in this shared space. the commission has already adopted a number of amendments to the directive on the protection of workers' rights. these principles must be absolutely clear to everyone. in february this year, the council finally approved the ratification of the istanbul convention on the combat of violence against women. but it is imperative that all 27 member states, without exception, do the same and it is imperative that we adopt a directive criminalizing all forms of violence against women, including rape based on lack of consent. it's not enough to just hold our values. we have a moral obligation to enforce them and to hold accountable those who do not respect them. silence and inaction are forms of complicity with violence.
mr. speaker, what is this? the commission. aida, 29, the student who's straight, but with a huge heart, was killed by her boyfriend. tally, 50, the one who just got her motorcycle license and always spread joy around her. she was killed by her partner. somayyeh, a 40-year-old surgical nurse. described as ambitious, loving, and confident, she was murdered by her husband. carine, 27 years old. she had so many dreams in her life, she was outgoing and thoughtful, she was killed by her husband. these are four of the women who were murdered in sweden last year by a man they love or have loved. every week 50 women in the eu are murdered by a man they have or had a relationship with. women are murdered just because they're women. cause of death: female. it can even happen in front of their children. this has got to stop. we need a strong eu legislation against male violence against women.
mr president, home should be where one feels and is safe, but for many women it is a place of fear and insecurity. they are afraid for their lives and the lives of their children. domestic violence is not always visible and victims are often afraid to speak out, to seek help, and they are afraid of the consequences if, finally, they would manage to escape. on the day for the elimination of violence against women my message is clear: domestic violence is a crime, and it is a human right to be protected from it everywhere. and we must move forward with legislation. that is why i call upon the six eu member states that refused so far to ratify the istanbul convention to protect women everywhere. and to the victims: you are not alone. don’t feel embarrassed. don’t hide. speak out. i want you safe. i want you alive.
