mr president, there is an increase in cases of respiratory infections and the associated complications of morbidity and even mortality, and in the response capacity of health services. the causes of this problem must be tackled, without however neglecting the social dimension and the coincidence of the worsening of people's living conditions, if the european union's policies are to contribute to widespread poverty, to the inhibition of better food care, to the improvement of housing conditions or to the guarantee of their heating. the problem is increasingly being compounded by the frequent shortage of medicines of various kinds, a situation which is not unconnected with the fact that there are options motivated not by the interests of the population and public health but by the interests of pharmaceutical companies and their profits, in particular the multinationals, for whom the institutions of the european union make everything easier. whatever the analysis, the solution that is needed if we are to really respond to these problems is necessarily a public response, investing and strengthening national public health services, empowering each country productively and technically, and releasing patents to meet their needs for medicines within the framework of their sovereignty.
mr president, how is it that in greece, with its 30 large pharmaceutical companies, there are explosive shortages of basic painkillers, inhaled medicines and even specialised therapeutic preparations? why are there similar shortages in other countries of the european union? but because the drug is a commodity. because this is the normalcy of the laws of the capitalist market and of competition, which impose parallel exports on the backs of the people. governments, the european union and the parties serving the interests of the groups, such as new democracy in greece, syriza and pasok, are all in agreement to blackmail the people with the dilemma of 'price increases or shortages'. we have seen the same play in the vaccine pandemic and in the group competition, where the latest developments confirm that the european union's 'corruption' is up to its neck in this. the people have the power to enforce the payment of the capital. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president! commissioner, please! the shortage of medicines in europe has become chronic, and we have not adopted a single policy document, but just saying half, half does not make it any sweeter. i would like to emphasize two things here. first, there is a need for a simpler, more modern regulation of medicines, because it is very, very difficult to bring medicines into compliance with the obligations and procedures of the european pharmacopoeia act and the regulatory system is not sufficiently digitised. european legislation needs to be reviewed, simplifying and modernising its procedures. this will improve the life-cycle management of medicines and digital infrastructure and tools will contribute to the security of supply. cooperation between regulators will promote flexible supply chains. second, we need to better understand the relationship between drug prices, corporate profits and drug availability. the different pricing, payment, procurement policies of the 27 member states in the jungle can be very, very rare to get clarity. this is why national medicines services need to come together, inform each other and learn how to achieve better outcomes, which would then also allow for better prices for people and security of supply chains. thank you.
madam president, the invasion of ukraine has probably been the most important geostrategic shock to europe since the fall of the berlin wall. but it has also highlighted our shortcomings and our challenges in defence and security. a country under attack and a country that is attacking. and of course europe wants peace: a just peace, one which respects the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity. but to seek a just peace today, support for those who defend themselves in legitimate defence and the military assistance that has been and must continue to be given to ukraine are indispensable. to be against military assistance is not to be in favour of peace, it is to accept, by the way, that ukraine is a country subject to barbarism and brutality: that is what it means today. it has not only been, of course, a warning signal; it is also a call to action, to action in the field of defence to build our own capabilities, our own industry, to use, of course, economies of scale and to coordinate our purchases to continue to assist those who continue to defend themselves in legitimate defence.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. commissioner, please! the peace of europe now depends on the defense of ukraine, and ukraine in bahmut is now defending all of us so that we can sit here and decide. it is regrettable that the european defence agency has not been able to reach a common defence procurement agreement in these 13 months. we therefore need to act the european parliament, with the law on the strengthening of the european defence industry by joint procurement, which must be adopted as soon as possible. we have to balance in the law, on the one hand, of course, this immediate task of restoring the stock of defence material sent to ukraine by the member states, on the other hand, it is a question of the medium-term task of developing our defence industry here in europe, our production capacity. the 500 million offered by the commission is of course a small sum, considering its defence needs in ukraine. but we must act now and not wait for some larger sums in some distant, unknown future.
rapporteur. – mr president, commissioner hahn, secretary of state madam samblás, colleagues, we have got a budget 2024, which is good news. we could reach a reasonable agreement. we could protect and reinforce key programmes that are vital for the union and for the european citizens: science, youth, health programs, transport, military, mobility, the fight against fraud with eu funds, international humanitarian aid. these are the priorities. we could add eur 85 million to horizon, bringing the total budget to almost eur 12.9 billion – money that the scientific community so desperately needs. health research is also included in the programme. eur 60 million more in the erasmus+ programme, bringing the total to around eur 3.9 billion. this means more support for young people to travel and experience student life in another european country and city. i know this very well from the experience of latvian students in particular, and it is by far one of the most successful programmes in the european union. the current economic crisis makes this programme even more important, and i am glad that the european union supports young people from disadvantaged backgrounds. all in all, we could add eur 670 million more to meet the needs and demands of europeans. on the other institutions, where i am in charge as rapporteur, i admit we could not achieve a maximum result. there are many constraints we have to take into account: the pressure on heading 7, high inflation, energy costs. but overall, we managed to reinforce five institutions and agencies, which is very welcome: the european external action service, the european court of auditors, the european court of justice, the european data protection supervisor and the european public prosecutor’s office. justice, values, data protection and of course, foreign affairs are the priorities. i would like to thank the spanish presidency and secretary of state, ms samblás, commissioner hahn, it has not been easy this year, but willingness to find compromises is a powerful tool. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr mureşan, and the shadow rapporteurs for their collaboration and of course, the secretariat and the team who make it possible.
madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, it is very sad to see how our productive fabric has been dismantled. during this term, more than half of this house has been committed to making life impossible for companies with unfair and disproportionate demands. the commission has already adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. now, at the end, just a few months before the elections, there is talk of relaunching entrepreneurship: it is a little late, because the damage is already done. to speak seriously of entrepreneurship, a change in the composition of this house is necessary on 9 june. we must be committed to the one who puts common sense and values entrepreneurs' initiative. we must create a favourable regulatory environment by re-examining legislation and, of course, open up space for creativity, which today is reduced to ecological and digital transitions. if there is no change of course, we will continue in a spiral decline.
the president's wife! the honoured commissioner! i and the whole team working here in parliament on our newcomer competitiveness report, of course, support the commission's objective of reducing the burden of reporting by 25%. and i really hope that the commission will put this principle into practice. first of all, think of small initiatives and proposals for all these one-in-one-out initiatives. however, as soon as we have finished working on a collaborative european law, i would like to emphasise that the objective of submitting documents only once, where public sector authorities cooperate with each other, is very far from being achieved, as the collaboration of institutions in the digital environment remains a huge problem both within and between countries. we need to not only reduce the burden of regulatory and reporting by 25%, but we also need to increase the speed of communication with government agencies by 25%. every policy, every decision at all levels of government must be digitally adopted after closure and interoperable across different databases. we're seeing how fast artificial intelligence is coming into our lives right now. if we are to maintain human control over machines at all, our administration must be more flexible and much faster, otherwise the administration will still lose contact with the european [..] (the speaker is prevented from continuing to speak).
mr president, i wanted to propose that we buy a ‘wallace and daly’ record and play it at the end of every debate.
i'm taking this into account.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for this interesting debate. and i thank you for your support on our approach on the european economic security strategy. it is important that the european parliament show its backing and a strong engagement, as stakes are high and times are troubled. the eu needs a comprehensive and united strategy to preserve and build its economic strengths, the strengths needed to be a global player. in your interventions, you also highlighted the need for continued international engagement at bilateral and multilateral level. yes, we want to preserve and increase the benefits we derive from the rules-based trading system. i agree that it is necessary to find the right balance between the economic openness that has shaped the eu’s wealth so far, and economic security. this is why our strategy should be risk-based and our action precise and proportionate. i have listened attentively and i also heard calls for various stakeholders, including our business community, to be properly involved and consulted. indeed, eu companies are usually the first to be impacted when economic security risks materialise. they must be involved in shaping the answer. so to give you one example, we have created a new economic security task force within the industrial forum. it serves to develop a collective understanding of economic security and encourage eu businesses to conduct relevant due diligence and risk management. i agree with the view that economic strategy should not overly focus on protective measures. we need more funding to promote the uptake and scale-up of cleantech and other critical technologies in europe. as part of the multiannual financial framework mid-term review, we have made a proposal for the strategic technologies for europe platform, also called the step platform, to support technologies that are critical for the union’s economic security. the objective of step is to mobilise the necessary funding available across various existing eu programmes to stimulate investments in critical technologies. we have proposed to reinforce some of these programmes with an extra eur 10 billion. these top-ups, together with the existing funding and additional flexibility proposed under the cohesion policy and recovery and resilience facility, have the potential to mobilise up to eur 160 billion of investments in the coming years. as you know, this week, leaders of european countries will meet to discuss the mff review, including step. honourable members, let me conclude by emphasising once again that international cooperation is at the core of eu economic security. we cannot achieve economic security on our own in an interconnected world. we will use all avenues, including within the g7, trade and technology councils, free trade agreements, digital partnerships, the global gateway and the world trade organisation to strengthen our economic security. and we will continue to insist that the eu speaks with one strong voice on these matters. we count on the european parliament’s support in pushing the economic security agenda forward. as i said, the key to success is to act in unity and to strike the right balance between the three pillars: promote, protect and partner.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on behalf of the council. – mr president, dear members, in fact we are facing a new paradigm. economic security is a way of trying to balance, to maintain economic openness and improving resilience to threats. we need both things. we are, and we want to continue being, an economic, open economy, and we know that there are threats that affect our resilience and we have to take care of them. so balance – balance between these two different things – will be key in this debate. and that’s why the risk-based approach that we have identified in the joint communication on economic security is so important. we are going into uncharted waters. we both do things, we want two things that are colliding, or in some cases not being complimentary, but we have to look for complementarities among them. we don’t want to become protectionist, but we have to protect against risk. looking for protection doesn’t mean to be protectionist. we are not protectionist. we believe in free trade, but in some cases we have to protect ourselves, which we explained to our chinese counterpart during the last european union-china summit in peking some days ago. we have to promote european competitiveness and to partner around the world, so we can call it a kind of ‘ppp’: we have to protect ourselves, we have to promote our competitiveness and we have to increase our partnership around the world. protecting ourselves is different of being protectionist. so i would therefore like to conclude by focusing on the last two p’s: to promote and to partner, because de-risking comes with risk and with cost, but we have to take it in order that promote new opportunities. and our foreign and security policy has to be there. when we decide to do something with someone it is foreign policy. it’s trade policy, certainly, but it’s more than that. our foreign and economic policies, hand in hand, we need to develop new partnerships to respond to domestic and global challenges, helping partners to promote their own growth and resilience through diversification of value chains. china has organised an impressive conference last week and distributing a lot of information when we were in peking talking about how value chains are working in today’s economy. and value chains are vulnerable. they are long, and in some cases they become critical. so we have to take care of the security issues when developing our economic relations with the rest of the world.
the debate is closed.
commissioner, i was not aware, up to now, that the next two debates are also with you. so you are sitting now four and a half hours. so we can have a short technical break, but we are already at 22.20. so if you need a short break, but we cannot afford a long time. so i put it into your discretion.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. mr dombrovskis will accept the statement of the vice-president of the commission and the high representatives, because the fact is that he has been here for four and a half hours, no meal, and there are two more debates. that's why we're grateful for the flexibility. the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the environmental impact of russia's war on ukraine and on the necessary accountability (2023/2991(rsp)).
executive vice-president of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, russia’s illegal, brutal war against ukraine continues for almost 700 days. we stood, and we continue standing, unwavering by ukraine. the war brings unspeakable suffering to the ukrainian people. and nature is a silent victim of russia’s war, with devastating environmental consequences. we all remember the destruction of the dam at kakhovka hydroelectric power plant on 6 june this year. this act caused widespread damage, submerging 620 km² of territory, impacting 100 000 residents directly. ukraine estimated that the total recovery and reconstruction needs amounted to eur 4.68 billion, of which roughly half is required immediately. some of the damage will be irreparable for years. president zelenskyy denounced the destruction of the kakhovka dam as an ecocide and the worst environmental disaster in ukraine after chernobyl. beyond this, the war causes damage to the environment every day. based on its environmental inspections, ukraine estimates that russia’s invasion has caused roughly eur 52.4 billion in environmental damage. for too long, environmental damages have been side-lined as collateral damage. this must stop. ukraine is the first country in history investigating crimes committed by the occupation forces against the natural environment as a war crime. according to ukraine’s office of the prosecutor general, a total of 2 500 incidents of environmental damage have been documented so far. the eu condemns in the strongest terms the damages to nature caused by the russian federation in ukraine. perpetrators must be held to account and damages must be compensated. the eu works intensively on ensuring accountability. we enabled eurojust to set up the core international crimes evidence database to preserve, store and analyse evidence related to international crimes. ukraine can now directly benefit from this new database. the eu also continues strengthening the ukrainian prosecutor general’s office itself in investigation and prosecution of environmental damages caused. our support, together with that of the us and uk via the atrocity crimes advisory group, remains crucial. we also fully support the international criminal court investigations. it is worth remembering that, under the rome statute, acts causing widespread long-term and severe damage to the natural environment can amount to war crimes. it is equally important to ensure that russia pays reparations, including for the environmental damage resulting from internationally wrongful acts, in or against ukraine. in this respect, we welcome the registry of damage established by the council of europe. it will serve as a record of evidence and information on claims for damages, losses or injury caused by russia’s war of aggression. as you know, the eu is a founding associate member of the register, and we supported its set-up with eur 1 million. honourable members, allow me to thank you for your continuous efforts in attracting public attention to the illegal war russia is waging against ukraine, including to its environmental consequences. and i also welcome the high-level working group of the european parliament organised on 27 november 2023 in this regard. thank you for your attention and i look forward to the debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. the international law-abusive, inhuman russian war of aggression against ukraine has many facets. we have addressed and condemned them on previous occasions, from the debate on the kidnapping of children to the deliberate destruction of vital infrastructure. all this is not directed against combatants, but against civilians or civilian institutions. a special aspect is the damage caused by war to the environment. i do not mean the traces of a chain of tanks that are visible on a harvested field and disappear after a rainfall. no, i think of all the unnecessary things because war-induced pollution gets into the soil, air and water of ukraine and in some cases, in the long term, polluted and contaminated these elements. it is estimated that the pollution emissions from this war are equivalent to the annual emissions of belgium. one of the biggest or biggest crimes in the area is certainly the destruction of the kachowka dam. i am against using certain words inflationarily, but i think in this context the word ecocide is actually appropriate given what has happened under the dam, but also above it by the disappearance of the lake there. we have russia's conduct in connection with the saporishcheya nuclear power plant. it is already criminal to carry out war deliberately and deliberately near nuclear power plants. but the treatment of the workers there is also extremely reprehensible, and therefore it is necessary to record this as well as the other crimes that we record for the purposes of subsequent war crimes trials. i think that the crimes against the environment show the character of the russian regime, and the condemnation is certainly quite uniform and unanimous here in this house as usual.
for the s&d group. mr president! we're approaching the second anniversary of russia's invasion of ukraine. and in ukraine, people are still dying in the war. families are falling apart. the homes are being destroyed. and nature is suffering. in the first two weeks of the war alone, air pollution in kyiv was 27 times higher than normal. millions of acres of farmland have been contaminated with heavy metals and millions of greenhouse gases have been emitted by war. the russian forces are not only committing murder of the ukrainian population. they also commit murder against the ukrainian nature and therefore there is a continuing need for a strong and united european support for ukraine and a similarly strong condemnation of russia. we can and must together hold russia responsible for the environmental damage they are causing to ukraine. it will take many years to rebuild ukraine, but it will also take a lot of time and money to restore the nature of ukraine. let's use all the tools we have to help ukraine on the way.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, vice-president, russia’s actions in ukraine can clearly be described as ecocide. the environmental damage to ukraine is enormous. the estimates of the cost vary, but it is clear this is at least eur 60 billion. the full extent of the damage will only be known once the war is over. however, in the meantime, europe must act. we must find legal ways to hold russia accountable for this ecocide. until now, european countries have mostly dragged their feet on confiscating russian assets in europe to compensate for the damage done to ukraine. an important step is registered by the council of europe – already mentioned, it has been agreed by 44 countries in may – it aims to document the environmental damage and to prepare the ground for concrete reparations for ukraine. but there is also a sound legal basis to hold russia accountable for crimes against the environment, like the kakhovka dam, already mentioned, and to make it compensate for the damage. here i am referring to the rome statute of the international criminal court and other international acts. what we need here is a clear political will to proceed and to make russia pay for the damage.
commissioner, you've been ignoring violations of the rule of law in slovakia for three and a half years. you ignored 30 decisions of the constitutional court of the slovak republic. you ignored five decisions of the european court of human rights. you and i know very well that interfering with the special prosecutor's office is not contrary to the rule of law. because it wasn't even a condition of our membership in the european union. and you know very well that the other things you mentioned in your report are also contrary to what is the rule of law. so don't get involved and be polite. and now listen to me, you panopticon of slovak politicians. you have come here with absolutely pointless accusations that you are ashamed of before slovak journalists, who you told that the commission wanted this debate. you're not even in favor of pressuring the epp and renew to open this debate. and to you, mrs. in 't veld. if you don't mind that the detective, the woman, santus, the people you're defending here wanted to kick a i don't know where, put a bomb in her car and call her a label that i won't even mention in this suit, then don't talk about rights. all the slovak mps who are standing here against slovakia, be ashamed of yourself. (the speaker rejected the question raised by martin hoysik by raising the blue card)
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. this debate shows: defend the beginnings! fico is the most recent example of how our liberal parliamentary democracy, the independence of the judiciary, the rule of law, the independence of the media, the protection of journalists from outside and from within, is under pressure. these values are not divisible. they are not a question of national sovereignty. these values and european law are the basis of cooperation in europe and the capacity of the european union to act. they must be respected, enforced. we do not have to wait for authoritarianism to establish facts, but we have to publicly and democratically resist the actions of fico, orbán and co. it is about the future of european democracy, the independence of the european union and our capacity for action. we must not watch, we must not go to the agenda, and we must not wait until it has happened, but must lead the public debate from the outset. where the public debate is held, there may be changes. we saw that in poland.
madam president, dear colleagues, the criminal law reform presented by the new government in slovakia is an internal affair. it should be debated thoroughly in slovakia. the issue has nothing to do on the agenda of the european parliament. a few months ago, slovakia made a clear decision at the elections: after several years of political instability, they elected a new government to take power. now, whether the current majority of this house likes or does not like that result is completely irrelevant. this house should not be used to take revenge for an election defeat. political disagreements with the new government in slovakia, be it to do with their policy on ukraine or their tougher stance against illegal migration or whatever, do not make a criminal law reform an european issue. matters related to national competencies should be debated in national parliaments. i believe that europe has plenty of other things to worry about – labelling another central european country now as the latest rule of law scapegoat is certainly not one of them. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question)
blue-card question. – my colleague, my friend, you know that we are not discussing the anti-corruption law, but especially we have the fear about the situation in slovakia. have you met any people who have had experience with the mafia in slovakia? and did you see the cases that we investigated there after the murder of ján kuciak?
blue-card answer. – listen, tomáš, i repeat, this is a matter for slovakia to discuss. this proposition is a criminal law reform. a special prosecutor will be incorporated, as far as i understand, within the judiciary and the prosecutor’s office. this debate, this decision is for slovaks to make. it’s not for here to make. and it’s wrong to bring it here. these debates, political battles, have to be fought at home. and elections are there for people to decide. and they’ve just made a decision. even if you don’t like the results, i understand that, but it shouldn’t be used here as a political attack on a new government. it’s just not the right place for it.
the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. the developments in slovakia are of concern. president fico and his new social democratic government have decided, together with the social democrats, that they are not out of the right, to reduce the penalty for corruption significantly, to reduce the time limit so that convictions will be no longer possible, or that they will be released again. in my view, these weakening of the rule of law by fico and his government represent a fundamental break with the efforts of recent years in which, after the murder of journalist ján kuciak and his wife, the first strenuous progress against the mafia structures in slovakia has been made. fico himself, along with some of his fellow combatants, was suspected of having favored this cousin's economy. i would like to point out very clearly that the arf in terms of the payment of the corresponding funds is in the so-called milestone 15.5 fight against corruption and strengthening the integrity and independence of the judiciary and in milestone 16.1 reforms to combat corruption and money laundering effectively. fico did the opposite. i therefore urge the commission to withdraw the appropriations appropriated accordingly, because i cannot understand why 662 million euros are being released at this time when the exact opposite is being done to what is stated in the milestones. they cannot be considered fulfilled. i ask the commission to act.
the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. the current developments show that elections have meaning and that every vote counts. in slovakia, the rule of law is seriously threatened shortly after elections. we have seen in hungary for years that booksellers are no longer allowed to sell books, for example, in a very specific case, that companies from my home country, austria, are also subject to harassment, as this is not the case in the eu. in our common single market in malta, there are problems with free journalism and other problems. but on the positive side, elections can have an impact in poland, where a government that did not take the separation of powers and the rule of law seriously could be elected in democratic elections. and it shows for 2024, when not only we are voting in the eu, but the us and many parts of the world are having important elections, how important it is for citizens to defend their rights here. the extreme example of our weeks is spain, unfortunately, where a coalition government has been formed, which is trampling on the rule of law by simply making amnesty for thousands of people, for over a thousand people, and suddenly the law can no longer be considered valid by the common citizen, by the common citizen. and then the spanish representative has the audacity to make internal politics, namely internal party politics in spain, instead of ending the presidency of the european council here at the end of the year. we're gonna have to push the bar. we have the principle of conditionality.
madam president, commissioner, yes, we could all have spent the evening in a completely different way than we did here discussing slovakia, but we don't care. all of you who stayed here, i know by name. i take all of you from slovakia as our brothers and sisters and i don't always care what happens in slovakia. i was in slovakia in 2019 and i got a few threatening emails just because i said that we have evidence that there are things going on there where cross-crossing happens, subsidy collection on the same land, where two people claimed one subsidy, and someone didn't like it enough that he wrote me emails that something could happen to me and my family. - i did. my roots are in slovakia. my grandfather was born in slovakia, and i just don't want slovakia, where i'm afraid to go. i want a slovakia that is modern, that is part of the european union and that is the engine of the european union and that shows the way and shows pride. slovaks are proud, so show it and don't go east. go the way to the west. and that's what this debate should be about. it's not about insulting anyone, it's not about insulting someone, it's not about sticking to someone, but i see it as a scream for us not to go to slovakia to investigate any fraud, but to go to slovakia with love, joy and optimism that everything is on the right track in slovakia.
the commission has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented in a timely manner. with them, i insist on justice for all, including myself. mr. prime minister fico, it was you personally who first addressed the european commission. when you don't like the answer and the squares are full, you try to distract yourself and blame the opposition? but you have the key to the solution. all you have to do is stop these destructive steps and return to the national council negotiating table. i also reject your accusations that i support slovakia taking away the euro. as a representative of the kdh, a strong party in the regions, i will always fight for slovakia to use the euro funds effectively to move our cities, towns and regions forward. and i have always been against using the withdrawal of euro funds as a punishment against voters when we or someone else doesn't like the outcome of an election. but here i want to point out one more thing. in the past, attacks on this parliament too, in the context of the rule of law, have too often targeted policies that fall within the exclusive competence of the member states. unfortunately, this has undermined the legitimacy and authority of the european union in this area. i therefore repeat my call for strict respect for the principle of subsidiarity. the future of the european union, of which slovakia is a member, is also at stake.
madam president, slovenian friends and citizens, you are not alone in this, as ivan stefaniec said. we're here with you. corruption, populism, extremism, they don't avoid any country, and you stand up to them. you stood up to them in the last election when you expelled fica and his people from the institution in response to the murder of jan kuciak and his fiancée. i'm half slovene, and i'm proud to report it, and i can't believe you're going to be watching fico's rule of law, how it restricts the independence of the courts and the freedom of the media. the european parliament does not condemn you, but condemns the practices of your prime minister, his people. this discussion isn't about you without you. i also appeal to the letter of the kuciak and kushnír family, who fear that the death of their children may have been in vain if slovakia does not defend its freedom. and i want to tell mr. uhrík that you and your program to abolish the special prosecutor's office have not been admitted to the slovak national council. that's the way it is.
member of the commission. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the use of the electricity sector. i would like to confirm that the commission is analysing all the reforms in all member states, independently and objectively, to avoid any regression, but also to try to promote any improvement in the rule of law. all the instruments at our disposal can be used, including, of course, instruments of financial pressure, sometimes, to achieve reforms that could not be achieved after very long years. i am thinking in particular of recent reforms in a member state in the field of justice. we welcome, of course, as has just been pointed out, the slovak authorities' desire to open a dialogue with the commission on reforms. i had the opportunity to speak personally with the prime minister and members of the government. but the commission, as guardian of the treaties, will verify the compatibility of the reforms with european law. we oppose reforms which are against european law and we take into account, sometimes even by welcoming them, reforms which implement the recommendations of the rule of law report or the requests made, for example, in the recovery plans. the demands made in the recovery plans have led to reforms, particularly in the area of justice, which are moving in the right direction and improving the rule of law. i would therefore like to thank you for this debate, but i would like to remind you that the commission has responded very quickly, since on 5 december, after meeting with members of the government, we wrote to the slovak government to clarify our concerns and, above all, to ask for a postponement of the debate. this has obviously not had any effect. the debate will continue within the various competent slovak institutions, but i confirm that we will examine within the commission all the instruments at our disposal to respond to whether texts jeopardize union law and the financial interests of the european union, as we have done, whenever necessary, with regard to any member state within the union.
president-in-office of the council. i am not sure what the commission is going to do with the commission. in short, its interventions will be primarily directed to the commission, which has responded to its comments and opinions on this matter. i can only confirm from the council that the presidency of the council and the council as a whole wish to continue to show this house the great importance it attaches to the rule of law, the fight against corruption, the protection of journalists and the defence of freedom of the press and freedom of expression.
the discussion is closed. the vote will take place at the next round.
the agenda is set out in the council and commission statements on the european defence investment programme (edip) (2023/3027(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, security and defence remain a priority on our agenda. the council therefore welcomes the opportunity to exchange views with you on this subject and in particular on the forthcoming european defence investment programme. in the previous debate we had this morning on the european council, i reminded you that security and defence are among the topics on the agenda of tomorrow's and past leaders. i would like to begin by pointing out that much has been achieved in the last year and a half in terms of european defence cooperation: first, defence spending has increased. at the leaders' meeting in versailles in march 2022, the leaders of the european union agreed to increase this expenditure considerably. in general terms, we are on the right track, and member states' defence budgets have increased and will continue to do so this year and next. thanks to this, we can offset decades of insufficient investment. secondly, joint projects have been undertaken. in october the co-legislators adopted the edirpa regulation to encourage joint procurement of military equipment. this instrument is the first of its kind and will help member states to use their defence investments efficiently. thirdly, in order to address the shortcomings and meet the capacity targets, in the wake of the russian invasion of ukraine, member states decided to review their common capacity-building priorities. the updated version of the capacity development plan for 2023 was adopted in november last year as a result of this work and this revision of the plan will provide a key reference for the planning work of the european union and the member states on defence. fourthly, stimulation of innovation, in particular through synergies in the civil and military spheres. the commission and the high representative, with the support of the european defence agency, are preparing a new development, the european defence industrial strategy. fifthly, we have worked to strengthen and develop our defence industry. the regulation on support for munitions production entered into force last july, providing for eur 500 million for industry to increase production of missiles and ammunition. the interinstitutional negotiations on this dossier took place in record time and, as president of the council, i am grateful for the work also of this house, of this parliament, which has contributed to the success of this regulation. the european defence investment programme is expected to provide a long-term vision and support for the aspects necessary to prepare the european defence industry for the future. we need a tool that ensures that our defence industry is competitive and capable of meeting the most demanding requirements for both innovation and production capacity. to this end, both supply and demand tools are needed, which consolidate what has already been agreed in the two regulations i have mentioned: edirpa and the munitions production support regulation. we have high expectations, but the current situation is demanding. we must work to get this programme approved as soon as possible and we therefore fully support the commission's efforts and would like to invite it to submit the programme proposal as soon as possible.
member of the commission. i would like to thank you for organising this important debate, and i should like to be clear in the introduction. yes, the european defence industry support programme, edip, is needed now more than ever. this is what i support, as you have known for months now. i note that this should be in the conclusions of the european council, which will be adopted tomorrow, and the president, as you know, mentioned it for her part last week. so, yes, i can confirm that we are working on a european defence industrial programme and a new defence industrial strategy. our ambition is to present it in february next year, i.e. in a few weeks. we have no time to waste, as you know, but we must keep the political momentum going. the war of aggression waged by russia against ukraine and the return to our continent of high-intensity war are profoundly changing our european security paradigm. the european people must become stronger, more responsive, more agile and, above all, less dependent on our allies, as the czech president recently declared, which obviously does not mean less committed or less solidarity. we must, collectively, strengthen our preparation, our readiness, as they say in english. it is a requirement, but it is also now a prerequisite for our collective security. having a competitive, robust, responsive european defence industrial and technological base that delivers a volume over time is not a choice: it is now an imperative for our security. we can produce anything in europe in the field of defence, but we must now also be able to produce more and more quickly. the availability of defence equipment, in time and in volume, is now an essential element of our security. we must build on what we have been able to do for the past two years. our action in support of ukraine has been decisive and rapid. we have, with the essential support of this parliament and i would like to thank it again, put in place and mobilised two completely new instruments. firstly, a demand consolidation instrument, which we called edirpa, which provides for eur 300 million to encourage what should become a basic reflex: joint acquisition. secondly, as you know, a direct support instrument for ammunition production capacity of eur 500 million, asap, adopted in two months by the council and parliament, is a record and is being implemented. the two instruments work in synergy with the european peace facility, which has already demonstrated its decisive role in supporting arms transfers to ukraine. these initiatives complement the research and development efforts under the european defence fund. so what are we doing today? if our collective action has been decisive since 2022, it must be acknowledged that it was also taken urgently to respond to the situation imposed on us by vladimir putin's aggression in ukraine. but now it's time for us to move from reactivity to a more structured response. this is the ambition of the extensive consultation which the commission has launched with the member states, industry and financial industries (including those which finance the military industry), but also with you, ladies and gentlemen. this consultation is structured in documents received by parliament. we draw on the experience of edirpa and asap and want to identify all possible regulatory, programming and coordination levers to increase our defence preparedness. in essence, i believe that the defence industrial ecosystem must be transformed into a model where supply security and capacity to increase production are directly integrated. we should be able to give, i repeat, more and more quickly, not dependent on others, but especially when there is a need. we must also put an end to the chronic underinvestment in our defence and do so effectively, avoiding fragmentation. i therefore believe that we must first better define our capability priorities by developing a defence capability programming function at european level. secondly, we need to know our industrial chains better to strengthen our supply security and reduce our dependence, whether on technology or industry. thirdly, we must invest and develop as europeans in european projects defending common interests, in particular to protect our disputed areas (those which cannot be accessed by a single member state), whether in space, in the cyber world or in the field of protecting our maritime areas. finally, we must also put in place a regulatory framework to ensure security of supply in times of crisis. we must also take into account the needs of ukraine in our european defence industrial strategy, which is why we have integrated ukraine as much as possible in the consultation we are currently conducting. finally, we must avoid a halt in support for the defence industry after 2025 and prepare, in essence, a bridge to the next eu budget. so, of course, new ambitions call for new means. we are moving within a budgetary framework which you know well and which you know the constraints. however, edip will have to be adequately financed, without prejudice to the debate on the future budget of the union. but for all these points i naturally rely on parliament's support.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, mr president, mr commissioner, parliament was quick to approve and negotiate edirpa, to strengthen the competitiveness and efficiency of the european defence technology and industrial base, and to agree on an emergency procedure to apply the ammunition production regulation, known by the english acronym asap. in approving these programmes, parliament took into account that some of the principles included in it would be an inspiration for the urgent proposal for the presentation and negotiation of the european defence investment programme (edip), in particular the protection of cohesion funds, the guarantee of labour rights, the principle of partnership and common demand, the inclusion of smes and medium-sized enterprises in consortia, the combined impact on the defence capacity and the potential of european industry, as translated by the european defence industry strategy (edis), which we are also looking forward to. but, commissioner, you have been very vocal about the need to prepare edis and edip right now, following edirpa and asap. and contrary to what it sounds like, this is not an acronym game. it is the security, defence and strategic autonomy of the union that is at stake. we need quick and clear answers.
on behalf of the renew group. dear lady of the president, mr. breton! our discussion today is taking place in a rather turbulent context, because the days ahead will be truly an hour of truth for european security. if the european council does not succeed, the security of ukraine and of all europe will be seriously threatened, and i think it is precisely in this context that it would be urgent to move forward with this programme for joint defence investment in europe. as rapporteur for the act on common defence procurement (edirpa), i am well aware of the complexity of the european change of mind, starting from the usual, fully civil thinking, but the common procurement was achieved. the result was also the law on munitions production in support of ukraine ukraine asap. but now we have to provide funding for defence industry support through these two programmes in 2025 as well as the next european union budget phase from 2028 so that our industry can deal with it. we also need all possible taxation and budgetary relief for common defence production programmes. because if we don't provide clear financial support for our speech and strategy, we can only blame ourselves if the aggressor, not god, wants to test our name for our actions.
