president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, the competitiveness of europe’s industry is currently facing multiple challenges. while the european economy still had not fully recovered from the covid-related crisis and its severe socio-economic consequences, the russian military aggression against ukraine led to numerous disruptions in global value chains and to a significant increase in the energy prices in europe. on top of that, third countries have adopted legislation providing for state-aid schemes to help domestic companies move to a greener model – for example, the inflation reduction act – which could have a negative impact on the competitiveness of eu companies and industries. while addressing these issues in the short term, we should not lose sight of what the union has to do in order to be competitive in the long term. the basic fundaments and the success of the single market – common regulations, standard-setting, innovation, mutual recognition, a level playing field with competition policy and state aid rules – has been our biggest asset. therefore, the union’s response to these challenges relies to a large extent on the improvement of the single market. first, we need to ensure that we have the right instruments to deal with future crises. this is why the presidency will treat as a priority the commission’s proposal on the single market emergency instrument. once in place, it should facilitate effective cooperation, solidarity and communication between eu institutions, member states, and other stakeholders in case of crisis. second, we need to continue our efforts to enforce existing rules and the better regulation agenda. in these challenging times, we need to be aware of the burden european companies are carrying – not least smes, who are the backbone of the european economy. because it is these smes that bring forward smart, innovative solutions that play a key role in the green and digital transitions. therefore, we cannot overburden them with unnecessary rules and regulations. instead, we need to be smart and selective as regulators and make sure that the eu economy is boosted, not burdened with new eu initiatives. thirdly, we must acknowledge that our economy, our businesses, and our start-ups need to be properly financed to face current and future global challenges and avoid fragmentation within the union. venture capital has increased in europe in recent years, but we are still lagging behind the us and china. these investment gaps can be reduced by completing the banking union and an integrated, well-functioning capital market union. we also need to address the fact that european companies risk relocating to third countries in search of large venture capital investors. in short, a robust single market where we give each other access to goods and services that can flow across the borders in a competitive market is the best way to build the eu’s resilience in the future. all these topics are key priorities for the swedish presidency. debates among member states will take place at expert, ministerial and leaders’ level, and not least with the european parliament. i look forward to continue our common work on the success story that is the single market.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, honourable minister roswall, i’m very glad that the celebration of the 30 years of the single market is followed by this debate. the single market is one of our great success stories. it shows what our democracy can achieve when we work together. beyond the clear economic dimension, as we spoke of earlier, the single market also gives the european union global scale. as citizens, the single market enables us to live, work, travel wherever we want in europe. as consumers, we are protected by a common set of rules, and we have a greater choice of products at lower prices. it allows us to shop online across europe, to make electronic payments in euros and for roaming across the union. at the same time, the single market significantly expands the horizon and the scope of opportunities for european businesses. it brings higher legal certainty, greater access to markets, more economies of scale and entire cross—border value chains. in addition, thanks to the single market, european businesses can bid for public procurement contracts anywhere in europe, and this makes doing business easier and cheaper, creating jobs and creating growth everywhere. this does not mean that the single market is complete or that the achievements just mentioned can be taken for granted. as the covid pandemic had shown us, when member states act individually by closing their borders or introducing intra—eu export bans on medical equipment, on grain, on raw materials, well then the whole function of the single market is jeopardised. we saw clear examples of that at the beginning of the pandemic, such as shortages of essential products, huge traffic jams at the frontiers preventing the free movement of essential workers. and recent crises have also triggered wider awareness of the need to address europe’s strategic dependencies on third countries and enhance europe’s independency. and this is in particular the case for sectors and technologies that are based on raw materials, or microprocessors, where europe is particularly dependent on imports from other countries. finally, companies and citizens continue to report a number of persisting obstacles, such as misapplication of rules, lengthy or diverse national administrative procedures that really hamper all that they rely on: free cross—border trade and investment in the single market, as well as citizens’ ability to provide services across border. however, as said, the single market is not complete. its achievement cannot be taken for granted and it requires work and effort to preserve it, to make it future-proof. every day. first, we must reflect on the single market, how it can further support the acceleration of the green and digital transition. and we also need to ensure that the rules agreed collectively are also applied collectively in every member state. a key initiative in this regard is the single market enforcement task force, which is working to prevent and to remove obstacles. in addition, we need to deepen the single market and consider which areas may benefit from stronger cooperation. for example, the area of services where we are still lagging behind. and we need to put the small and medium—sized businesses to the centre of our attention. after having suffered the consequences of the pandemic, they are now challenged by soaring energy prices and lack of skilled employees. finally, we need to strengthen the single market force of projection and think of the single market in its global perspective. the single market is a base, it’s a hub, it’s a protection in a challenging global environment. it’s our tool to uphold our values. for instance, when it comes to principles of privacy, of transparency, as well as our high green and environmental protection objectives and of course, our social standards. i’m looking very much forward for this debate. that will be the starting point of the next 30 years of the single market.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the single market is much more exciting than we have heard so far. because if we didn't have the single market, we would have to invent it. you have said, madam vice-president, that the single market makes things happen. it is true that in german we would say: the internal market helps us to do business with each other, both economically and personally: economically, because we have the possibility of allowing a very large number of small and mediumsized enterprises to start operating cross-border in the first place, because they do not have a legal department, because they cannot afford an export department. but the same applies, of course, to the workers. they can only afford the prosperity we have today because we have the 55, 56 million jobs that exist because of the single market. of course, the single market is more than just an economy. we have heard about the babies born through erasmus. the border opening would never have been possible if the economy hadn't pushed us to do it. that is why we should also see 30 years of the single market as a task, that what we have achieved gives us the opportunity, for example, to gather the funds we need to help ukraine against russia. because we love freedom, because we love the open markets that give us that opportunity, and that also give the motivation to the many members of our population to keep this economic power. the council must of course also ask itself, as we look to the future, madam minister, whether we do not need to take further steps forward. the single market - the set of rules that bind us together in europe - goes far beyond the economic sphere. i therefore hope that you, madam minister, will use the discussions in the council on the emergency instrument for the internal market in a constructive way to look at where we need to go in europe, even if it goes beyond the economic. for example, the obligation to harmonize the rules on home offices is of particular importance in border regions. we have to move on! i'm sure there are many other ideas. we should talk about that today. it's not technical, it's exciting!
the s&d group is not in favour of this. mr. chairman, thank you for that. it is often said, and mrs vestager has said it today, but it can be repeated again. the single market is nothing less than a crown jewel of european cooperation. over the last 30 years, the single market has created jobs, wealth and prosperity in the eu, and i hope it will continue to do so. we celebrate today and congratulate all of us. but as with all good inventions, they need to be developed further, and the same applies to the internal market. so i want to talk about some changes that we can make, rather than just going on and on about all the really good things that we've done. firstly, i think it is important that we have to transform the single market into a new type of globalisation. we need to move away from 1.0 and move to globalization 2.0. industrial policy has become geopolitical again and the single market must be better equipped to deal with this. and so we have to make sure that we can be more independent of other countries without closing ourselves off. secondly, as has been said, the single market is facing two major transformations: the green one and the digital one. we have been incredibly ambitious in this term, we have passed the dsa legislation, common chargers and so on. but we must continue in this direction, because being in the forefront is precisely what will ensure that we also have a market in the future. and then, as mrs vestager also said, implementation is absolutely, absolutely crucial. our member countries are not doing enough to implement our legislation. we must therefore look at how we can ensure that the many good laws we get made in the internal market are actually also properly enforced. and in that way, i hope that we too can take part in celebrating the 60th anniversary of the single market in 30 years' time.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, madam executive vice-president, the single market is the hidden gift that keeps giving. our lives are better because of the single market, with safer products, more choices and lower prices. it is the single market that keeps our supermarket shelves full and that makes it so europeans can feel safer shopping anywhere in europe. the single market is the secret to a richer and safer europe. the single market is always work in progress. every year we must continue to work to make the single market better for our citizens. after 30 years, however, the four freedoms are still not complete. it is time to renew our commitment to removing barriers and, especially, preventing new ones. today, we find member states looking inwards, seeking national solutions to european problems. i am here to say clearly that national measures that fragment the single market are member states shooting themselves in the foot, just as the british did by leaving it altogether. uncoordinated national subsidies, national regulations, national requirements are the death of the single market by a thousand cuts. let us not kill the golden goose which keeps our union united. instead, let us invest in it and strengthen it.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, dear commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since its creation in 1993, the single market has been instrumental to european growth and prosperity. in the face of the 2008 financial crisis, it helped to ensure the resilience of our economies. later, during the pandemic, it enabled member states to respond in a coordinated manner, purchasing vaccines together. now dealing with the energy crisis caused by dependence on russian fossil fuel, it is again enabling europe to stand united. we can proudly say today that the single market is the eu’s biggest achievement, promoting free movement of people, goods and capital. sadly, the free movement of services has been left behind due to a lack of political will. therefore, i would like to remind us all on this special day that the potential of the single market has not yet been reached for eu services, failing to deliver up to an additional eur 450 billion per year to our economy. i believe we can do more and i am looking forward to working with you on this in the coming years.
for the left. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at first sight the idea of a common european market is a great thing. unfortunately, if we look closely at the veneer of one of europe's great freedoms, we find that all is not as rosy as it seems at first glance. it is considered that the czech republic has clearly benefited from an open common market. however, the fact is that we live in a country where the czechs don't own anything anymore. we're practically foreigners here, all substantially owned by corporations from other member states. it goes from the networks of virtually all gas stations, to parts of the energy system and major food chains and industry. you might think it's nothing. the problem is, this thesis only works if it's good. in a crisis, the shirt always turns out to be closer than the coat. and the current energy crisis has confirmed that point. for years, the european union has fought for the full liberalisation of the energy market within the framework of the internal free market. you fought, my friends. as a result, the czech republic, a country that is by no means one of the richest in the european union, has the highest electricity prices today. we produce electricity cheaply, export it to the stock exchange and buy it from companies in rich member states. for czech citizens and local businesses, the only thing left is the expensive one at western prices. the problem is further accelerated by the fact that even western companies find relatively cheap electricity bought on the stock market expensive. this is followed by the attempt by countries such as germany to replace this 'cost' with their own companies, which calls into question the free internal market promoted and further exacerbates the gaps in competitiveness. if this succeeds, there will only be more corporate divestitures and the colonial status of the czech republic will only deepen. another example of a dysfunctional internal market is found in the pharmaceutical market today. we were exposed to it by the lack of medication for respiratory diseases. since medicinal products are ordinary goods, such as sugar, under european union law, they are subject to the rules of the common market. because they're cheaper here in eastern europe, they just buy them where they're needed the most. and these countries, which are cheaper, their patients are making up for not having the drugs. and we need to start talking about really changing the primary law to exclude drugs and pharmaceuticals from the free movement of goods. there's a lot of things that went wrong. we have a lot to fix. i don't know if i want to do the same thing for another 30 years. i wish it had been 30 years better, especially for the eu citizens who would really benefit from the internal market.
mr. president, madam vice president, in the wake of the covid pandemic and despite the war in ukraine and its aftermath, today is, without a doubt, a day of celebration. thirty years of the single market is without doubt one of the great achievements of the european union, perhaps the best tool we have to guarantee peace, stability and prosperity on our continent. we have achieved many successes and overcome many challenges, but we have also experienced disappointments and some frustrations. with brexit some foresaw new freedoms for the uk that were somewhat utopian. the result is clearly different. but i want to focus on the digital realm. fourteen years ago we started to push the digital single market forward. europe had been left behind by not paying enough attention to the transition that other countries were doing, especially the united states. in 2014, the european commission took note of this and made the digital market one of its priorities. today we can boast that in europe we are at the forefront of global regulation with the digital services act and the digital markets act: two regulations that lay the foundations for what the online world should be based on our values, european values. however, we cannot relax and repeat the mistakes of the past. we need to complete the digital single market with initiatives such as the artificial intelligence act or the data act, among others. we must remember that the single market is stronger than the sum of its parts; that we are not competing with each other, but globally. it is crucial that we continue to break down barriers anchored in the past and protect and empower our european citizens and businesses, especially our smes. only then will we make more europe. only then will we remain influential in an increasingly digitised, increasingly globalised world.
mr president, the single market is one of the european union's greatest achievements, because it has enabled millions of people to live better lives, to work better, to produce better products and services, and has created over 56 million jobs. the european union is a world leader in high standards of consumer protection and protection of workers' rights, as well as in the quality of products and services. it is more important than ever to strengthen the resilience of our market to crises, but also to make it more modern and sustainable for the future. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to provide a financial contribution to the european union's development of the energy sector. citizens must know what they are buying, they must be assured of the right to repair. they must be protected from misleading advertising and practices. inflation causes the price to rise for the end user and that is why it is more important than ever to provide our people with the best value for their money. in the single market, everyone must be equal and everyone's voice must be heard, from product quality issues to the removal of geo-blocking, everyone must have equal rights. for us socialists and democrats in the european parliament, a fair and equitable market is essential, in which the protection of the weak should be a priority for all.
mr president, madam minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. today we are celebrating the 30th anniversary of the european single market. and, yes, that is cause for celebration. the single market, unlike monetary union, is a real success story. the four freedoms, combined with open borders within the schengen area, have brought all eu citizens much more added wealth than most people realise. this anniversary is a reminder to us to defend the single market, this common area of freedom and prosperity, with determination. this includes effective protection of our external borders and strict action against subsidy races. the commission, under mrs von der leyen's leadership, is unfortunately not doing its job of defending the achievements of the internal market: uncontrolled mass immigration, which is also being encouraged by this house, is an existential threat to our free economic area, as is an aggressive commission which, in its efforts to save the climate, is launching a veritable orgy of subsidies. so let us not celebrate too loudly today, but let us finally do what must be done so as not to negligently lose what has been achieved. there's a lot of things wrong.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i believe that the common market is the most successful european project. it has contributed to millions of jobs, to a higher standard of living for citizens in the union, and to peace and cooperation between countries that had previously been at war for centuries. today, after 30 years, the single market faces several challenges at once. it's the kremlin's aggression against ukraine, the disinformation wars, the disruption of global supply chains, or the rising us protectionism. and that only increases the importance of our common market. if we are to remain globally competitive and keep jobs in europe, we must continue to strengthen the powers of our common market. freedom goes hand in hand with responsibility. and this is also true of the common market. the challenges of today remind us that neither democracy nor economic growth is a given. and we must not be too busy working with the citizens and reminding them of the importance of this project. we must not only protect the common market, but also continue to deepen it. we need to complete it in the services area, building a common digital market, but also a common energy market. that's the most important thing today. at the same time, we need to implement a capital union to improve access to finance for small businesses, ensure mutual recognition of qualifications, and also common electronic standards. all this will help to create even more jobs and can add another 300 billion to the current contribution of 269 billion euros. ladies and gentlemen, let us use today's reflection to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the single market, and also look back at why the eu was created and focus on helping our citizens as much as possible by consistently applying and developing our own single european market.
free roaming, the common charger, erasmus, freedom to live, work and travel in europe, consumer protection - including better compensation for citizens, high quality standards for products, competitive choices, cheaper and fairer prices, online shopping in the european union, freedom to trade and access for small companies to markets across europe. this is what the single market has become over the last thirty years. the single market is not a gateway in itself but a tool that can substantially improve the quality of life of european citizens and help europe respond to different emergencies, including the pandemic and the shortage of essential services, including medicines, as well as the energy crisis that resulted from the russian invasion of ukraine. the single market is undoubtedly a success story that has helped us to bring about some of the european union's greatest achievements. we now need to achieve the same high levels of resilience and protection in the digital single market. what is illegal offline should also be illegal in the online world. to this end we must protect the highest level of single market standards, principles and rules, also in the digital world, and ensure that european consumers, workers and small and medium-sized enterprises are protected in the new digital realities that are emerging. europe must develop resilient digital strategies that allow this market to be a primary catalyst for economic recovery and at the same time work for citizens, putting their interests first and protecting the most fundamental rights of our consumers.
madam president, mr kristersson, the swedish presidency will take place in 2023, which is decisive for the balance of achievements of the 2019-2024 legislature. you have heard the many expectations placed on the swedish presidency, but also expressions of concern that it is being devalued on a major issue, such as what has been referred to as a 'mass migration threat', which contradicts what the majority of this parliament has agreed in the road map signed with the presidencies until the end of this legislature, including the swedish one, which wants to make the new pact on migration and asylum a historic opportunity to give a response to the migration issue that is european, that is, consistent with its values, and above all, the only way that it is really effective. this requires a balance, in fulfilling the mandate of article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, between binding solidarity and shared responsibility, that is, not turning our backs on the frontline states in the mediterranean or those that have a frontline in the mediterranean and also have one in the atlantic, as is the case of spain with the canary islands.
madam president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to express my hope that the swedish presidency will bring good results. mr prime minister, you said you wanted a more ethical, greener, safer europe. i didn't hear the word fairer, more social, more just. because yesterday we celebrated 30 years of the single market and we still do not have a single market. you used that term, single market. you have the opportunity, mr prime minister, to make european union history, to unify the market and, as has been said here, to make the two states and the millions of citizens of romania, my country and bulgaria, have full rights to the movement of goods. you have been obeyed by the citizens of my country. do you think that drivers who spend 3-4 days at the border because they are not part of schengen, have hope that you will correct this equity? please, mr. prime minister, answer me, so i can answer my citizens. and i wish you success, because only together, with solidarity, can we be strong in the global market.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, dear prime minister, honourable members of the european parliament, first and foremost, i would like to thank you all for the debate which highlighted the major challenges we have to tackle and face together. first and foremost, support for ukraine. we will be working together on continuous financial support and, as you are probably informed, first disbursement of eur 3 billion to our ukrainian friends was just made this morning. i’m sure that the swedish presidency, in close cooperation with the commission and the european parliament, will explore all other possibilities how to assist the brave ukrainians to defend their country: from military aid, through support for ukrainian strategic infrastructure, down to reconstruction and preparation for ukraine’s integration into the european union. second, a huge challenge, which was rightly highlighted by many honourable members, is competitiveness. we very much appreciate the fact that the swedish presidency put this so high on the agenda for this semester. competitive europe means economically and politically strong europe. strong europe, which is able to play its role as a global actor, to help others, to defend the weaker, but also to guarantee the strong social policies europe is so known for. in our visit to kiruna, we heard from companies like northvolt, who became a multi—billion high—tech battery company in just a few years. we have heard from the companies who know how to do green mining, carbon—free steel, how they can focus creatively on the critical raw materials we need so much in europe and how to push us to the next level in the electromobility. your companies, mr prime minister, are proving that you can be globally competitive and at the same time highly sustainable. and i think as mr azmani has underscored, now we need to make sure that we spread these examples across europe, that we will be working with all of you to make sure that we will push over the finishing line with the chips act, and as we start to work on the critical raw materials act, that we will be putting down the rules on responsible mining, that we will be working on pushing energy prices down and energy security in europe up, because this is exactly what we need to help our businesses, our households, and to consolidate our single market. president of the european commission ursula von der leyen just presented her ideas to develop and work on the net—zero industry act, where we want to look into the possibilities, how to make the decision—making if it comes to the ipse, the important projects from the common european interest faster, where we would also be having also more experienced assessment of the state aid. and we are going to do all that to improve the competitiveness of european companies, but also to counter relocation risks of these companies which are now in a difficult situation. to get to there, we are also preparing to work on the european sovereignty fund, and we are doing all this to send a very clear message to the european industry. we are going to fight for you to stay and prosper in europe. mr prime minister, if i look at the number of the trilogues your presidency will be facing, i think that we can already now describe your presidency as a very important negotiation presidency. and i just would like to highlight that we will be working very closely with you to make sure that you will have the utmost success in achieving the conclusions of these negotiations, because it would allow us to push all these legislative proposals, especially in the field of the green deal, over the finishing line and make europe more dynamic and more competitive. if you allow me, madam president, to continue and conclude on a very important point for which sweden is traditionally known and is a strong supporter, i am talking about the free trade. there are very high ambitions in this regard. we need to make most of the trade agreements, for example, we have with canada, but also with the uk, with which we are trying hard to sort our differences. but we are also working very hard to conclude agreements with mexico, chile, new zealand, australia and would like to work closely with the swedish presidency to achieve progress with india and indonesia. and we also believe that we need to restart a conversation about mercosur agreement. and we will do all that together with making sure that we would find proper answers to reduce the negative side effects of inflation reduction act and to face unfair competition, which is very often coming from chinese massive subsidies. madam president, one of the issues which was highlighted by many speakers was the issue of migration. here we in the european commission are convinced that with the political will and the hard work we can finalise migration and asylum pact. we need it now, but for sure, we will need it in the future. so, madam president, honourable members, dear prime minister and the colleagues from the swedish presidency, i think it is quite clear that you are taking the helm of the european union at a very special, crucial time, and i am sure that thanks to our close cooperation, thanks to traditional swedish efficiency, innovative approach, can—do spirit and your ambitious agenda, your presidency will be a success, not only for you, but for the whole of europe.
acting president of the council. the commissioner has already said that he is not prepared to accept the amendments. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is not every day that one has the honour of speaking before a parliament which is almost full. thank you very much for the many interesting, thoughtful questions, kind greetings, and critical comments. i appreciate clarity and openness in both questions and answers. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. i'd be happy to do that in the swedish parliament. i myself and the swedish government have left the swedish electoral movement behind and are now working hard to implement important reforms in sweden and to lead the eu's joint work in the council forward. in this context, i would like to show respect for our common european problems and opportunities. two domestic policy issues are nevertheless quite close to our common european issues. one is climate and environment and energy, which we are now bringing together in a joint department in the swedish government, because climate starts and ends in energy policy. the second issue is that we are now re-writing swedish foreign and security policy in order to safeguard sweden's security through nato membership. it is important for us, but we also believe it is important for other nato members. in the 1990s, sweden became part of the international community, the european economy and european democracy through eu membership. we, who then saw the economic and democratic value of this issue, had to fight hard against all those who wanted to keep sweden out of cooperation. sweden and finland are now about to become part of the international community, including in security policy. sweden is broadly in agreement and joins nato with finland. 28 of the 30 nato countries have already welcomed us. we value that very much. finally, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that i appreciate the concept of 'pride of expectation' and i understand the disappointment in the schengen issue. sweden is now consulting all the member states concerned on the accession of romania and bulgaria to schengen, and we are of course ready to put that question on the agenda. the western balkans process towards future eu membership is continuing and the council just had a very good western balkans summit in tirana. sweden is very much in favour of and will cooperate with a tenth sanctions package and, not least, with forms of clear, individual accountability for those responsible for the abuses now being committed in ukraine. madam president, i would like to thank you. finally, there is a common denominator in our three keywords: greener, safer and freer, and that is that all three require decisions both in the short term and in the long term, both to meet the immediate problems and to meet the long-term challenges. the eu has proven its ability to deal with crises from the debt crisis through the pandemic, the vaccine and the war. it wasn't obvious. the eu has impressed when the eu needed to do so most. crisis management is necessary but not sufficient. long-term, total fossil-free energy is the key to green. a long-term, close eu cooperation with close transatlantic ties is the key to security. long-term competitiveness, free trade and clarity from the commission and parliament on rule of law issues these are the keys to more freedom. greener, safer, freer. greener, safer, freer. this is the way to go. greener, safer, freer. i'm not going to do that. thank you so much for today's discussions.
thank you very much, prime minister. that concludes the debate. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate sweden on its presidency. europe is indeed going through a difficult period. the war is still raging around us, and the economic crisis that has hit europe is not going away, so it is essential to find solutions to help our people and businesses survive this difficult period. i welcome the fact that the swedish presidency has made ukraine and aid to ukraine and its people a priority policy area. the war in ukraine continues, and we need to re-examine the measures to help refugees from the war in the european union and to provide them with the necessary conditions to survive and to support their families until they can safely return to their country. the ukrainian victory is of existential importance to europe. existential even to the whole world. it's a fight for democracy and decency, a fight for our freedom and security. it is therefore our common task to continue to support the ukrainian people who are fighting not only for independence but also for a european way of life. we must provide all economic, political, humanitarian and military support to ukraine and monitor the progress of ukraine's reforms and its path towards eu membership. europe has united with ukraine, and i very much hope that this solidarity and unity will continue.
in writing. unfortunately, there are many cases where programmes and evaluations to help roma communities in europe catch up do not give a realistic picture of the situation of roma citizens in our member states. the european union still has a lot of work to do in the fields of housing, education, employment and health. that's why we need to talk about facilitating catch-up programs and controlling them more effectively. i therefore recommend that the swedish presidency take into account the issue of the integration of the estimated six million roma communities in europe. we must not forget our most vulnerable fellow citizens, who are still affected by negative discrimination in many areas of life. at the same time, i welcome the high priority areas identified by the presidency, including those aimed at enhancing competitiveness and protecting democratic values and the rule of law. the full integration of europe's largest minority is unthinkable without the integration of roma into the economy. to increase europe's competitiveness, we must rely on the workforce and skills of roma. we must give work and not relief, opportunity and not alms to those on the periphery of society. i also propose strengthening the fra's research network, increasing the employment of anthropologists and palaeontologists and strengthening the methodology for the qualitative evaluation of the catch-up programmes. europe's economic and political interest is to embrace the roma in order to promote equal opportunities and increase competitiveness. i wish the swedish presidency every success in this.
in writing. for the third time since joining the european union, sweden takes over the rotating presidency of the eu council. security, resilience, prosperity and the defence of democratic values. these are the four priorities for sweden's eu leadership. i am pleased that one of the four priorities is prosperity the ecological and energy transition. if the swedish presidency wants to prosper in the eu, then the implementation of the single european sky is also absolutely necessary. once operational, the single european sky will not only lead to a 20% reduction in emissions, but will also contribute to economic growth and stimulate new jobs. i said in 2015 that given the efforts of european competitors, whether we're talking about brazil, canada, russia or china, the eu needs the ses now, not tomorrow. it's 2023, we don't have time to hesitate. as a rapporteur for the european parliament who has been working on this dossier for a long time, during which i have negotiated with representatives of several council presidencies, i can say that i hope that by the end of this legislature they will have closed this dossier and i count on the swedish presidency to make a positive contribution to this effort.
in writing. the priority of the european union and the swedish presidency for the next six months must remain the protection of european citizens from the crises we face: inflation, rising energy prices, economic instability or the war in ukraine. we must remain united in solidarity, united in defending european values, respecting each member state and its contribution to the european project. i therefore call on the swedish presidency of the council of the european union to protect european solidarity by making romania's accession to the schengen area a priority. my country has, according to the assessments of the european institutions, for a very long time complied with all the criteria specific to the free movement area and can strengthen common borders and internal security. in addition, accession increases the logistical support capacity for ukraine and the republic of moldova. i propose that the swedish presidency insist that the states that have blocked enlargement review their position and bring this back on the european agenda with the aim of generating the necessary unanimity in the justice and home affairs council.
in writing. the beginning of the swedish presidency comes at a key moment for the european union, as structural measures are expected throughout the year to respond to social discontent over high inflation, while work continues on the solution to the terrible ukrainian conflict, the challenge of european competitiveness, the reform of the energy market - and in particular the comprehensive reform of the electricity market - the ecological transition and the defence of the rule of law. the s&d group regrets that the swedish presidency's programme does not include a single commitment on the social pillar, women and migrants and hopes that it will rectify and advance the work on the directives on gender violence and pay transparency and the new pact on migration and asylum, in particular the measures relating to legal migration. the socialists also hope that the swedish presidency, which has always been recognised as being at the forefront of human rights, will keep its commitments and not be dragged along by its far-right partners.
in writing. the beginning of the swedish presidency comes at a key moment for the european union, as structural measures are expected throughout the year to respond to social discontent over high inflation, while work continues on the solution to the terrible ukrainian conflict, the challenge of european competitiveness, the reform of the energy market - and in particular the comprehensive reform of the electricity market - the ecological transition and the defence of the rule of law. the s&d group regrets that the swedish presidency's programme does not include a single commitment on the social pillar, women and migrants and hopes that it will rectify and advance the work on the directives on gender violence and pay transparency and the new pact on migration and asylum, in particular the measures relating to legal migration. the socialists also hope that the swedish presidency, which has always been recognised as being at the forefront of human rights, will keep its commitments and not be dragged along by its far-right partners.
in writing. as greens/efa, we are very sceptical about the swedish presidency. the right-wing conservative government is under the influence of the sweden democrats, reports of xenophobia and racism are commonplace. we fear setbacks in some key areas, such as migration, equality, diversity, inclusion and the rule of law. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption.
in writing. the swedish presidency of the council of the european union (eu) has based its programme on the principle that unity and the capacity to act are fundamental to ensuring the security, resilience and prosperity of the union. continued economic and military support to ukraine is part of a broader perspective of deepening the consensus to strengthen the common security and defence policy. the european competitiveness is assumed. to ensure a robust energy transition, regulatory modernisation is proposed to attract the necessary investments. the defence of the union's fundamental values and the rule of law is considered to be fundamental to the union's internal cohesion and external influence. i welcome these priorities, but i note the lack of a social dimension, of priority for supporting the most vulnerable and of action to reduce inequalities throughout the union. finally, i would like to stress the commitment of the presidency to strengthening the eu's role as a global actor. in this area, i stress my commitment to do everything possible to conclude the negotiations on the post-cotonou agreement, a key step towards the affirmation of the eu's role in the world, in a framework of multilateral cooperation and partnership between equals.
we now proceed to the vote. please use your earpieces. (for the results of the vote and further details, see minutes)
yes, and i remind you that the changes you just made will take effect tomorrow.
the vote is therefore closed. (the sitting was suspended for a short time.)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr adriana maldonado lópez, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on consumer protection in online video games: an approach to the european single market (2022/2014 (ini)) (a9-0300/2022).
member of the commission. – mr president. honourable members, i would like to thank you for this report and for putting this topic on today’s agenda. the commission recognises the role of video games. the sector offers important economic opportunities and enjoyment and leisure for many european consumers, as exemplified by the significant number of players across all ages in all the member states. the report, however, rightly points to the need for more responsibility, especially since nearly all children between 11 and 14 years old – and many younger ones – play video games and spend an increasing amount of time online. indeed, consumer protection in video games is essential to ensure a safe and trustworthy digital environment. the commission is taking several initiatives in this regard. first, by ensuring the correct transposition and implementation of the existing eu consumer law instruments, which already address effectively several issues that video games might raise. for example, the unfair commercial practices directive covers the marketing of so-called ‘loot boxes’ and price transparency. the commission has brought these and other consumer issues relating to video games to the attention of the consumer protection cooperation network – the cpc – which brings together the national authorities responsible for the enforcement of eu consumer law. already in 2016, the commission and the cpc network addressed major app stores to ensure that they inform consumers up front of the existence of in-game purchases before they download the games, as well as about the cost of such purchases. such games cannot be labelled as ‘free to play’. it was also requested that parents be fully empowered to implement parental controls. most recently, last year, the commission underlined to the two major eu trade associations representing the video game sector the fundamental compliance principles defined by the cpc network in relation to in-app purchases, and that these apply also to loot boxes. children, in particular, are at risk. unfortunately, online grooming approaching children for the purposes of sexual abuse has also been growing in past years, rising by more than 80%. companies are still doing too little to protect children on gaming services. therefore, the commission put forward a legislative proposal in 2022, obliging providers of online games to perform a risk assessment and to take measures to better protect children. where such preventive measures fail, companies can be obliged to check for grooming. en outre, la commission encourage les autorités nationales à prendre des mesures pour lutter contre les pratiques qui se sont manifestées dans le domaine des jeux en ligne. nous prévoyons également de collaborer avec les organisations de consommateurs afin de recueillir des exemples concrets de pratiques commerciales agressives à l’encontre des utilisateurs. dans le cadre de l’année européenne de la jeunesse 2022, les centres européens des consommateurs ont mis au point des outils de sensibilisation qui peuvent être utilisés dans les écoles. dans le cadre d’un cours d’anglais, par exemple, les enfants peuvent s’informer sur les principaux défis en matière de protection des consommateurs dans les jeux en ligne. par ailleurs, la commission recensera les recherches existantes sur l’impact du neuromarketing sur les enfants afin d’identifier le plus tôt possible les nouvelles techniques de marketing qui pourraient être hautement manipulatrices. la commission a également lancé une évaluation de la législation européenne en matière de protection des consommateurs en ce qui concerne l’équité numérique. notre objectif est de déterminer si les instruments législatifs horizontaux de l’union en matière de protection des consommateurs demeurent adéquats pour assurer un niveau élevé de protection des consommateurs dans l’environnement numérique et quelles améliorations pourraient être nécessaires. par exemple, nous nous concentrons sur des questions telles que les dark patterns (pièges à utilisateurs) dans la conception des interfaces en ligne, l’annulation des contrats d’abonnement ou la transparence des prix. finally, the renewed better internet for kids strategy aims for every child in europe to be protected, empowered and respected online. the commission invites member states and the video game industry to be involved in the implementation of the three pillars of the strategy, namely safe and age-appropriate digital experiences, digital empowerment and skills, and active digital participation. this strategy recognises that online gaming is now a major online activity for children, which presents opportunities but also comes with risks. industry-led efforts play an important role in ensuring a safe gameplay environment to protect children while also promoting healthy gameplay habits. under this strategy, the commission will facilitate the preparation of a comprehensive eu code of conduct on age-appropriate design. this code will build on the regulatory framework provided in the digital services act and will be in line with the audiovisual media services directive and the general data protection regulation. the commission is now in the process of setting up a special group to assist us in the drafting of this code. industry representatives, including the gaming industry, have been invited to apply. i thank you again for this report and thank you for your attention, of course. i am now looking forward to hearing your remarks and interventions.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union. it is time, because in it we call on the commission to come up with proposals, to come up with legislation to regulate this enormously important new sector in industry. right now, we're talking a lot about the negative aspects of video games, like child addiction, like consumer protection, like gambling on loot boxes. then we'll talk about the treasure chest in a game that you have to pay during the game to get to a higher level. i don't think that's right. i am glad that we are now asking the commission to come up with an assessment, a study, to see how we can eliminate this gambling. these loot boxes can be exciting. if we can pay for it with points we accumulate in the game, then it's part of the game. but not that young children should take their parents' credit cards to pay at the raffle box in the hope of getting ahead, for they may already become addicted to gambling. it is good that, in order to reduce these negative aspects, we are including the pegi conditions. now, we've mentioned the negative aspects, but i'd also like to mention the positive aspects of video games. first the economic. we know that video games right now are bigger than the movie and music industries combined. the turnover, the employment, is much higher and europe is playing a leading role in this. video games can play an important role in education. video games can solve the loneliness of the elderly. so we need to embrace video games in a positive way. we hope that the commission will come forward with proposals to remove the negative aspects, but that we will emphasize the positive aspects. i am therefore glad that we in parliament are going to look at the creation of a video game award, similar to the oscars; let's call them the europeans. that we can be proud of europe and that we can be proud of the developers that europe has, because we are leading the world in this.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. commissioner, colleagues, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. have you ever lost interest in hobbies and friends because all you wanted to do was play video games? or have you had periods where all you could think about was getting back into the game? and i think most of us in this room would say no, we haven't tried that. and it is not because we are better at resisting temptation but because we are not quite as young anymore. but the reality is different for our children and young people. in recent years, more and more children and young people have become addicted to computer games. and while my own generation may have a hard time relating to it, it does speak to a larger crisis that we have in our society, namely the whole well-being crisis. too many children and youths today suffer from loneliness, sleeping disorders, and depression. of course, not all of it is video games, but some of it is. we must therefore also look at ways of reducing the risk of addiction to video games. this could include demands for better parental controls, a ban on the use of dark patterns and other addictive patterns and, not least, a fight against so-called loot boxes. because it is not just your mental health that is at stake when addiction strikes. it's hitting our wallets, too. the pay for video games has changed quite considerably over the last 20 years. once, a game was bought in a store for a lump sum. today, many games use micropayments as loot boxes. this is where young people and children are being nudged to spend a lot of money on digital packages that can take them further in the game. what they have in common is that users do not actually know what they are playing, and they are often designed in a way that is familiar to casino games, such as roulette and one-armed bandits. it shouldn't be like this. we must not allow computer games to become children's casinos, and we must not allow children to be robbed when they use their computers, and that is why we must have this solved. i therefore thank the rapporteur for a very good own-initiative report and i hope that the european commission will help us to look at how we can find solutions together so that we can reduce gambling addiction without, of course, banning computer games. thank you!
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you get away with this. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. our companies, including polish ones, have a lot of experience and success in this area in the world, which we need to show and support. video games are not just a business, entertainment, or art form, but also a huge community of technology-savvy users who have rights and expectations. unfortunately, this report largely ignores this fact, exaggerating the importance of negative phenomena and suggesting more bureaucracy and more surveillance as the solution. a number of existing rules also apply to the gaming industry. the proposal for new sectoral legislation is unnecessary and could be very costly for businesses and for players themselves. the whole idea of gender balance in game design is kind of absurd. strong, creative and innovative european companies will not be built on new regulations, but on the education, investment and enthusiasm of young people, including game developers. let's not kill that enthusiasm by accepting reports like this.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the importance of the online gambling market has been discussed many times. we are dealing today with a subject of great relevance, especially for many young people in europe. the video game industry is one of the fastest growing creative industries, 24 billion in sales -- that's been talked about. every second european is involved, and that is why it is of great importance for us as members of the european parliament to deal with the content of the activities in these games, without making specifications, but to come to the commission with a mandate to examine and review not only the behaviour of the players, the incentives that are put there, but also the great opportunities for small and mediumsized enterprises to make economic progress in this area. existing consumer law must be applied and self-regulation should be encouraged. the report by mrs maldonado expresses this extremely well. i am also particularly grateful to our shadow rapporteur, mr antonius manders, for putting the protection of young consumers when buying so-called loot boxes at the centre of his attention. because of course young people want to expand the experience of playing, but at the same time it must be so that no false incentives are given and children and young people are put in a kind of incentive to go into debt just to succeed in a game. these are the points which we will have to study in depth with the commission in the coming months, and i look forward to further cooperation.
mr president, the online video sector, online video games, is the fastest growing cultural and creative sector in europe, responsible for thousands of jobs and even playing an important role in a market worth billions of euros. there is no doubt about the importance of this highly innovative digital sector for growth, for job creation, for europe's digital single market. however, we should in no way undermine the need for stronger consumer protection and better protection for gamers, especially children, from addictive and even manipulative gaming practices. online gaming is particularly prevalent among children, who are growing up in an environment of digital video games available on a variety of devices: from computers, to game consoles, to smartphones, and other screens. while online games are often a lot of fun and a good way to communicate with peers and others, there are risks that children can be exposed to a lot of harm and a lot of danger. i would therefore like to thank the s&d rapporteur, adriana, for asking the commission to consider new rules to better protect online video game players, in particular children.
in writing. – as we recovered from the covid-19 pandemic and prepared for the future, the european commission committed to delivering a strong european health union, where medical supplies are available, affordable and innovative. today, when we see respiratory infection viruses circulating with increasing transmission rates, we are still unprepared. we face a shortage of antibiotics and of medical devices caused also by brexit, a shortage in raw materials, logistical issues, particularly transportation, and a lack of economic incentives to produce them within the eu. hospitals in europe are again overrun with patients, including small children. it is both frightening and unacceptable that we do not have enough capacity to cure the sick and vulnerable. small children, our elderly and all those in need, should not be deprived of adequate, timely and affordable medicine and treatment. the lack of antibiotics and of life-sustaining medical devices are clear signs we need to reinforce our support for the innovation promised and for the entry on the market of medical devices. the health and lives of european citizens depend on infection prevention and control measures, on securing the supply of essential medicines and on our willingness to facilitate the union’s strategic pharmaceutical production.
mr president, the news on the uber files broke in the middle of the negotiation on the platform workers directive here in the european parliament. it was shocking to hear about how uber broke the law and used aggressive lobbying tactics to delay and block laws on labour and social rights. that’s why it has been particularly concerning to see how many colleagues here in this parliament have been echoing the voices of uber. there are also good examples of platform companies who deliver innovative services while ensuring labour rights, but they can’t compete with exploitation. the deal on the platform workers directive agreed with empl last december would allow for a level playing field for all the actors. it would also give social rights to 28 million platform workers all over the eu who desperately need it. don’t be fooled by this multimillion lobbying machine. we need to stand up for workers’ rights and fight against second— or third—class workers’ conditions.
mr president, this debate is very interesting and i take two lessons from it. the uber case: the first is what has been mentioned often here, the rules of lobbying in the european institutions and in europe in general. we have rules here, but this example clearly shows that they don't work completely and that the principle of transparency that must be associated with lobbying is not always met. so the question is how much to regulate lobbying to prevent the lobbyist from essentially forming the legislator's opinion or the legislator's opinion being replaced by the lobbyist's opinion. on the other hand, i say that lobbying as such, if it is transparent, regulated, if it brings information from some environment to a member who is free to decide on the basis of this information, it is important to say, in my opinion, should not be completely prohibited. it is a way for a legislator, who is supposed to have his own moral integrity, to obtain information for his decisions. so let's talk about how to adjust the regulation if necessary. on the other hand, as one of my colleagues has already said, it would be wrong to throw a child out of the bathtub next to the water and to put lobbying as such in a grey area and exclude it completely. regulation is necessary, but it cannot be a complete ban, in my opinion. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the use of the platforms are fully complied with. a lot of things have fallen here. there were questions about 'employees' or drivers who work for uber. i'm all for them getting some legal protection. but what i see as important is that these platforms are disrupting equity in the business environment. i see in my city, prague, uber is disrupting the taxi environment. a taxi driver as a professional has to meet certain conditions, whereas uber doesn't have to meet those conditions. and that's also important: a level playing field for the business environment that the platforms can't disrupt.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what more do we need to do? we've had a cascade of revelations from the international consortium of journalists on the methods of uber thugs. we have a whistleblower, mr. mark macgann, formerly uber's chief lobbyist, who exposed uber's illegal activities between 2013 and 2017. in 2017, i myself, here, denounced in the transport committee of the parliament the fraudulent methods of uber to influence a study of the parliament. do you know what they did? they posed as independent researchers. they co-wrote the study. the result: uber is cited 130 times in the study, which was a study on the collaborative economy in transport. let's be serious, this is called thuggish methods and it is the employees who drink behind, who are underpaid and without social protection. so let's see what our belgian friends are doing: the brussels parliament last week ordered the constitution of a special committee to lift the veil on uber's networks of influence. europe has been struck to the heart, a committee of inquiry will be... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, the uber files are another example of why a sound framework on transparency and lobbying is crucial to safeguard the integrity of the public decision—making process. not all lobbying is bad, and not all platforms are bad, but when a company like uber has unlimited resources and prefers to spend millions of euros to strategically lobby high—ranking politicians to gain a market advantage, while disregarding their drivers’ working conditions and their well—being, or when they work to block legislation that aims to ensure the bare minimum protection for its workers, decent pay and health insurance, instead of investing the same resources in providing decent working conditions and well—being to its people. when a company prefers to spend millions of euros for expensive law firms to drown their workers in legal fees and continue finding ways to deny their basic human rights, when a company engages in immoral practices by using fake identities, trying to infiltrate the account of its drivers so it can monitor them and stop them from unionising, when a company consciously takes such decisions to avoid responsibility and undermine employment standards, thus giving rise to precarious forms of employment, labour exploitation, tax fraud at the expense of powerless workers, then there is something wrong and undemocratic happening. platforms like uber did not invent this form of employment. they are simply using ways to avoid the costs and responsibilities that they should abide by as employers. that is why i urge you, we must ensure that this imbalance is corrected, and that the platform economy must uphold the application of labour law and labour rights. to this end, we need a strong directive for improving working conditions in platform work that protects the rights of platform workers, irrespective of their type of employment or from where they are located in the eu.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european hell machine is running at full speed. in disregard of the social emergency and against all common sense, the european union is asking us to revise the directive on european works councils. what a deal! all this to add to the technocratic jumble of gender quotas, some unnecessary clarifications and penalties for the most recalcitrant. in short, while europe is sinking deeper into the economic crisis and is beset by immigration that is massing at our borders and does not hesitate to break down the door by entering illegally, we are now paying for the luxury of refining european directives. we cannot accept that brussels should indulge in all its whims, because they are whims. indeed, the feedback on the ground is very clear since the stakeholders see no interest in this revision. worse, while our businesses need oxygen to grow, we refuse to add even more unnecessary bureaucracy. compelling companies to organise information meetings and set up committees... but we're stepping on our heads! for us, it is very clear: national labour law takes precedence over everything else. as soon as a french worker is covered in france, he is subject to french law. it's very simple, very, very simple. yet the european union complicates matters when the situation is self-evident. we refuse to waste precious time when there are priorities. we have to do our jobs, our businesses, our know-how. that's all you have to do. the french expect us - i speak for the french, since it is my country - to defend them, not to pretend to play the european officials who change commas in reports and put directives on the "wokiste hour". let's get this straight. we fight for our countries, i, for france, and for nothing else. that's why it's so easy to understand.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal to extend the directive on committees of in dustry operating in europe, with its vague definitions, we do not know exactly what they are, is a delicate point, it interferes with national legislation and attacks, once again, the freedom of enterprise. it is intended to regulate which companies should exist, what composition they should have or how their influence should be without taking into account the business culture of each country. unjustified intrusion by the workers would lead to more conflict, the breakdown of social peace and even the blocking of activity. we are of course in favour of a harmonious dialogue between workers and employers, so that both the social and the business aspects are to the benefit of all and generate prosperity. we have just celebrated the 30th anniversary of our single market, but legal uncertainty, bureaucratic obstacles and abusive political interference are reducing it, stifling the aspirations of any entrepreneur and entrepreneur. we give wings to entrepreneurship, to freedom of enterprise. the development of the vocation of each person to serve the common good is necessary. we trust the human being. we are able to find creative solutions that are a real economic and social driver. let us rid ourselves of ideologies that are imposed to nullify the human spirit.
mr president let's make two things clear at the outset: one, the current directive works relatively well. the european commission has received only one formal complaint in this regard. secondly, the european parliament is again in a dilemma when it wants to initiate legislation. why do you have to ride the horse backwards? right now, because of the failed sanctions policy, the cost of living in europe is skyrocketing. ladies and gentlemen, yes, it is important to better implement the provisions of the directive, but this is not the first time i have seen that they want to solve these problems by rewriting legislation rather than looking at how the current professionally sound framework could be better implemented. therefore, in my view, this proposal is unjustified.
mr president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, if we want a successful green and digital transition, it is crucial that we involve the workers in decision—making. when workers are empowered to shape decisions, we know that productivity, innovation and working methods improve. good governance requires more democracy at work, and strong trade unions are playing a key role related to health and safety measures, in job retention schemes and organising new trends like telework. so empowering trade unions also strengthens social europe. reinforcing the european works council directive when it comes to the right to information and consultation for representatives of employees – and particularly, as we heard yesterday again, during restructuring processes – is an absolute necessity and an incredible tool to strengthen the role of employees vis—à—vis employers in policy—making on the daily life cycle of the company. the recast directive on the european works council failed in its original objectives. indeed, employers can easily stall or completely block the establishment of a european works council. european works councils are often informed after final decisions have already been taken and transnational and confidentiality clauses are too often misused. so it is now time to solve this issue with legally binding changes by ensuring timely and meaningful consultation; clarifying the scope of confidentiality; improving dispute resolution; introducing effective, dissuasive and proportionate penalties, but also by granting access to justice for the representatives of workers and securing resources and access to trade union experts and support. companies have to show their willingness to work in close cooperation with their workforce and the unions in order to make the digital and green transition a success for all. the implementation of the european works council directive has been ongoing for 15 years already, without enough concluding results and successes. the european commission can no longer hide behind case studies and recommendations. it is time to deliver now and to turn this report into concrete legislative proposals. dennis radtke and the shadow rapporteurs did a fantastic job. thank you so much, dennis, for having invited so many participants who know how it works on the ground. they told us where corrections were needed and you did it in your report, so thank you very much.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. as a member of the committee on social affairs and employment, i have been a strong advocate of workers' rights, including their right to information and consultation, since the beginning of my mandate. as the resolution notes, the success and positive impact of european works councils is based on trust and constructive dialogue between the board and the company's management. therefore, we should strengthen these aspects and not look at societies a priori as if they were aiming to violate the principles of democracy in the workplace. i therefore disagree with the proposed introduction of the right to request an interim measure to suspend the execution of management decisions, which can lead, in certain circumstances, to abuse and thus to the paralysis of the whole of society. i also think that the question of so-called gender quotas for works councils is superfluous in the context of the revision of the directive. again, i'm making my argument that this kind of approach underestimates me as a woman. and the quotas are rather counterproductive. and i think that they may also result in additional discrimination against women mothers against other women. last but not least, i also disagree with the draconian sanctions proposed in this text, which include excluding the company from subsidies, public contracts or european funds. this is with the cumulative effect of the company's obligation to pay all administrative and legal costs regardless of who is successful in the proceedings, which will constitute an additional financial burden. i am of the opinion that companies have no problem meeting their obligations under a well-functioning system, but disproportionate penalties do not really help to achieve this well-functioning. however, i fully support the revision of the directive on the establishment of a european works council and believe that it can help protect workers' rights in a sound and balanced approach.
mr president, mr commissioner schmit, we can never have full rights for our workers if they are not and if they do not have full participation in decision-making. we have a situation where we have 10 million workers working with multinational companies that are represented by the european works council. the situation is that we have legislation that does not, in the end, take into account the realities that workers are facing in a globalised world, in a digital world. we have a situation where we have redundant sanctions. we have information rights that are very low and do not make sense in our realities. we have rights where workers are supposed to be involved in decision-making, which are often not being enforced. and we have a system of dialogue that is not effective in the face of disagreement. and so it is important to be brave and see that we upgrade the legislation governing the works council on a european basis. and then it is bad luck. we are fortunate to be in this situation and fortunate to hear a number of colleagues speaking out against the proposal that mep radtke has also put forward so that we can finally have these rights strengthened. and so i thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the work they have done. and finally, i would appeal, especially to my colleagues in the people's group, to endorse the work done by the committee on employment with this report, which is so important for giving a voice to all european workers.
we hope, mr president, that the council will finally arrive at a binding european framework for legal migration and asylum protection for those who need it, on the basis of solidarity and 'finally' addressing the root causes. but now the frontline member states are shouldering the whole burden, social and economic, on their own. in the eastern mediterranean in particular, illegal migration has an institutional, organised smuggler named erdogan's turkey, which illegally occupies 37% of the territory of the european union's cyprus. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i shall end, mr president, with a number: in cyprus we now have over 10% of illegal immigrants and asylum seekers. this for the population of germany corresponds to about 8.5 million people.
mr president, madam minister, commissioner, of course, as the president said, the migration problem must be solved -- we hear these things, at least i've heard them since 2014 -- i think not with fences, as was said here, because that would be a return to the primitive, i think with very clear measures, with very clear implementation, with very clear procedures in which we define what illegal migration means. i'm a humanist in my country, in a humanist party, and i want to help every human being who can be helped, but we also don't have to sell illusions that we're moving continents to europe. here we have to be very clear and i think i understand the annoyance of the member states where the illegal migrants have arrived, but i do not think we have to solve one injustice with another injustice and the deliberate confusion made by austria, by which it invokes migration as a reason not to go between romania and bulgaria, is actually a violation of the regulation. and i ask the swedish presidency, madam minister, and i ask you, commissioner, you know romania very well, not to confuse things any further: a european regulation that has been voted on is binding on all the member states, and therefore also on austria.
member of the commission. – mr president, dear minister, honourable members, this debate provided – and it was not really a surprise – almost the full spectrum of views of what our european approach to migration could be. president ursula von der leyen presented the important figures candidly. yes, irregular crossings are up by over 60% in 2022. tragically, innocent lives continue to be lost. no, not all of these arrivings are in need of protection. of those not in need of protection, indeed too few are returned. asylum procedures take too long. that is why we continue to push hard for a common and structural solution and today’s debate showed again that such a solution is necessarily complex. in terms of legislation, we need to complete the new pact on migration and asylum. we need more cooperation between eu member states and speedier domestic procedures. we need to further strengthen our partnerships with those third countries most concerned, including through visa policy, trade and investment cooperation. as ursula von der leyen showed earlier that there is momentum and concrete progress. we have proven to be able to respond to sudden demands through the instrumentalisation of persons by belarus, the situation in the western balkans and the triggering of temporary protection for ukrainians. over time we have developed a migration and border management toolbox. we have stronger agencies and we have improved coordination. i am grateful for the clear message of ambition and support heard from the swedish council presidency. all of us are aware that this is a priority for europeans, independently from which angle they look at the very complex challenges of migration. we owe them to keep building a comprehensive solution which leads us to cover all the different aspects, uphold the law, control borders, save lives and provide opportunities, indeed, for legal migrants and our partner countries.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you for your remarks and your comments. you have really raised many important aspects of migration. it is, as many said, a complex and sensitive issue as to how we can develop a sustainable solution in the area of asylum and migration. as mentioned by the commission president and several of you, we are currently facing a large number of irregular migrants. during the informal meeting of the ministers of justice and home affairs last week in stockholm, the ministers discussed the external dimension of migration. there were interesting discussions on returns, readmission and external borders. it is important that we continue moving forward with this work. regarding the pact on migration and asylum, we are all aware that the negotiations of the pact will be difficult and are difficult and sensitive and that this will require time. the negotiations within council have been progressing at a very good pace and much progress was made last year. many of you have asked for the council to deliver, but i would also like to recall that the european parliament must do its part also to adopt its negotiating mandate before negotiations on all the files can be initiated. one such case is the return directive. since the beginning of the swedish presidency, work has started on the legislative text on the asylum and migration management regulation. we are confident that there is a general willingness among all the member states to make progress and agree on a system which would provide solidarity and alleviate the burden of the effect on member states and improve the functioning of the current system, including addressing secondary movements. we recall that the joint roadmap agreed between the five rotating presidencies and the european parliament foresees an agreement on all legislative proposals by the end of the 2019-2024 legislature. we will do our best to make this happen. thank you again for the debate. the presidency we will convey this to the european council.
in writing. – it is high time that the eu delivers a credible migration and asylum policy, suitable to face the increasing challenges, with sustainable and long-lasting solutions. as one of the border member states, my own country, malta, has, on the one hand, constantly witnessed people fleeing for a better hope and future, sometimes ending up in sad tragedy, and, on the other hand, seen irregular migration which requires a more efficient returns system to counter it. i cannot stress enough the importance of our commitment and efforts to address this. despite being on the agenda for so long, however, proper solidarity within the eu has failed. the eu is not acting effectively to avoid these tragedies, and is not ensuring adequate measures to alleviate the disproportionate burden from those at the border. commission president von der leyen stressed today that migration is a european challenge that requires a european response. however, a european response must embody effective solidarity, which cannot appropriately take place without mandatory burden-sharing mechanisms.
mr president, i am fascinated at first by the fact that, on a subject such as the year of the war in ukraine, my colleagues from the epp are embarrassingly using it to attack us as their political opponents. but i think we also need to talk about things like the sacrifice of european union citizens living on the border with ukraine, specifically, for example, citizens of the slovak republic, poland, but also romania, who opened their homes and helped as volunteers and helped the refugees who came from ukraine, women and children. and indeed, many times, it was people who didn't have much of their own and gave their last to help these refugees when the government couldn't. so i want to thank them very much and bring them into this discussion, because it's very important to see what people really think. and i think these people don't want to talk about guns, they want to talk about peace. and so i think that we, as politicians, should also talk about the fact that a peace project like the european union should offer peace to the fighting in ukraine and help to end this war. because the death and suffering of those women and children who die every day in ukraine is terrible.
member of the commission. – mr president, high representative, honourable members, first of all, let me thank this house for today’s debate and for your interventions, because this is an important moment – an emotional one, too, and a moment of determination. it was important to have this debate. today, it gives us – the european commission, the european parliament and the council – an opportunity to strongly reconfirm our full support to ukraine, to reiterate our unconditional solidarity, and to do everything it takes – as long as it takes – to undermine russia’s war machine. each of us – literally everyone – remembers where we were when we heard the horrible news one year ago. i remember very well. i never imagined a moment in my life that i will wake up my wife and say ‘the war has started’. the first thing we did was call our parents, but by that time they were already somewhere deep in shelter. i will never forget those hours waiting for their reply. unfortunately, those hours will stick deep in me for many, many years. 24 february 2022 changed this world. it changed each and every one of us. and we would probably not have imagined that we would stand here today having this debate 357 days into a brutal war. mariupol, bakhmut – once thriving, beautiful european cities. today, they don’t exist. from the very beginning, putin’s condition for peace – so-called peace – was to wipe out ukraine: their culture, their tradition, their people. are you ready to look ukrainian children in the eye and say that rape and loot is their future? because that would mean the future of our children, too. so let me say again: today’s debate was important: we cannot repeat and reconfirm our support and solidarity often enough. any support of ours will never match the sacrifice of the ukrainian nation. president von der leyen has made it very clear that we will continue as long as it takes to keep ukrainians’ dream of freedom alive. to praise the legendary bravery of the ukrainian people. to bring ukraine closer to victory and closer to the european union, where they truly belong. we continue to bring our markets closer, our towns and our cities, our people. we have built bridges and we continue to build more of them – building the ukrainians’ european future together. and reconstruction is going to be another chance to show true european solidarity – build ukraine back even better, greener and stronger. rebuild the beauty of ukraine. we need to lay the groundwork for a green reconstruction, also holding russia accountable for all damage that they have done. and i truly hope that in one year this debate will be about our efforts to rebuild ukraine. honourable members, president von der leyen has said it: ukraine’s dreams of freedom are stronger than ever. i can only confirm this. i can confirm this personally. today’s debate has sent a very strong message. we will help ukraine so that these dreams one day become a reality. we will stand united. we will not allow putin to divide us. his attempts to divide us have failed, and we will make sure they will never succeed. because today has shown again that we are united in our firm belief that ukraine’s future will be a european one. we owe this unity to ukraine, to their children and to our children, too. thank you. slava ukraini!
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, for the council. – mr president, i thank you and all the members who are following this debate. thank you, colleagues. mr president, for this debate to make full sense, i should be able to try to answer what i heard from the members that intervened, because they said very interesting things. i ask for your help if i take some minutes more, because i have to answer and you have to share your views. otherwise, it’s not a debate. i will switch to spanish as it will be quicker... algunos de ustedes han dicho que no reaccionamos después de crimea. right. es verdad. después de crimea pusimos unas cuantas sanciones económicas, no demasiadas, y seguimos comprando gas ruso, aumentando nuestra dependencia de rusia y construyendo el nord stream. es cierto. pero la historia no se rebobina. no vamos a resolver los problemas de hoy flagelándonos por los errores de ayer. los asumimos y los corregimos. otra observación que he oído: zelenski tiene una lista de compras. viene aquí pidiendo tanques, aviones, municiones. sí, claro, ¿y qué harían ustedes si estuvieran en su lugar? vendrían a cualquier parte a pedir ayuda, y la ayuda consiste en eso. las armas matan. sí. weapons kill. yes, they are done for that. y sabemos que nuestra ayuda militar también, desgraciadamente, causa bajas. el problema con zelenski es que le sobran aplausos y le faltan municiones. va largo de aplausos y de slava ukraini, pero sus soldados no tienen municiones para continuar batallando. ¿saben por qué? porque los aplausos son gratis y un leopard cuesta 10 millones de euros. ¿por qué no nos miramos a los ojos y decimos que sí, que muy bien, pero que hay que hacer más y comprometerse más? deberíamos poner sobre la mesa recursos adicionales para sacar de los cuarteles los tanques parados, para movilizarlos y que vayan a ucrania antes de que rusia lance su ofensiva de primavera-verano. esto, señoras y señores diputados, es lo que estamos discutiendo. ustedes tienen un papel aquí que desempeñar. el mío es mantener a los estados miembros unidos. porque todas las sanciones se aprueban por unanimidad y cada euro que sale del fondo europeo de apoyo a la paz es por unanimidad. tengo que mantener a veintisiete estados unidos y, créanme, no es siempre fácil. a veces tenemos que hacer excepciones y tenemos que aceptar comportamientos que no nos gustan porque tenemos que mantener la unidad. también ustedes pueden ayudar con eso. algunos han dicho —lo acepto y asumo— que hay que hacer más y más deprisa. hay que convencer a las opiniones públicas europeas de la necesidad de hacerlo. otros han criticado el excesivo incrementalismo de nuestra ayuda. comparto esta crítica. si hubiéramos hecho antes algunas cosas que hacemos ahora, habríamos ahorrado vidas y habría sido más fácil la defensa de ucrania. algunos creen que la solución pasa por parar la ayuda militar —algunos que ya no están aquí para escuchar la réplica—. yo, francamente, no entiendo cómo desde la izquierda se puede decir que la solución pasa por dejar de ayudar militarmente a ucrania. no, no lo entiendo. no entiendo el «filoputinismo» o la extrema ingenuidad de los que piensan eso desde la izquierda —y tengo amigos que lo piensan y algunos de ellos me producen un gran respeto intelectual—. pero ¿de verdad creen que, si dejáramos a ucrania sin las municiones que necesitan cada día o cada hora para seguir defendiéndose, eso llevaría a putin a una mesa de negociación? ¿o le llevaría a aumentar su ofensiva militar? pongan los pies en el suelo, por favor. pongan los pies en el suelo. a mí me duele tanto como a ustedes cualquier muerto que cualquier arma causa. pero si queremos que la guerra dure menos, la solución no es ayudar menos a ucrania. la solución es ayudarla más y más deprisa. la guerra dura porque está en un empate, un empate que tiene que deshacerse. las sanciones tienen que ayudar a eso. ha habido mucha crítica a los efectos de las sanciones. insisto: si alguien pensó que las sanciones económicas conseguirían de la noche a la mañana que putin no pudiera seguir financiando la guerra, vivía también en otro mundo. la sanción tiene un efecto lento pero seguro y las cifras cantan. sí, señorías, las cifras cantan. el año pasado fue un año extraordinariamente bueno para la hacienda rusa, porque los precios de la energía se dispararon y nosotros todavía dependíamos de ella. pero este año las cifras dicen que sus ingresos están cayendo, que su déficit aumenta y su déficit comercial también. la dependencia tecnológica de europa empieza a surtir sus efectos, luego hay que seguir por este camino. otros han planteado que, a fin de cuentas, solo la otan cuenta a la hora de defender europa. eso plantea de nuevo el debate sobre la responsabilidad estratégica de europa. sí, la otan juega un papel fundamental en la defensa territorial de europa. sí. pero eso no nos exime de nuestra responsabilidad, que pasa por tener capacidades militares que no tenemos. porque nos habíamos acostumbrado al sueño de la paz y habíamos dejado de tener nuestros almacenes llenos por si acaso venía la guerra. la guerra ha venido y hay que hacerle frente. y también ustedes han hablado. la presidenta ha hablado de irán y ha hecho muy bien en recordar el papel de este país en el apoyo militar a rusia. pero también tenemos que tener en cuenta cómo piensa el resto del mundo. lo veremos la semana que viene en las naciones unidas. porque no todo el mundo piensa como nosotros, ni valora igual las causas o las consecuencias de esta guerra. yo tengo la suerte de poder entrevistarme con líderes de áfrica, de américa latina y del sudeste asiático. muchos se han creído la propaganda rusa, la desinformación de que los precios de la energía y de los alimentos son consecuencia de nuestras sanciones. hay que hacer una gran tarea pedagógica para explicar que no es así. ¿cómo se puede decir que el precio del alimento sube cuando el que lo dice está bloqueando con sus barcos de guerra la salida de 20 millones de toneladas de trigo de ucrania? esa batalla contra la desinformación también hay que hacerla. porque, nos guste o no, hay todavía en áfrica un sentimiento anticolonial y en américa latina un sentimiento antiimperialista que hacen que muchos de sus líderes y de sus habitantes miren a esta guerra con unos ojos distintos de los nuestros. la verdad es poliédrica y no tenemos que imponer nuestra verdad, sino convencer con argumentos y con razones. yo he procurado traerles cifras a este debate porque creo que esa es la base del argumento sobre el cual tenemos que basar nuestras políticas. yo nunca he visto ningún país que tuviera en la idea de europa una esperanza existencial tan grande como la que tiene ucrania. europa siempre ha sido, para los pueblos que han vivido en dictaduras faltos de libertad —como el mío— un faro en la noche que guiaba nuestra voluntad y futuro. pero nunca he visto un país para el que fuera tan existencial la pertenencia a la unión europea como lo es para ucrania. et c'est pour cela que cette promesse européenne, nous devons la supporter sans oublier que le chemin sera long et difficile, parce que pour gagner la paix, d'abord il faut gagner la guerre. mais quand je dis qu'il faut gagner la guerre cela ne veut pas dire qu'on oublie le travail diplomatique pour trouver la paix. repito: no son dos cosas contrarias ni alternativas. no digan que para negociar la paz hay que dejar de ayudar militarmente a ucrania. digan que hay que hacer las dos cosas a la vez. digan que hemos de empezar a pensar cómo será el orden de seguridad en europa cuando esta guerra acabe. ¿cuál será el papel de europa? porque no me gustaría que la guerra se acabara de la mano de china, de turquía y de estados unidos solos. ahora tenemos que empezar a pensar de qué manera reconstruiremos no solo la ucrania destruida, sino la cooperación y la comunicación en el continente europeo. probablemente necesitaremos nuevos líderes en rusia que asuman su responsabilidad por lo que han hecho y sean capaces de llevar a su país hacia la reconciliación y hacia un futuro común, como hubo en europa líderes después de la segunda guerra mundial que fueron capaces de reconciliar y reconstruir. en eso también nos tenemos que emplear ahora. todos, ustedes también. señorías, este debate para mí ha sido muy importante porque me ha hecho ver cómo todavía hay miembros de este parlamento que creen que lo que estamos haciendo no es lo correcto. me gustaría que me dijeran ¿cuál es la alternativa? que me miren a los ojos y me digan que aceptan que las tropas rusas entren en kiev y que instalen allí un régimen como el de bielorrusia. porque esta sería la consecuencia si parásemos nuestra ayuda militar a ucrania. como eso no lo queremos, tenemos que seguir empleando nuestras sanciones, ese veneno lento que mina las bases de una economía. tenemos que seguir apoyando militarmente a ese país, siendo menos incrementalistas, siendo más rápidos y asumiendo más riesgos. déjenme que les diga que estamos en una guerra. no la hacemos nosotros. nuestros jóvenes no van a morir a kiev. pero es una guerra que nos afecta porque de su resultado depende nuestra seguridad. todavía no tenemos ese mindset —esa mentalidad— de afrontar, como dice el presidente macron, une économie de guerre. no, todavía no la tenemos. y hemos de tenerla, si bien no en nuestra vida cotidiana —afortunadamente—, sí al menos en el momento de tomar decisiones políticas como las que tenemos que tomar y que espero que este parlamento apoye.
i thank the high representative borrell and, of course, all those who took part in the debate. i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 16 february 2023. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. in a tragic irony of fate, by starting this war against ukraine, putin has in effect signed russia's doom on the scale of history. this war is the end of russia as we knew it by 2022: a strategic partner of the eu, a member of international organizations and a business partner for the western world. hundreds of thousands of russians left russia and became refugees, frightened by mobilization and political repression. but it seems to be backed by oligarchs. they lost huge fortunes because of the war, but they're quiet. according to social research, a year after the invasion of ukraine, putin would not win the election today. here's a quick summary of this year's war. in the mirror, we have a ukraine led by the "moral leader of the democratic world", volodymyr zelenskiy, a country fighting heroically for its european future, and a european union honored to open its gates to this brave people. the eu will not know peace until all those guilty of the crimes in ukraine are brought to justice for all these broken lives.
in writing. it's been a year since the illegal invasion of ukraine. a year in which the aggression of the russian federation caused suffering, the death of tens of thousands of people, the exodus of millions of people and amplified the challenges we face at european level. according to recent data, three quarters of european citizens support eu aid to ukraine, but the threat has not passed. ukraine's independence and our common values are still in danger. we need to protect the citizens of ukraine while pushing the ukrainian government to major reforms and compliance with european regulatory requirements, such as the protection of minority rights and environmental criteria. we also need to look at the states bordering ukraine, which are not eu member states and are experiencing significant difficulties. for example, the eu candidate country moldova needs support, facing multiple economic, social and military challenges as a result of the war and a direct threat from the russian federation. at the same time, we must be mindful of the negative effects of war on citizens, and ensure that they are protected from risks through active measures to strengthen the resilience and capacity of european society. we still face major challenges arising from this conflict to which we have a duty to respond in solidarity.
in writing. it is of the utmost importance to support the provision of military assistance to ukraine for as long as necessary. member states should seriously consider providing kiev with fighter aircraft, helicopters and suitable missile systems. member states should also significantly increase their consignments of ammunition. ukraine must be able to defend itself and regain control over all its internationally recognised territory. the ten-pack of sanctions against russia and its allies is due to enter into force as early as the end of february, with a substantial extension of the scope of the sanctions. in addition, it is necessary to strengthen the enforcement of sanctions previously imposed and to prevent their circumvention. in the future, there is an urgent need to develop a legal framework that allows the confiscation of russian assets frozen in the eu and their use for the reconstruction of ukraine and the compensation of victims of russian aggression. when the war ends, russia will be forced to pay large reparations to fund the reconstruction of ukraine. i welcome the appointment of ukraine as a candidate country for eu membership. the parties should start accession negotiations this year, taking into account the procedures, criteria and conditions of the results-based accession process.
in writing. i condemn once again and strongly the unprovoked and unprecedented russian aggression against the ukrainian people. the russian terrorist regime has been committing war crimes for a year by targeting civilians and critical infrastructure. all these crimes must be properly documented and the perpetrators duly punished. the european union must not relent in its aid to the ukrainian people, whether humanitarian, economic or military, on the contrary, we must increase it. i stress that the ukrainians are not only fighting for their freedom, but for the freedom of all democratic europe, and we must provide them with everything they need for this defence.
in writing. february 24 marks the one-year anniversary of the day russia launched a full-scale offensive against neighboring ukraine. again and again, it must be remembered that russia has been at war with ukraine for nine years. he has been involved in the separatist 'governmental' activities of the so-called 'government of the donetsk people's republic'. there are many lessons from the past year. the most important of these are: ukraine demonstrates every day and every hour that it is possible to fight against a superior military adversary. the fear of russia that the putin regime has cultivated for the last 20 years and practically all of russia's existence, must be confronted and fought. ukraine is fighting for its existence, for the survival of the state and the nation. while we like to think that we have crossed a number of important thresholds in europe and made great strides in helping ukraine, it has unfortunately not been enough. we need more, longer-range weapons and ammunition. ukraine uses more munitions in a single day than all the nato countries can produce in weeks. this situation must change. europe, the west more broadly, must think about a strategy to help ukraine win this war, because otherwise russia will continue its imperialist pursuits through violence against its neighbors. today, there can be no doubt that the aim of the russian regime in power is to make history of the existing western security architecture. this can't happen.
the agenda includes the discussion of the council and commission statements on the green deal industrial plan for the net zero emission era (2023/2559 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you for the opportunity to address this chamber. today, we are witnessing uncertain times in europe and globally. this is putting our economies under intense strain and requires new ways of thinking and decisive collective action. that is why today’s debate about the commission’s communication on a green deal industrial plan is very timely. the commission’s plans provide a basis for us to reflect on what we need to do in the short term to strengthen our industrial and technological base. we also need to analyse further the potential negative consequences of actions taken by other global actors. but, even more importantly, we cannot simply react to external events. if we want the eu to be a leader in clean tech and other fields, we have to be proactive and get serious about strengthening our productivity in the long term. therefore, it is essential that we start work on removing barriers for productivity and enhancing investments in clean and digital technologies. predictable and competitive conditions for our companies across the eu will help us to become the frontrunner of the green and digital transition. with this purpose in mind, the special european council last week underlined the need to intensify the work along several strands of action. for instance, we need to simplify the regulatory framework and shorten administrative procedures. this is crucial to ensure that we have the necessary manufacturing capacity to reach the eu’s climate—neutral goals. to ensure a successful green and digital transition in europe, we need to equip citizens with the appropriate skills. we have to take ambitious action to provide education, training, upskilling and reskilling. in order to grow and thrive, businesses also need access to capital. existing eu funds can play a part, but even more important is private investment. therefore, we need to finalise the capital markets union to make sure that europe can remain a continent of production and innovation. but we cannot stop at europe’s borders. to be world—leading, european companies must have access to world markets. thus, the european council stressed the importance of supporting the wto and the multilateral rules—based system for trade. fair and transparent free trade and investment agreements should allow resilient and reliable supply chains to develop and the european union to access new markets. these are fundamental pillars for drawing up a green deal industrial plan for a net—zero age. last but not least, let me add that we look forward to the commission’s proposal for a long—term strategy at the eu level to boost competitiveness and productivity. working on the long—term challenges of increasing productivity will be crucial for attracting investment, as well as safeguarding our businesses’ and industries’ ability to compete globally. this is a discussion that we will come back to many times during the spring and indeed in the coming years. it is about making our economy more futureproof and recovering the lost ground. despite the pressing issues of the day, this is a challenge we must tackle now.
member of the commission. – madam president, good morning colleagues and good morning minister. i think we all know that this is a decisive decade, that by 2030 we plan to cut emissions by 55%, and that this work started three years ago with the european green deal. we set out a very detailed roadmap, fit for 55, and we accelerated our work with next generation eu using eur 800 billion—worth of investment to emerge from the pandemic with a stronger, more sustainable europe. russia’s war of aggression requires us to accelerate again this work, as putin is weaponising his country’s energy exports in a failed attempt to weaken our resolve. but this is a difficult time for european citizens, for families and businesses. europe is being tested by war, by geopolitical tensions, by trade rivalries and climate change. we need to show that we can step up to these challenges and we need to continue to show our resolve as we work towards 2030 and net zero by 2050. half the emissions we need to cut by 2050 depend on technology not yet ready for market, or technology that does not yet exist. that is a challenge, but it is also an opportunity. the eu’s net—zero startups were worth over eur 100 billion in 2021, twice as much as they were worth the year before, and that will keep growing: economic growth, competitiveness and innovation, on the one hand; sustainability on the other. these objectives are not in conflict. but we need the right environment in europe to make sure these goals support and build on each other. on 1 february, the commission presented a green deal industrial plan to make europe the home of clean tech and innovation on the road to net zero. it is built on four pillars: the regulatory environment, financing, skills and trade. and i want to just briefly go through those four pillars. first, on the regulatory environment, this is about speed and access. we need to enable the clean—tech industry to scale up and to scale up fast. we know that companies complain that permitting is too slow and there are too many barriers to bringing innovations to market. so one of our main measures will be a new net zero industry act that will, for example, look at how to fast—track permitting for clean—tech production sites. second, financing – money. we need to speed up investment in clean—tech production. we will adopt our state aid rules to speed up and simplify processes on a temporary basis for the decarbonisation of industries and for sectors we need to reach net zero. we will have easier calculations, simpler procedures and accelerated approvals. but we will also pay attention to the level playing field in the single market. not all member states have the same capacity to use state aid. as we mark 30 years of that single market, we should recognise the value of our state aid rules for all member states, big and small. so our temporary rules will allow for time—limited, proportionate and targeted state aid where that’s necessary to roll out renewable energy, decarbonise industry and support investment in strategic sectors for net zero. public funding is important, but it will not by itself be sufficient. the bulk of the money to fund green tax and clean tax will not come from the public purse, but from private investors. the us has the inflation reduction act, but it also has thriving capital markets that secure the country’s competitiveness. here in the european union we need the same: we need the capital markets union and we need to accelerate our work. and i want to thank colleagues in this house who are working hard on our proposals for cmu, because it is about allowing businesses to access more sources of funding as they start out. it’s about making sure that startups born in europe can scale up in europe. it’s about giving investors more opportunities to invest in different projects and companies, including green tech and clean tech. the third part of the green deal industrial plan is skills. we cannot do any of this work without the necessary people. we need people to drive the clean—tech revolution. we will need 800 000 skilled workers by 2025 in the battery industry; 1 million skilled workers by 2030 in the solar industry, twice as many as there are today. this is a chance to create well-paying, skilled jobs for the future. and this is the absolute priority in this european year of skills. fourth, and finally, we are focusing on trade because we want to deliver net zero at the global level. we need strong and resilient supply chains to access raw materials, to open up markets for our products. we need an ambitious trade agenda, making the most of the deals that we have and closing deals that we are negotiating. so in closing, president, honourable members, i know we face challenging times, but it is in times like this that the european union does its best work. i look forward to your views on how we can turn this green deal industrial plant into a reality so that europe reaches net zero by 2050 and leads the way as a net zero industrial powerhouse.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2020, the commission proudly announced a new industrial policy to implement the european green deal as a growth strategy. yet it took a loud bang from the us to wake up the von der leyen commission. three years later, they finally woke up to the fact that simply placing fit for 55 regulation is not enough. we need a business case for the european industry that the industrial transition will be a success. the epp group welcomes, therefore, the green deal industrial plan, but the epp group really wants to make sure that the von der leyen commission hears this final warning shot loud and clear. so far, the commission approach has to be too prescriptive, too ideological, and too much focused on regulating the demand side of the european market. technology neutrality was an afterthought rather than a leading principle. what we need is a serious effort to create a regulatory framework that gives our industry certainty and freedom to innovate and invest. this requires simple, fast, predictable decisions on state aid and permitting, for example, and domestic sourcing of raw materials. productivity is our industry’s competitive advantage, not even mentioned in the statement from the commission. our social and energy costs are among the highest in the world, but so is also the quality of our scientists and engineers. we need to address these high costs, but most importantly, we need to unleash the potential of our innovation—driven productivity growth. to ensure our competitiveness on the global market we also need an ambitious free trade agenda, and yes, we want to ratify the pending trade agreements. if the von der leyen commission realises what needs to happen, the european economy can thrive and provide quality jobs for our citizens also in the future. and only if our economy thrives, the european green deal can be a success.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the race for subsidies has begun. the united states, china, japan or india are all in the same competition. it is good that allied countries like the united states are committed to the transition to a world without emissions. but the european union cannot tolerate unfair practices which violate the rules of the world trade organization. the time has come to react. we've fallen behind in sectors like microchip manufacturing or the digital world. not one of the digital giants or the big social networks is european. the green deal industrial plan presented by the european commission cannot be a missed opportunity. their current approach ignores the rights of the working class and their funding is in limbo. we must seize the decisive moment of the green and digital revolution to modernise our economy. the most urgent thing is a reform of the electricity market, because its present design is the main disadvantage of european industry. we also need a review of the public aid model for enterprises, which will allow us to accelerate the deployment of strategic projects in the framework of national recovery plans and in sectors that guarantee greater strategic, technological and energy autonomy, such as clean energy, semiconductors and electric vehicles. but the revision of state aid requires not only a modification of thresholds but also an instrument to balance the differences in the size and fiscal space of the member states. we cannot allow the global race for subsidies to become an internal race between member states that will fragment our single market. another step should be the adoption of green finance to mobilise the necessary public and private investment. support for national budgets can be provided under appropriate fiscal rules in a renewed stability and growth pact through the mobilisation of a financial instrument inspired by the sure programme. the green deal industrial plan will only be a reality if the heart of european industry for two centuries is protected: the working class. without workers, there is no industry. any company that receives public support must promote labour rights, decent wages, decent working conditions, collective bargaining and trade union rights. ladies and gentlemen, the priority objective of the green deal industrial plan must be to compete effectively with the united states and china, not between member states within the single market. and there is no better way to mark the 30th anniversary of the single market than to help give birth to a competitive, sustainable, digital european industry that respects the dignity of the working class that it deserves.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner, my thanks to the commission for their green deal industrial plan that they have launched. and it brings of course the discussion right where it should be. it is about europeans’ competitiveness. but some people in this room are defining competitiveness purely as productivity that needs to go down, productivity costs that need to go down. this is a race to the bottom. this is a race to the bottom undermining our workforce and the quality of our life. that’s also what you’re undermining: you are undermining that european way of life. and this is also why we should be more proud of europe. the world competitive ranking has at number one, denmark. so apparently something is going right in europe. and when you read the reasoning, it’s because denmark has been very at the forefront of a sustainability policy, a predictable policy that is showing the way for our industry, where we should be going. and that’s exactly what we need in europe. we are not having a problem with bureaucracy, we are having a problem with a divided, fragmented europe and a europe that is not clear and predictable, and that needs to be fixed. and this is also why the green deal industrial plan is a good start, but we need more from the commission to make sure where our industry can go to, not only with public funding, there we need public funding, but we also need more clarity on private funding – i’ll just mention a green finance agenda that seems to be lost. but on the last point, people, we need more a european vision on where we want to go because 27 fragmented national visions on our industry, that’s killing our industry. we need a european answer, and we need that together also in a european parliament that is united on that vision.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the green industrial plan presented by the european commission has two shortcomings: the first is in the assumptions and the second is in the direction, which i think is wrong, in which this initiative is being taken. i'll explain why. the first reason is to pursue the united states, and we are already losing if that is the case. the european union is not the united states of america, we do not have the same instruments, we do not have the same structure, and to start trying to imitate what they are doing on the other side of the atlantic is to start already defeated. the second point concerns a drift, which i believe is dangerous, on the part of the european commission. i mean, it seems to me that we are going back to the economic and industrial planning experiments that we have seen in the past in other systems and that obviously didn't work. i am concerned that the european commission is today presenting industrial policy plans and initiatives which tell companies what to do, when to do it, in what timeframe to do it and how to do it. in my view, this is not efficient in a free market such as the european union. the third point, which i think is even more important, is the real heart of the matter. the european union is abandoning a principle in its proposals for the green transition which i believe is fundamental to all industrial regulation: the second is that of technological neutrality. and that means we're no longer talking about how to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, but we're talking about putting all our chips on a technology that is actually a technology that has some shadows. we are not sure that it is the best technology, and that means killing research and technology investment. the last point, and i'll close with this, is what we can do today. today, speaking to businesses and investors, the first obstacle to private liquidity flowing into the european union, including this type of investment, is the jumble of rules and regulations that often kill the industry. i think that cutting unnecessary regulations, simplifying them, is a fundamental step we can take to prevent industrial desertification in europe. unfortunately, we've seen in the pandemic what it means to no longer have certain productions in our territory.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. this communication from the european commission is one-sided, very one-sided. basically, we need a plan, but a more developed, more comprehensive plan. today's economy, our industrial base today is still different. so there is a need for a realistic strategy for this economy, which actually exists, not the one that exists in the commission's dreams of 20, 30 years from now. the commission's war-related activities in the past year have been far from what it had planned for the future. but did the commission, in drawing up this plan and writing this communiqué, take into account that the war could go on for years? after all, these leopards are gonna have to be made out of some kind of steel, right? we should therefore also have a strategy for the steel industry. and it's hard not to ask, can an overregulated economy really be innovative and efficient? and despite the declaration, the regulations are getting bigger. i'm afraid i have to say that it's becoming more and more like the command-and-serve economy, as they used to say. and it's not an economy that serves efficiency and creativity, and is actually competitive.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. the inflation reduction act is a nightmare for all european transatlanticists. joe biden is betting on protectionism and america first, and his ira is an attack on the industrial base in the eu and thus economic viability, because he is actively betting on luring industrial production from europe to the us through aggressive tax dumping. and all the conservatives can think of, as they are doing in this debate, is to call for more free trade, which is really, pardon my french, a lot of bullshit in this context. instead, what is needed now is a radical rethinking of european industrial policy. the investment bottleneck - the old debt and deficit rules - must be overcome. we need reform of state aid and competition law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our people need public investment in good jobs, in an industry that is sustainable and clean. our people want clean electricity and heat, they want functioning, sustainable transport, and our people have a right to good education and health. in short, we need an industrial policy for the 99%. the commission has reacted almost in panic to the attack from the usa. but, commissioner, what you are presenting here is not all intended to be finished. biden's ira is a massive investment program, financed by taxing corporations and closing corporate tax loopholes. redistribution from top to bottom to invest in a sustainable future - that's the way to go, including for the eu. at the same time, the subsidies must be linked to social conditions such as an adequate wage, the number of training places, the promotion of trade union organisation. protecting our workers and protecting the climate are not contradictory; they go hand in hand.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the five star movement shares the objectives of the green deal industrial plan, but we have some doubts about the path it has chosen to achieve them. i mean, we share the end but not quite the means. the us ira provides subsidies, tax breaks amounting to 370 billion dollars, and what worries us most is the exclusion of european companies from this aid. this is unfair competition, which we have been denouncing for weeks. we are friends, we are allies of the united states, but precisely because we are friends and allies we must demand respect. and the do-it-yourself policy with more flexibility on state aid is not enough, because it would create distortions and damage the european single market. we agree with the proposal for a european sovereignty fund, but it must be financed by the issuing of common debt. the european budget is saturated and no new contributions can be requested from the member states. defending our competitiveness is not an expense, but an investment necessary for the very survival of the european union.
madam president, commissioner, we are talking about boosting industrial competitiveness. this means, first, we have to foster the green and digital transition, but at the same time increase our competitiveness on the global market. we cannot only focus on building windmills. we are leaders in the chemical sector, we have a competitive manufacturing industry. all important sectors of the competitiveness must be included in an industrial strategy. second, we have to ensure fast permitting procedures and predictability to set up new projects while reducing the administrative burden to a minimum. third, we need affordable prices for energy. the reform of the electricity market will be instrumental, but equally important will be to kick—start the clean hydrogen market to include low—carbon hydrogen as a transition energy. lastly, we need to avoid fragmentation in the single market, and any european fund must be integrated in the mff after a clear assessment of the costs and investment gaps.
madam president, it is very important to accelerate the green transition of our economies while ensuring that we maintain quality jobs in europe. although a step in the right direction, the commission's communication on the industrial strategy needs much more concrete measures and much more ambition. if this is our response to the american inflation reduction act, i would say that we are only trying to solve the problem by throwing more money at the problem and only proposing to reduce the burden of european legislation. this will not provide solutions to the challenges we face. the relaxation of state aid rules without monitoring, without evaluation, without conditions, will not work and will create more divergences and inequalities between big and small, between rich and poor regions and member states. so i expect more from the european union: a greater commitment to families; a greater commitment to equality; a greater commitment to environmental justice; quality of work; decent working conditions; good pay; involvement of trade unions; respect for the collective agreement; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment, such as the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, and the introduction of a new environmental policy.
mr president, i think we can say it has been years since we were able to look at the united states for inspiration. but biden did it. his plans guarantee good paying union jobs. and we as the eu should not lower the bar. it would be a missed opportunity if we didn't invest in quality jobs now. and therefore, i must say, i was a little bit disappointed that the commission didn't take the lead on this, because in the directive on adequate minimum wages in the eu, we aimed for a collective bargaining coverage rate of 80%. and i should say any spending of public money should go only to companies that are covered by collective bargaining. we should put our money whether the law is.
mr president, commissioner, council, ladies and gentlemen, competitiveness, productivity and entrepreneurship are very important keywords and are not incompatible with the green deal, the green deal. the european union needs to have a global strength that it cannot always have because of internal divisions, that it cannot always have because of the lack of common projects, such as the energy union, or solutions that avoid the distortion of the internal market, as is happening with market aids or with the non-use of instruments such as investeu, which are essential, for example, for the capitalisation of companies, and which are essential for critical investments that the council has eliminated. i have seen criticism of the commission, but a lot of the bureaucracy is in the council. it is the council that has blocked the energy union, it is the council that has cut investeu, it is the council that has avoided an instrument for the solvency of companies and that has eliminated the window for strategic investments. so let us not forget that the commission, with some mistakes, has done some positive work, and i have seen the council block that very work.
mr president, commissioner, the european economy certainly needs more private investment, but also more public investment to meet the challenges of the industrial future in the context of the energy transition. but let me focus my speech - the few seconds i have to speak to you directly - on the fact that we cannot pretend to respond to the initiatives of the united states by leaving the financial capacity for public support exclusively to the states. because, in that case, by trying to respond to the united states, we can certainly call into question the integrity and cohesion of the single market, one of the european union's great assets. in this connection, i would also suggest to the european commission that we should not relax the control we exercise over state aid in the member states until we are clear about what it is, how it is financed and how much we will have in the sovereign fund. because only with community support would this response and this industrial policy make sense.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you and good luck in office, but you will need the hammer on some occasions. look, this debate was interrupted to this morning and i think many of us were perhaps not in the chamber, but very important points were made by colleagues both before and after the debate. and while there was urgency around what we do to build our industrial capacity, i think there is also a danger that we ignore the strengths we have as a european union, and we need to play to those strengths. the proposals from the commission are fit for purpose and i think, as i've said, there are four pillars to this, including skills, including around regulation, which will help our sectors become more competitive. there were some comments made about a subsidies race. this is not how we see this. this is europe being very future focused and perhaps less naive about how the world is today. and that is why there is an urgency to the work. to my good friend and colleague, bas eickhout, who suggested that the green finance agenda is lost somewhere, it's not. it's very much with me and we will continue to work on the green finance agenda and roll out the reporting that is required, notwithstanding the challenges this faces our companies with. so in other words, we're not doing a u-turn here. we are going forward with our long term strategy for a more sustainable european economy and society. however, we need every so often to take a step back and look at are there areas that need to be addressed. and this is exactly what we are doing with this plan, this green deal industrial plan. i very much valued the contributions. i opened my remarks by saying that this is a decisive decade. and the truth is, it's a very divisive decade. it is a time of huge uncertainty for everyone, including people in this house and the people you represent. and i think that despite the differences i've heard in the debate, we all want the same thing. we all want a strong, resilient europe that is showing leadership not just in green finance, but in environmental issues generally. but we want to have a balanced economy. and that is why when we come to discuss the european green deal industrial plan, i think we will see that we have more in common than might divide us.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you very much for this fruitful discussion. the european parliament is clearly engaged in this common endeavour to make the european economy stronger and competitive, and building on our commitment with the green transition and clean tech industries. in the debate, a couple of hours ago, i heard different views on the commission’s communication, which showed the importance and the complexity of the challenges we have to face. we must absolutely avoid the fragmentation of the single market, one of the eu’s greatest achievements. we should strengthen this competitiveness, also globally — our companies must be frontrunners. let me also stress that there is no conflict between the green transition on the one side and increased competitiveness and productivity on the other. it is all decisive for our future prosperity. i agree also with those who raised the need to improve the skills of our workforce. 2023 is the european year of skills. let’s make the most of it. at the same time, let me emphasise that we don’t just need public but also private investments. any changes to state aid rules have to be targeted and temporary, while we can do more to unlock private investments, especially by finalizing the capital market union as commissioner mcguinness mentioned in her first intervention also a couple of hours ago. to conclude, the council is examining the details in the various dimensions of the plan and we await the commission’s strategy to boost competitiveness and productivity at the eu level ahead of the march european council. honourable members, some of the initiative of the green industrial plan will likely involve a negotiation between the council and parliament. i am therefore sure that we will have discussion on this debate in the months to come. with that, i would like to thank you for your attention.
that concludes the debate. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the industrial plan we are discussing is crucial for the future of europe. it is clear that only together can we find convincing answers for the sustainability and competitiveness of our industry in an increasingly aggressive global market. it's important, though, that we do it the right way. first, we must leave no one behind and we cannot create new inequalities. in my country, absolute poverty has increased and now affects almost six million citizens. one in three families are afraid of bills. secondly, economic resources are crucial. we need a common sovereign fund to support the green transition and, beyond the state aid debate, we need to complete the reform of the stability and growth pact. let us give hope to our industry and our citizens!
in writing. – europe’s green deal does not exist in a void; it must exist in synergy with our companies, our citizens, our means of reaching set goals. whilst environmental ambition is key, we cannot keep on setting targets without offering adequate assistance and instruments, be they temporary or permanent, so as to help ensure a new greener reality for europe. the scaling-up of the production of clean technologies, bridging the gap between supply and demand, investments in the approval and commercialisation of batteries, solar panels and heat pumps, are all essential components of europe’s future competitiveness. these objectives are, however, dependent on the legitimacy of our action, on visible and effective results, on actually improving the daily life for all europeans. we cannot only respond to our global competitors, we must design our own holistic approach, whilst taking into account that europe is diverse and has different regions with multiple and distinct needs and opportunities. fast redeployment of critical industries for the green transition in europe should also be a matter of equality, inclusion and ensuring a level playing field for all.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. when the commission presents its legislative proposal on the management of critical raw materials in three weeks' time, i ask you not to follow the wishes of the swedish mining industry. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the effect on prices worldwide would be dramatic. many countries would be cut off by the price, as is the case with the eu, which is hoarding lng. rather, energy transition, environmental aspects, mobility - and sustainable mobility - and economic development must be considered together. instead, improve cooperation with the partner countries whose soil is used to find and extract the desired raw materials. help countries to build themselves modern, sustainable processing facilities! this is what mercosur, chile, peru and others need and want. join our partners around the world in researching alternatives to the toxic materials that are still used to make batteries today. critical raw materials and rare earths are also finite. promote the circular economy! we are waiting for a specific timetable. we need cooperative, regional and global solutions with high standards and binding supply chain laws.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, the climate act and the fit for 55 package require our industry to accelerate the green and digital transitions. at the same time, however, europe does not yet have a genuine policy for supplying industrial production with sufficient raw materials. the critical raw materials legislation that the european commission is preparing is a step in the right direction. i hope that this legislative initiative will be a means of, first, boosting scientific research and innovation with a view to developing alternative materials. secondly, to build partnerships with third countries to diversify suppliers, intensify cooperation and strengthen international supply chains. it is also necessary to develop technologies which ensure that mining has the least possible impact on the environment and the population, without neglecting the social responsibility of this sector. it is not enough to set goals and objectives. you have to create the conditions to hit them.
mr president, the challenge of raw materials, the supply of raw materials, is a real one on a european basis. europe has become overly dependent on imports of raw materials from third countries; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. in the current geopolitical situation, all this is putting us in a situation of unacceptable strategic vulnerability. the pandemic and the war in ukraine have further disrupted the global supply chain causing severe shortages of raw materials that are crucial for our enterprises. digital technology and technological sovereignty need secure access to critical raw materials. the european union therefore needs an action plan to develop a resilient, diversified supply chain, created with the current demand for critical raw materials for european industries. this, if we succeed, will make us more competitive and reduce the shortages and delays of european products to market, while safeguarding the highest social and environmental standards in the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the crises of recent years should have taught us one thing: europe must become more resilient. this means that we have to reduce our dependence and leverage our domestic resources. the parliament's report on the 2021 raw materials strategy makes it clear: we are setting ambitious climate targets, but we are heavily dependent on imports of critical raw materials. only 1% of raw materials for wind turbines, less than 1% of lithium batteries, less than 1% of fuel cells, only 2% of raw materials relevant for robotics and only 1% of silicon photovoltaic modules are sourced or produced in europe. it is time for a smart resource policy. i think that this involves two things: first, we need to increase domestic sourcing of critical raw materials. sustainable mining in europe would mean meeting the highest environmental and social standards. and we could expand our global offering. this will be necessary because demand for critical raw materials will increase in the coming decades. and secondly, the import of critical raw materials will continue to be important. critical raw materials must therefore also be at the heart of european trade policy. we also need to diversify our supply chains and reduce dependence.
the past has shown that the success of environmental and digital cores depends on the efficiency of our supply chains. while working towards more clean energy and technology, let us not forget that critical raw materials are an essential commodity for the union's economy and resilience. we've seen the united states, japan, south korea invest in reducing their dependence on the same extraction of raw materials. the european union's industrial strategy should be a sign of our autonomy to define a comprehensive, affordable and sustainable plan, as regards supply chains, their diversification, reuse and recycling. however, european policy cannot just prioritise the safety of raw materials such as those used in batteries and electrical machines, but must go further. so this act and our policy must also look at other strategic matters in all areas such as those of food supply and medicine that affect us directly, that affect our societies as well.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must not underestimate the reality in which many farmers are working and living today. we're talking about the extreme prices of fertilizer here today. for many of us, this is just a file like any other. but on the kitchen tables of farmers, this is about much more. for some, this is about the family's energy bill or the cost of their children's education. for others, it's about the survival of their business and their passion. in the past few weeks i have spoken to many farmers at talks. when i drive home at night, i realize again and again that many people are rightly and truly losing their courage. the current market situation, yes, but certainly the many laws that are coming down on them. young people don't get into the habit anymore. parents are advising their children against becoming farmers, with all the consequences for our european food production, both in the short and long term. let us therefore work towards a policy that is indeed ambitious in terms of climate and biodiversity, but that is based on science and that takes account of its feasibility for the farmer, in the field and in the stable. i am not just concerned about the farmers, their families or their mental well-being, which is indeed deeply in the red. it's about what we all want on our plate today, tomorrow and the day after. and yes, renure is an example of something that we can do to both help the climate and biodiversity and support the farmers at the same time. so, commissioner, please make it work.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! at the moment when we are debating this in the plenary chamber of the european parliament in strasbourg, polish farmers in my region, in the lublin province, including at the dorohuski border crossing, are on strike and protesting. and this is not just a matter of the lack of availability and dramatically high fertilizer prices that farmers have felt over the past year. it's the unpredictability of farming and farming production. it's the issue of the instability of farm families' incomes. it's a food safety hazard after all. not only for those areas and countries that benefit from the export of our agricultural products from the european union, but also, in the long term, for food security in europe, because a huge number of farmers simply abandon their farming activities because of the unpredictability of farming. they cannot understand why fertilizer prices are so high and at the same time the fertilizer companies and companies are making incredible profits, never achieved even in the best economic times. and who did they get the money from? it's the farmers. and another issue: the huge problem today is the flood of ukrainian grain to the european market, to the polish market. of course, ukraine needs help, but all the grain warehouses in poland have been flooded with ukrainian grain. farmers cannot sell this grain, and even if they could, it is below the cost of production. that's why they're protesting and striking today. and they don't want messages, they want real action and support for them today, here, now and now.
madam president, agriculture is our largest, one of our most vital industries. however, to ensure that it is sustainable, we must ensure that our farmers are well assisted. farmers in europe are not only underpaid, they are struggling to make ends meet and produce much-needed harvests. in our discussion of strategic autonomy we do not want to ignore our dependence on third countries for fertilisers, the scarcity of which is creating additional costs for our farmers and could jeopardise europe's food supply. european farmers expect the transformation they are embarking on to be accompanied by investments, assistance, clear responses and flexibility in the use of organic fertilisers such as renure, which can and should accompany the path towards a more circular economy and less dependence in this area. agriculture is becoming more sustainable and digital through the use of innovation. however, we need to do much more to support our farmers, in particular those facing increasing costs and scarcity, including farmers from islands and regions such as malta and gozo.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the european economy is being put under severe pressure simultaneously by war, sanctions, the energy crisis, the burden of the green and digital transition, bureaucracy and protectionist industrial policies, and now the us. our economic and trade policies are permeated by ideology. we make new rules every day without measuring their impact. and you can't fuel it with fantasies and gendered ideas, and you can't create jobs. the commission should therefore urgently change course. instead of over-regulation, a business-friendly investment and operating environment and a lasting reduction in energy prices are needed. our trading partners must be chosen in the hope of mutual business benefit. standing on our own two feet, reducing our exposure to outside players and ensuring a stable supply of raw materials for industry. my fellow members of the house of representatives! one third of the time available for the allocation of recovery funds has elapsed and only one fifth of the resources have been allocated. five member states, including hungary, have so far received no money at all. by deliberately withholding resources, the commission is undermining hungary's competitiveness and interfering with competition between member states. this has to stop. i ask the commission not to hold back money by playing politics. finally, it is only by cutting red tape that we will be able to create new jobs, not by borrowing.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. more europe, more jobs. that's a headline i find quite appealing. but frankly, i think it would be even more appealing if we were to orientate the policy we are making here in this house much, much more closely towards that objective. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not just the 1 300 billion that mr biden has mobilised, but above all the issue of the approval procedures, of planning security. the european commission itself recognised in its industrial strategy that we need to move faster. but the problem is that in practice the european commission is doing the exact opposite. we have an industrial emissions directive on the table which will complicate and lengthen planning procedures with environmental management systems for each individual plant, with the prevention of further use of old plants. the industry will continue to be driven out of europe. what really excites me is that we had the debate on the incinerator ban here four weeks ago and mr timmermans was sitting in that chair and he laughed when i spoke about the good-paying jobs we are losing in the car industry and the supplier industry. he laughed at the question of affordability, of individual mobility. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done in this area. no one can want that.
mr president, having a job is no guarantee against poverty, it is no guarantee against social exclusion. workers' poverty is a problem affecting millions of workers in the european union. too many workers are facing situations of precariousness, job insecurity, low wages and exclusion from the most basic social protection. digital innovation, demographic changes, the green transition have continued to have a stronger impact on the labour market and on those workers with the least skills. the quality of work was already a challenge before the pandemic and the war against ukraine broke out. low quality of work leads to a slow recovery of the average. the current situation has led to more rhetoric about fair wages, decent protection for workers, and protection of health and safety at work which are now being considered as barriers to competitiveness and job creation in europe. let's stop saying the cliches. quality work is not a burden. evidence shows that quality work is fundamental to economic growth and competitiveness. quality work gives workers satisfaction, enhances skills, gives more motivation and therefore leads to higher productivity. president, commissioner we don't just want to create jobs in europe, we want to create quality jobs to make europe more competitive. this is what can make europe more competitive in a globalised world we do not want to have ambition only to compete for third world working conditions. we therefore need to create jobs that give our citizens a high quality of life. work must first and foremost be decent, well-paid, based on fair conditions, a high level of health and safety, social protection and fair to all genders.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 1.2 million citizens from all over europe are shouting their dismay at our model of murderous agriculture. no, running forward won't solve anything. let's face it now. of course, without farmers, there will be no agriculture. but without pollinators, either. however, the biomass of flying insects has decreased by an average of 76% in recent years across the european union, from 82% last summer. robots replacing bees, is that the future you want for our children? it is up to the commission to listen to these sirens and take up its responsibilities, starting with a strict application of the court's ruling on the ban on neonicotinoids throughout the european union. yes, there are other ways. the ipm works network was here in parliament last month. it shows us that another model of agriculture, which reduces pesticides by 50 percent, is possible. integrated management is possible. we can do something about it, and we have the political will to do so in the commission and in parliament. so stop serving the interests of industry and listen to the people of europe.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, to talk about bees is to talk about our own lives. without bees, many crops would not produce fruit and seeds, and this would threaten biodiversity. without biodiversity, our health and food security would be at risk. our farmers know this well: they are the first guardians of the environment, because no one knows better than them the rhythms of nature, its cycles, its rules and the best way to respect it. by their daily efforts, farmers ensure the protection of biodiversity. for example, consider those who work in complex territories such as mountains: thanks to agriculture and all the actors who help keep it alive, whole areas and communities can continue to live. in other words, this means that environmental sustainability is closely linked to economic and social sustainability. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year.
the czech republic is the fourth country in the world in terms of bee population, with eight beehives per square kilometre. but the last few years have been disastrous for pollinators. in winter, frost and rapid warming are increasingly common. the bees are disoriented, and if the temperature exceeds 10 degrees, they start flying out, they become brittle and they die. yes, pollinators are a threat to agricultural chemicals. cases of death of poisoned bee colonies are not uncommon in the czech republic either. pesticides are far from the only, and certainly not the biggest, problem in beekeeping today. pollinators are also affected by drought, landscape degradation, lack of pollination diversity, and changes in agricultural production structures and sowing practices. we must not forget sickness. it's simply a set of measures we have to take if we want to help. and i am very happy about this seventh successful european citizens' initiative in a row and i very much hope that the commission will not treat it as it has treated the previous ones and will deal with the problem properly. but let's really approach this with a sense of comprehension. one measure won't solve anything.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the concerns of the citizens about the fate of the beekeeping sector. according to the fao, of the 100 crop species that provide 90 percent of the world's food, 71 are pollinated by bees. the importance of protecting bees is therefore more than essential for the future of the agricultural sector, for farmers, but also for food security. the data provided by the european commission shows, however, that in 2019 and 2020 there was an increase in the number of hives of 5,1% and 7,6% respectively at european level. the largest increases were in spain (10%) and romania (8.5%). so, colleagues, there can be an increase in the number of bees or bee colonies, even if we use pesticides, provided they are used rationally. the proposal on the table today in the european parliament aims at a phased reduction in the consumption of pesticides. whether it is 30% or 80% of the vehicles, it will not be possible to implement them uniformly, simply because we have major differences between member states in terms of consumption. thus, romania has a consumption of 650 grams per hectare, and the netherlands consumes 7 900 grams per hectare. you cannot reduce this percentage uniformly at member state level. at the same time, a reduction in pesticides without serious impact studies or viable alternatives for farmers will be likely to seriously affect the agricultural sector and bees.
madam president, the european citizens' initiative is a very important tool for the participatory democracy of our citizens, helping them to have a central role in decision-making and the legislative process on a european basis. and this initiative on bee protection is a very important one. in the light of this initiative too, i would like to highlight another problem that we have perhaps not talked about much that bees are facing on a european basis especially in the mediterranean region: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the implementation of the european union's action plan for the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment (2007-2013). it is therefore extremely important that there are initiatives like this so that we can take action at european union level to give our farmers the remedies, including, for example, helping our farmers to also eradicate this problem of the goose bump. it is also important that we see the effect of climate change in our member states for example; two years ago in malta due to lack of rain, in one year alone, we had a honey production in malta that was 80% less than the year before in one year alone! and so it's important to address these problems because without bees we don't eat, without bees our biodiversity is gone forever.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, well, we can vote as you like. on malta i think there is even more reason maybe to have a debate.
ok, wait, then we have to deal with it as the next request. fine. so we’ll wait. is this on spain? are you speaking against the insertion of a statement on the rule of law in spain? go ahead.
mr weber, why have you left the poor colleague, mr lenaers, to argue, exactly again, as you said two minutes ago? one last thing, the rule of law in greece is not a national issue. you know, two of our colleagues have been spied on here. all of us who were talking with them, including mr kyrtsos, who was in your party before you, and the greek secret services were listening to you, mr weber. are you going to talk about that? (the president cut off the speaker)
thank you, this is not about the item on the agenda now. so we put to the vote the request of the epp group to include spain in the commission statement. (parliament approved the request)and we now go to another request from the epp group, this time to include malta. do you want to take the floor again, mr lenaers?
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i do apologise for taking so much of your time but in malta, an author, mr mark camilleri, published documents showing whatsapp messages between an mp from the ruling governing party and yorgen fenech, who is the alleged mastermind behind the murder of daphne caruana galizia. now these messages exposed abuse of power, bribery and trading and influence, and this information was known to the police for already three years, and nothing has happened. the only thing that has happened is that the author has been criminalised for publishing the documents, even forcing him to leave the country. it’s a disgrace, and it’s further proof of how the rule of law is being systematically undermined by this government in malta. and, as such, it also warrants a debate with a resolution adopted in april.
thank you, mr lenaers. i see mr agius saliba would like to speak against.
the hypocrisy of the populist group is lit and shining in this case. we have a situation where the epp defends a situation where a member of this parliament, our colleague here, nikos androulakis, the leader of pasok, is being spied on, his mobile phone is being spied on. imagine if it had happened in malta, how much resolution we would ask for. then we come here to a call from the populari group that they are saying that there should be a debate on malta because evidence from the court, which the court said is protected and should not be released, against the court's decision, has been published. now i am not defending what has been written but that evidence comes out of the court and is published against, against the direction of the court, i think that is something that this parliament will never defend. if we really want to talk about separation between the courts, governments, the executive and the rule of law, we cannot here try to raise a discussion against a decision of the maltese court which is totally separate from the organs of the government.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is a typical picture: mrs sippel finds something to throw up. you know what makes me sick? your s&d group is riddled with corruption. more than 40 people in your group are corrupt and have been proven to be corrupt. and you'll find something to puke about. i actually find that sickening. this faction is a criminal organization and should be banned in reality that's what it looks like. what i also find sickening - if we can use this beautiful word here - is that in austria, for example - and there is always a finger pointed at everyone else - measures were taken during the corona pandemic that deliberately and knowingly violated austrian constitutional law. it was all illegal what this austrian federal government did. the commission seems to be blind to this. the commission also seems to be blind when it comes to its own interests. if it is the commission president who has not yet revealed her communication with the pfizer boss. these are things you might want to take a look at, but you're blind in that eye.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as every year you bring us the endless litany of complaints against governments that have been democratically elected. poland and hungary are once again your targets, again in the name of a state of law with variable geometry. your permanent appearances don't really fool anyone. these maneuvers and these big words have only one purpose: to punish those who don't think like you. these countries are wrong, in your opinion, to protect their people and their culture. they are wrong not to submit to your political and moral dictates. they are wrong to reject your forced diversity, your insane "immigrationism", your incessant lgbt propaganda, your authoritarian bureaucratic centralism, which are destroying our nations and our civilization. you want to impose your leftist delusions on free peoples, to lead them into poverty, weakness and decay. election after election, the people are waking up. what will your next targets be? italy, sweden, or maybe spain? so stop lecturing on morality, while corruption is spreading in your ranks, while the commission appears to be under influence, including from islamist countries or factions. finally, trust democracy and let the people decide for themselves.
mr president, the rule of law is a fundamental principle of the european union, and so we must take action when it is threatened. and where it has to be shared - yes, it has been threatened. and the situation is going to get worse. institutions were set up to protect the people in power. so that those who are supposed to be there to serve the people can be taken over by the people, by the workers, by the families. daphne caruana galizia was murdered more than five years ago. they killed her to shut her up so she wouldn't continue to expose the current government's theft. five years have passed, and do you know how many prosecutions have been brought against people in power for that corruption that you uncovered? the zero! we have recently had confirmation from the court of malta that the largest public contract we have ever had was concluded fraudulently. contract for the sale of hospitals. and imagine reading this: even on the back of the sick person. and what have our institutions done? investigations that never ended. prosecutions that cannot succeed because of gross incompetence. and let's put it this way: willful incompetence! unless, of course, you're exposing corruption. there, yes, investigations are quickly completed, there, they quickly take criminal proceedings against you. for example, an author who has recently published evidence of bribery and abuse of power between a parliamentary deputy and the alleged murderer of daphne caruana galizia, the police take action against the author and not against the corrupt. no, i did not. maltese and gozitan are better suited. and they are asking, 'where is europe? what is europe doing? other and so i call on the commission to do its duty under the treaties and ensure that the institutions protect maltese, not those who have betrayed them, and that they seek out the corrupt, not those who expose them.
mr president, for the epp, malta has become the easiest excuse to divert attention from real issues of threat to the rule of law being carried out by popular governments across europe. an average of three resolutions a year on malta, repeating facts recycled and from total information, such as that which we are experiencing today in this debate. now, to our credit, malta has come under attack, because according to the paladins of the rule of law, the maltese court has no right to protect important documents and evidence that could lead to full justice in the case of the murder of daphne caruana galizia. those who believe so much in the separation of powers want us to condemn the maltese courts because the court asked for an investigation and not the police, david, after a person broke his own order and published documents that could never have been published. in the same breath as they attacked malta, the epp is defending the greek conservative government, which believes so much in the rule of law that it ended up spying on one of the leaders of the greek opposition - sham and hypocrisy! today the epp, together with the far right, have made a complete farce of this very important debate.
mr. chairman, please! we are coming to the end of our debate and before the president sums up, i would like to say that the money and the eu funds that we are using or that we can use are a very good thing. but i, who grew up behind the iron curtain, joined the european union because i wanted to work, live, expand this space of freedom, democracy, rule of law. i know that without it, we can't keep the peace, we can't fight climate change, we're no good to ukraine, and in general, this space without the law is worth nothing. so i can only express my gratitude to all those colleagues who are fighting tirelessly for what is most important to all of us. i would also like to thank the president of the european commission, but i would also like to ask her not to give in to national, party or any other kind of tribal strife. the rule of law is a matter of the utmost importance to us all, and concessions on that matter... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, there is a continuous degradation of the rule of law in greece due to the policies of the mitsotakis government. colleagues, i have been a victim of systematic wiretapping after being characterised by the national intelligence service of greece, directly controlled by the prime minister, as a threat to national security. this is an insult to me, an insult to you and an insult to the european parliament as well. these practices are both a national and european issue, despite the arguments of mr weber. greece is in a deep social crisis, and the undermining of the rule of law completes the backsliding of the country. the policies of mitsotakis are against european values, undermine our criticism towards other authoritarian governments in the european union and give the worst example to the western balkan countries that aspire to join a democratic european union.
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are very late to the agenda, and that is why i am now taking a decision which will not please the members: we will not be using the catch-the-eye procedure. i would like to ask the colleagues concerned for their apology and for their good judgment, but i would also like to point out that you can also ask your group leader whether the speaking time and the procedures here in the house, in the conference of presidents, really need to be so tight. but in a house that is only here to talk, i no longer think this debate is appropriate. i therefore give the floor to commissioner jourová to conclude the debate.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i have two full pages of comments and reactions on this very interesting discussion and on the concrete contributions, but because of the lack of time, i will be very, very brief. honourable members, the rule of law report is not an end in itself. it aims to promote mutual knowledge, trigger discussions and ultimately contribute to bringing about the necessary changes on the ground. this implies that member states continue to exchange on the report and its recommendations. to foster this commitment, the commission proactively visits the member states to discuss the problems identified. these discussions happen both at the political and technical level with all member states. i want to mention one more thing. the discussion today showed that, for some, what we are doing to protect the rule of law as a principle is too much; for others, it’s too little. and i want to say that the commission always acts within the boundaries of the competences given to us by the treaty. i want to mention a last thing, which for me is very key and important. the rule of law as a principle is not ideological. the rule of law is a universal value, which we agree to defend and promote.
in accordance with rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure, three motions for resolutions have been tabled. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. the vote on the three further commission statements on the rule of law in greece (2023/2628 ((rsp)), the rule of law in spain (2023/2626 ((rsp)) and the rule of law in malta (2023/2627 ((rsp)) will take place in april. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. it is important to debate the rule of law within the european union but it is not appropriate to introduce a discussion about a member state to divert attention away from another member state. this was made evident as at yesterday's sitting, the representatives of the european people's party first said that we should not have debates on particular countries, but as the debate on greece was confirmed, they opposed, changed the narrative, and pushed for a debate on malta and spain. as a maltese, i am sorry to see that, once again, the european people's party is pushing for another debate, and another resolution, on malta to score political points. as i did just a few months ago when we had a similar debate, this time too i will not speak about what i believe in, proud maltese. but what the european commission has said and confirmed today. in this debate, european commissioner jurová has just acknowledged the positive progress and reforms made by a labour government over the last three years, including to strengthen the independence of the justice system in our country. what is to be done? certainly; there is always something left to do; the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules in the member states. but the progress made cannot be ignored; and another resolution on our country can never be fair if it happens in a biased and impartial way!
madam president, madam commissioner, access to energy sources and their storage is a strategic concern on a global scale. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the union is a net importer of energy, with 58% of available energy produced outside the member states in 2020. a path towards imposing sustainable and clean forms of energy production only makes sense if science can keep pace with the vision of policy makers. if the targets set by the european commission, the council and parliament are unrealizable, the consequence will be intolerable increases in energy prices and difficulties for our companies and economies. in this context, investment in efficient forms of energy storage produced by various means, and particularly energy from clean or renewable sources, such as solar, wind or hydrogen, can be crucial to the success of environmentally friendly decisions without a major impact on the balance of economies on a global scale. moreover, the development of these new technologies will in itself constitute an opportunity for scientific and technological development, leveraging many business opportunities. this is an area in which the european union can and should want to take the lead on a global scale. that is why it is so important to be rational in decision-making - that is, at the political level - without dogmatic assertions but in keeping with the possibilities of science, which in turn must be financially supported, both in terms of research and the implementation of projects. the funding processes must be simple and fast and national governments must match the ambition of the european institutions. a more sustainable planet, business opportunities, a better future for the next generation - that's what we can achieve.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. we need to do this through the integrated energy policy framework of the european union. energy storage has become a key component in the transition towards a sustainable energy system. however, renewable energy sources like wind and solar are scarce, which we know very well, and which also makes it difficult to rely solely on them for our energy needs. what can we do with storage? beyond what we've heard very well in the debate and what's been proposed, we can lower electricity prices, of course during peak periods, and empower consumers to adjust their energy consumption to prices and their needs. of course, there is also a financial component, and that is where we need to find support through eu policies and funds. however, we cannot ignore the importance of investing in other infrastructure as we move towards sustainability of energy produced from renewable sources. first of all, i'm referring to the lng infrastructure. namely, i just want to remind you that the croatian government has made an excellent move by investing in the lng terminal and will increase its capacity, the decision has already been made, and it is an alternative supply route to the countries of southeast europe. so we have to think of multiple highways. while we wait to take the next step, we must not forget these energy resources that are available to us and these investments, and i think croatia is a leader in that.
commissioner, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the energy market is of course very important for every citizen. after all, the life of every citizen depends on the cost of energy, and we know that these successive crises have led to the price of each individual bill going up. commissioner, when we regulate, i think we need to take into account the impact on people and yes, we need inventory too. but management says that inventory costs, and we have to see how we calculate that, that optimal inventory, so that we don't add costs that obviously go into the citizen's pocket. i believe that the pace at which we regulate must keep pace with the possibility of implementation, so that we do not end up with an increase in regional disparities instead of cohesion. that is why i think, commissioner, that you must also think about how we can ensure that the costs of investing in infrastructure (because we know we lack it), in networks, in the cost of stocks (how much the stocks cost us, how much we stock) do not ultimately increase the cost of the invoice. i think we have to take into account that, until we reach the amount of renewable energy that we have set out to do, we still have to have access to gas and nuclear energy.
madam president, i wish to thank commissioner simson for accepting our request and being here today to exchange views on the issue of energy storage, which i think it is of paramount importance not only in terms of security of supply, but also in order to address our final goal, which is our strategic autonomy. in this regard i would like to benefit from her presence here to table two questions concerning the issue of storage. the first one is on hydrogen, and i would like to recall our renew colleague’s approach. hydrogen is the most abundant chemical element in our world. it emits no greenhouse gas emissions, it presents a tantalising solution for a hard—to—abate sector and it is also an important energy carrier in terms of storage. in what state of play – and could you please give us some details – is the so-called hydrogen bank on behalf of the commission? and how fast will this bank be launched in order to upscale innovative projects? the second question concerns the ipcei projects. i would kindly ask the commission if it is ready to expand the scope of ipcei projects when it comes to energy storage.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i’m delighted to see that there is an overall consensus on the important role of energy storage. we agree that we must double down on integrating new renewable generation into the grid, and for that we need flexibility and storage solutions to replace the role traditionally played by gas-fired installations. many of you stressed that there is significant potential to be unlocked in europe. some of you asked whether the commission favours some form of storage solutions over others. let me be clear: we promote a technology-neutral approach. moving towards a decarbonised system require all forms of low-carbon storage to balance the variable supply with variable demand. we need batteries big and small, behind-the-meter storage solutions, thermal storage or decentralised storage, like electricity stored in electric vehicles. the only option we do not cover in the commission recommendation and the staff document are gas storage or oil storage stocks. some of you mentioned the need for fast-tracking permitting also for storage installations, and this is a valid point. we try to address this through the repowereu emergency regulatory amendments, which cover permitting processes for energy storage combined with renewable energy projects through co-located projects and go-to areas. energy storage assets related to the deployment of renewable generation are presumed to be of overriding public interest. the recommendation on permitting procedures and power-purchase agreements also suggests useful acceleration measures. and cross-border energy storage projects identified under the trans-european network for energy within the eu-wide ten-year network development plan and selected as a project of common interest (pci) in the union list will benefit from fast-track procedures in addition to possible funding. we are currently working on a cost-benefit analysis methodology for the selection of energy storage as projects of common interest, and this process will be finalised soon. all of this can be done without compromising on environmental protection. on whether a european target for storage would be useful, let me say that with the electricity market design proposal, we get very close to that. we proposed that by 1 january 2025 and every two years thereafter, the regulatory authority of each member state shall assess the need for flexibility in the electricity system for a period of at least five years. based on this, each member state is required to define an indicative national objective for demand-side response and storage. the combination of these national targets will help accelerate flexibility services, including energy-storage capacities. once again, i would like to thank you for the valuable discussion today and offer that we continue to work together on this very crucial issue.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. in recent months, europe has been facing unprecedentedly high gas and electricity prices due to the war and brussels' ill-conceived sanctions policy. the worst-case scenario was eventually avoided, mainly thanks to the sacrifices made by european citizens and businesses and to sufficiently high gas storage capacities. achieving a high level of storage capacity will be key again this year, and member states should do everything possible to ensure that the necessary quantities of natural gas are available. in addition to gas storage, electricity storage technologies will play an increasingly important role in the electricity market in the near future. a rapid and efficient development process is needed, and three aspects are worth keeping in mind. on the one hand, it would be a serious mistake to overregulate developers and increase the bureaucratic burden. this requires a stable regulatory environment and well-designed programmes. on the other hand, in a rising price market, all storage technologies may be needed. we need to take a technology neutral approach and adequately support related industrial, research and development projects. finally, the construction of modern energy storage systems is a complex and capital-intensive process for which the commission must ensure that all member states have immediate access to the resources to which they are entitled. it is therefore important that brussels and the left do not further delay the creation of energy independence and climate protection in central europe. to do so, they must stop blocking eu funds to hungary and poland.
the agenda includes the debate on the council and commission statements on protecting the labour mobility and social rights of third country road hauliers on strike (2023/2652 ((rsp)). i would remind members that this debate will be a round of speeches by the political groups, so there is no 'catch the eye' procedure and no 'blue card' speeches will be accepted.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, safeguarding labour mobility and social rights of people contracted by union companies are essential and a trademark of what europe stands for in terms of solidarity and social inclusion. it also contributes the union’s sustainable long-term competitiveness. this is relevant both for eu nationals and third country nationals. the case that triggered today’s debate has various dimensions, and it is not the role of the presidency of the council to comment on details. i will therefore limit myself to a number of considerations on the importance of the enforcement of existing eu labour legislation to special categories of workers, such as lorry drivers. according to the european labour authority, the posting of third country nationals is a quickly developing phenomenon. third country workers are a reality of our eu labour market. their effective integration requires a clear legal framework that we developed over the years and which should be properly implemented. as you well know, there are special rules for the posting of workers in transport that were adopted back in 2020. these rules were created to provide for more legal clarity. one thing is certain, however, the complexity of the rules should not be an excuse for abuses. both employers and workers must be able to rely on the proper enforcement of existing law. it is for national authorities in the member states to enforce the law and to ensure access to justice for those who claim that their rights are not properly protected. on the other hand, i am sure that the commission will be ready to play its role regarding the proper implementation of union law in the member states. from the council perspective, i can only emphasise once more the importance of labour mobility and social rights as guaranteed by our laws. thank you very much for your attention, i am looking forward to the debate.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, a strong commitment has been taken jointly in the european pillar of social rights to guarantee the right to fair working conditions and fair wages that provide for a decent standard of living for all workers. and this includes, obviously, lorry drivers and also lorry drivers who are third-country nationals. the reports from the events in gräfenhausen point to serious infringements of working conditions and of social rights, and this is indeed serious and worrying. it is absolutely unacceptable that today, in europe, in the european union, workers, in this case, truck drivers, do not obtain their salary, their adequate salary, by the way, in due time. and it is even more serious when their right to strike, which is a right guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights, and according to some reports, even their safety and even their physical safety, comes under threat. this is even more deplorable after the experience of covid-19, when essential workers such as truck drivers were working hard to deliver us the goods we needed. and in this specific case, we do not yet know the types of contracts and particular arrangements governing the employment of the concerned drivers. so this situation also shows the importance of good cross-border cooperation to investigate abuses and prosecute and sanction infringements. third-country nationals who work as drivers are especially vulnerable to abusive and unlawful practices because they often lack information on their rights and face more language barriers. and i must say i have full admiration for the courage of these lorry drivers coming from different geographies, full admiration. there are already many tools to address such situations through enforcement of existing directives, and over the last years, the commission has taken steps to improve the situation of mobile workers and notably the situation of drivers in international transport. this commission remains deeply committed to fair mobility, as it has been underlined also by the council. the so-called mobility package 1, which has been fully applicable since last year, contains measures to guarantee the social rights of drivers in the road transport sector. those measures also apply to all third-country drivers employed by eu operators and working in the eu. there are not two different categories of workers in this eu, there are only workers with the same rights and the same social standards. these measures aim at guaranteeing the social rights of truck drivers from third countries who are employed and work in the eu. they must be complied with by the road transport operators and enforced by the member states. one of these measures include a requirement to ensure that when third-country drivers come to work in the eu, they receive at least, at least, the minimum wage of the eu member state in which they are employed. in addition, whenever they work in other member states, the rules on posting of workers must be respected and, where applicable, they should be paid according to the conditions in force and the place where they are working. a member state must suspend all withdrawal and authorisation to operate road transport services if there are compelling grounds for doubting the good repute of an operator, such as convictions or penalties for any serious infringement of national rules in force in the field of trafficking in human beings, contractual obligations and working-time limits. in duly motivated cases of alleged abuses by eu operators, the member states of establishment can be requested to verify whether the undertaking meets the conditions governing admission to the occupation of road transport operator, including by performing comprehensive checks at premises. the commission has set up the internal market information system to facilitate information exchange between national authorities and has established the european labour authority with possibilities for it to organise joint and consorted inspections. in 2021 and 2022 ela, the european labour authority, focused its inspection efforts on the transport sector and in particular on road transport. four out of five concerted and joint inspections of the european labour authority have been in the area of road transport. furthermore, the european labour authority is accelerating its work on concerted and joint inspections and the situation of third-country nationals is very much on its radar. in the context of the monitoring of the posting of workers directive, my services are analysing the situation of temporary cross-border mobile workers and of workers in subcontracting chains. other relevant initiatives, such as the skills and talent package we proposed last year, can also help improve third-country nationals’ rights when residing and working in the eu, while enhancing safeguards for equal treatment and protection from labour exploitation. but the situation in gräfenhausen also shows the important public opinion reaction, the solidarity of german citizens and churches, as well as support of trade unions, mainly german trade unions, but also trade unions from other countries, with the workers on strike. collective bargaining and social dialogue are key for preventing labour conflicts and avoiding situations like the one witnessed in gräfenhausen. the directive on adequate minimum wages supports a wider coverage of collective bargaining, and in january this year, we further proposed a council recommendation on strengthening social dialogue, which, inter alia, aims to support collective bargaining at national level. i invite the relevant parties to work for a quick solution of this situation on the basis of a constructive dialogue and the full implementation and enforcement of the eu legislation. this will be to the benefit of the workers concerned and their families, as well as to the overall objective to for smooth and fair labour mobility in the eu.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i can remember very well the heated debates, the heated arguments we had here when the mobility package was introduced. we must not forget that this package was rejected in this house even at the first vote. there was no majority for it. it was a real knife fight we had. why did we have that one? why was i such a passionate supporter of this mobility package at the time? because i have always felt that this ruinous competition for the lowest price, which is carried out solely on the backs of the drivers, must be stopped. i remain firmly convinced that what we have put in place here is the right tool for that. the intolerable images we are now seeing from gräfenhausen make one thing very clear: we no longer have a regulatory deficit at european level, but we have a very obvious enforcement deficit. i also expect the european commission to enter into dialogue with the german government and to ask the question clearly: where are the german authorities when we have cases like this in gräfenhausen? it's very complex legally. we are probably not talking here only about third-country workers, but probably even partially about pseudo-employed third-country workers. it is legally highly complex, but the complexity must not be an excuse for the german authorities to simply look the other way in these areas. for me, it's about two things now. one is the level: how can we help the brave men in gräfenhausen now? nicolas schmit has pointed this out. it's great what solidarity is, what the colleagues from fair mobility are doing, what churches are doing, what the people are doing. that's great. now we have to look at what is necessary to continue to support these brave men and help them to pursue their interests? i think that is elementary. the question must be asked: how can this polish entrepreneur be in possession of an eu community licence when it is quite obvious that he does not meet the personal requirements for it at all, since personal integrity and apparently also the aptitude are not given? the second is that we also need to talk about how we can tighten up controls in the future. how can we re-design the ehler mandate in the future so that what i say is just the tip of the iceberg in many places is really a thing of the past once and for all?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. if i may say so, i am a little surprised that the liberal group has not put a speaker or a speaker in this debate, because i actually think that we are talking about things that should be demanded by this parliament across the political groups. because it is indeed a matter of law enforcement. it's about everybody having to follow the rules. truck drivers who have not been paid for weeks go on strike, are supported by unions in demanding their rights, and then in response are threatened by brutal mobs sent by the freight forwarder who withholds their wages. ladies and gentlemen, we must face up to reality. there are hauliers in the european union who have made exploitation of their drivers their business model. and first of all, as my colleagues have already said: these are not rare exceptions. exploitation in the transport sector is commonplace. and here in the european parliament we have heard reports over and over again from drivers who have said that they have not been able to go home for months, that they have been unable to be home for some of the births of their own children, that they have been affected by unimaginable sanitary conditions, that wages have been withheld and so on and so forth. and for a long time, nothing or too little actually happened. and it is only through the support of trade unions - especially projects such as fair mobility - that these abuses are brought to light and drivers are supported to defend themselves against such violations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what's going on is just criminal. and secondly, these freight forwarders are not going to run for no name. ikea, dhl and vw have in this case placed orders with the company in question. and that has to change, too. but we must also finally get policy to act, and we do need much tighter controls, including from the european labour authority. the european union cannot turn a blind eye to these massive abuses. but even the best laws are useless if they are not enforced. and obviously, many companies still feel pretty safe in what they're doing -- even if it's illegal -- because they're not being monitored and sanctioned. and this is not just a problem for the drivers involved, but for the entire industry and ultimately for all of us. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, our fight against exploitation must continue. solidarity with the drivers. the european parliament stands with you.
member of the commission. madam president, first of all i would like to express my gratitude for having put this subject on the agenda. i believe that parliament has a voice, a voice that carries, and the expression of solidarity with its workers, with thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands of workers who are in similar situations, is extremely important. i am also a little surprised by what i have been told lately that europe is facing a major shortage of drivers. thousands and thousands of drivers were missing in europe. if drivers are treated in this way, it is not surprising that no one can do this job anymore. so i think it is now time to put the sector in order and i recognise that there are many law-abiding carriers who may be suffering from the bad image generated by events like those that have just occurred in germany. it is clear that the commission will do everything possible to ensure that the existing directives are actually applied. i have already said that the european labour authority, which has already followed this sector in particular, knowing that there were many abuses, is a supervisory authority and not a sanctioning authority. control must be and is primarily national. the national governments must therefore be aware that there is a real need for more continuous and more stringent control, including sanctions, which must in fact be harmful, because if sanctions do not harm, then we move on to something else. i therefore believe that this debate must be held, and that it must also be held in the councils responsible for this sector, transport, and that we must also ensure that the mobility package is properly implemented. i therefore call once again on all the national authorities (labour inspectors, police, etc.) to ensure that checks are carried out. the health status of these workers was mentioned, who are entitled to the same health protection and working conditions as any other worker. and i'm going even further: their health problems are a problem for them, but they can very quickly become a problem for everyone else on the road. because driving a machine of i don't know how many tons can very quickly become a public danger. we therefore have an absolute interest in ensuring that social rights in this sector are strictly monitored and also respected, and the commission will do everything in its power to ensure that this is the case. i believe that this accident, like others in other sectors before it - let's remember what happened during the pandemic - should be a lesson and should inspire us to act now.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members and commissioner, i have listened to this debate very, very carefully and on all the points that you all have raised. but i will be very short here today on my concluding remark. we are living and working in a union founded on respect of the rule of law. as many as you have said, we need to ensure, therefore, respect for existing laws, that these laws are followed and effectively enforced, and that we are able to track abuse and to stop it. and i would also like to stress the important role of the social partners. and as commissioner schmit said in his first intervention, the need to promote social dialogue on the labour market. but with that, i would like to thank you for the debate and for the interesting interventions.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
based on the conclusions of the advisory committee dealing with harassment complaints between accredited parliamentary assistants and members of the european parliament and after taking into account the observations of the member concerned, i have decided to impose a penalty on monica semedo, pursuant to rule 10(6) and rule 176, as a result of her behaviour towards her accredited parliamentary assistant, which constituted psychological harassment. the penalty consists of the forfeiture of entitlement to the daily subsistence allowance for a period of 10 days. the member concerned has been notified of the decision today and is entitled to lodge an internal appeal with the bureau under rule 177. the penalty would be suspended for the duration of any such appeal.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, let me start, first of all, by thanking this house for reintroducing this initiative (already included in the code of conduct framework for relations between the commission and parliament) that gives the opportunity to the commission to inform the chamber about the initiatives decided on the day by the college of commissioners meeting in strasbourg. it’s an honour to be the first one to reactivate this clause and to present to you, together with my colleague thierry breton, fresh from the oven, the new cybersecurity package we just adopted at the college of commissioners. this package aims at strengthening the operational part of our cybersecurity framework and has two main components: the cyber solidarity act and the cybersecurity skills academy. thierry will take the floor in a minute on the cyber solidarity act, but let me briefly – before taking you through the cybersecurity skills academy – say a few words on the overall context in which we present this package. this is the last missing piece in the eu’s cybersecurity legislative framework. in this political term, we have done a lot. together with this house and the member states, we have managed to enact, in record time, a regulatory framework on the nis2 directive, the protection of our cybersecurity shield capacities, and our cyber resilience act which, for the first time, takes us into the realm of regulating cybersecurity products, not only services. and, of course, drawing on the lessons from the war in ukraine, the cyberwar in ukraine, we are now beefing up our operational capacities to ensure cyber resilience and response capacities across the eu. to cut a long story short, on the overall framework, what we can say in very simple terms is that we are producing a real european way for cyber: a european way which is modern, which is fit for purpose and which is also values—driven. on that specific point of values—driven, i would like to say a few words on the eu cybersecurity reserve – an initiative included in this package that would enable incident—response services from trusted private sector providers ready to intervene at the request of a member state in case of significant and large—scale cybersecurity incidents. these are the ‘good rangers’ that will be available when we need them, and this is a major lesson drawn from our experiences in the war, the cyberwar in ukraine. now, let me switch to the cybersecurity skills academy, which is a very specific initiative to bridge the skills gap – a gap that will only widen in the coming years due to the new set of legislation that we have been able to produce. the idea of the academy came to us a few years ago when talking to industry leaders at the munich security conference and other stakeholders. they expressed their enthusiasm for moving into cybersecurity considerations but, at the same time, they expressed their concerns about the lack of people that would be necessary to implement these new rules. they even advanced the rather dramatic figure of 500 million cybersecurity experts that we are missing in the coming years. so we need a sufficient and adequately trained cybersecurity workforce in europe, and we need the people to make it happen. in fact, the quality of our cybersecurity depends precisely on the quality and the number of the people that will be necessary. so the academy aims to accelerate our efforts. the academy will be a single point of entry for cybersecurity education and training, as well as for funding opportunities. and the focus will be on cybersecurity professionals to scale up the currently scattered, fragmented efforts that we can see around as a result of initiatives from the private sector, governments, think tanks. we now need to bring all this together. the academy will mainly do four things. first, it will foster knowledge generation and knowledge training, working on a common framework for cybersecurity role profiles. it will enhance the european education and training offer and provide visibility and clarity over training and certification, because we need some sort of certification to be able to testify, to verify, that the various initiatives that are being developed can produce an ecosystem that can be deployed across the european union and across the different sectors. the second task of the academy would be to take specific concrete actions with concrete training pledges. thirdly, to ensure a better channelling and visibility of the many important funding opportunities that we now have for skills—related activities. and finally, to define indicators that will allow us to monitor the evolution of the market and assess the effectiveness of their actions, shifting from measuring progress based on the number of people to the quality and the intensity of the training produced. so the academy will not be a school. it will not be a cumbersome, bureaucratic structure. it will be une plaque tournante, a roving stone, an entry point that will take the shape of a european digital consortium infrastructure. we need this legal structure because this legal structure would allow us to aggregate different sources of funding and also different sources of certification capacity. the agency will mainly take the form, at the start, of a virtual single point of entry on the digital skills and jobs platform, where interested people can access and find offers from the stakeholders and stakeholders can, in turn, detect and produce training pledges. the implementation of the academy will be supported by eur 10 million in funding from our digital europe programme. honourable members of this house, the cybersecurity skills and the academy part of the cyber package represents, i would say, a step change in the very well—established process under this commission to produce a level of cybersecurity that is no longer a matter for industry but a matter for society. it is no longer a matter of enhancing commercial profit, but it’s a very specific ecosystem of guaranteeing europeans national security.
member of the commission. madam president, honourable members, today more than ever europe, as a global economic and security actor, is, as we know, an increasing target for cyberattacks of all kinds, whether economic, political, commercial or, of course, military. for the past three years, we have been building our cyber resilience by massively consolidating our regulatory framework. first on the key economic players, with the revision of the nis 2 directive, on products as well, both in terms of hardware and software. as we know, products have often been put on the market that were at risk and so we want to avoid that with the cyber resilience act, which now prescribes minimum cybersecurity criteria. but, it must be said, europe did not yet have the operational strength to deal with a coordinated large-scale cyberattack. the proposals we are presenting today therefore complete the creation of a genuine european cyber shield. first, the cyber solidarity act aims to better detect, prepare for and respond to cyber threats together. it has a total budget of €1.1 billion, two thirds of which will come from the union budget. it is organised around three pillars. the first is the creation of a european cyber threat detection infrastructure. it is based around a european network of socs, the security operational centres. these socs will be national, but also european, and will make it possible, thanks to artificial intelligence tools, to drastically reduce the time it takes to detect attacks and to initiate a common threat analysis. it's sort of our galileo of the cyber. we have already started work on this through a pilot project, which already brings together 17 countries in three major socs and will be rolled out gradually this year. the second pillar is the creation of a cyber-emergency mechanism. in the event of an attack, we must have the ability to act, to act quickly and to act together. we are already carrying out, in partnership with the member states, risk analyses on energy, transport and digital infrastructures (especially submarine cables) as well as on space infrastructures. it's kind of our preventive arm. with the creation of a european cyber reserve, we are putting the corrective arm in place today, to identify in advance, but also to mobilise, in the event of a crisis, certified and trusted private service providers, in order to react immediately to an attack by learning from what is happening in ukraine, for example, we have done so. this jointly financed reserve will be ready to intervene at the request of any member state, but also of the institutions of the union or of third countries in our neighbourhood. the third pillar concerns a mechanism for reviewing cyber attacks. when they do, the aim is to collectively analyse what has happened, to learn from it and, of course, to learn and improve. i would stress that these mechanisms and capabilities are, by definition, dual in nature, i.e. they can be deployed in a military context, in line with the strategic compass, which in its new doctrine of defence of the union recognises cyberspace as a contested area, and therefore to be protected. vice-president schinas has already brilliantly presented the european cyber skills academy to you. this is an absolutely essential element of our resilience, because a real global skills race is underway, and europe needs to be able to rapidly increase its training capacity. in conclusion, in the face of a growing and more pressing threat, europe is organising. of course, we do not do this by isolating ourselves. protection does not mean protectionism or isolationism. in cyber more than anywhere else, the key is cooperation, and that is why we are already working with nato to strengthen our cooperation on cyber and securing critical networks. this is also why i have started a cyber dialogue between the us and europe with the us secretary of state for homeland security, alejandro mayorkas. this is a trusting and close cooperation we are establishing on a crucial subject. just as the us adopted a new cyber strategy a month ago, which takes the european regulatory approach, it is now our responsibility to better organise our operational cooperation. this is the whole point of the cyber package that my colleague margaritis schinas and i are presenting today.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, vice-president schinas, commissioner breton, i think when we talk about cyber, i think there’s a lot we can learn from ukraine and how it managed its response to the russian invasion. i say this because ukraine is no stranger to russia’s cyber warfare, but we’ve all been in awe of its ability to keep its critical infrastructure broadly operating during the unrelenting hybrid and kinetic attacks against it. and i think one core lesson from ukraine is that the public and private sectors have to collaborate more together. this is why, for me, it is important to have the cyber solidarity act, and i very much welcome it. the act will create a form of collective cyber defence for the european union and the idea that when one member state is attacked, we all have the tools to rally support and to rally assistance for it. the act also establishes a critical new public-private partnership, bringing the expertise of the private sector within the cyber reserve and the coordinating power of the public sector. on the skills initiative that vice president schinas talked extensively on, it’s another critical tool for building this much needed resilience. i think with this act, now, we see the different layers of cybersecurity legislation in place – again, as the commissioners mentioned, now we have the cyber resilience act, the cyber solidarity act, the nis2. and these are all some sorts of acts working in a jigsaw together to make sense of each other. but also most importantly, and the key here, is that we must make sure to implement those laws from here onwards, making them work for the business and for the citizens. because we have to remember that the cyber defence does not start in a text, does not start in the eu act, in an agency, or in security services. it starts from the desktops, from the laptops in the business offices, from those devices. i hope that today we have put another basis to support that protection.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, cybersecurity attacks have increased in terms of numbers, in terms of impact and even in terms of complexity. the attack surface continues to grow with new cyber threats and devastating effects on our economies, on the well-being of our citizens, on the well-being of our businesses as well. new technologies and digital products and services are creating challenges for individuals and governments to meet the requirements of the modern era and protect themselves from new forms of cyberattacks. the development, adoption and use of digital products and services on a large scale require high levels of trust from their users, an appropriate cybersecurity certification process and even high standards. with more than 22 billion devices worldwide connected to the internet of things by 2024, it products and services should include fewer vulnerabilities and security standards embedded in their life cycle. we also need more cooperation to reduce the risk of cyber attacks and improve the resilience of the european union's important infrastructure, infrastructure such as our hospitals, power plants and digital networks. finally, we lack experts with the cyber skills needed to combat and prevent these attacks in both the public and private sectors. therefore, i am pleased that the commission has taken steps to address these problems so that we can work together towards a stronger and more coordinated cybersecurity response at union level that builds an open, secure space.
mr president, mr commissioner, dear colleagues, i can describe the guidelines for the budget 2024 with one sentence: it is a matchmaking process where the priorities meet the money. and i think this is good. the recent years, though – years of war and crisis – request a lot from us. they demand investments in protection and security. i give you two examples. security means commitment. so security at our external borders requires immediate acceptance of bulgaria and romania in the schengen area – an immediate one, both countries are deserving this. and it requires from us increased financial support to the border management mechanism and visa. so i call on my colleagues to support this paragraph in the guidelines. we depend on that security and we cannot leave those member states who are on the front line to fight for us alone. protection means action, so our eu farmers are suffering from the war as well, because of the import from third countries of grain. of course we support those who suffer. we show this every day, but we cannot leave behind the farmers. so i call on the european commission to support the european farmers who suffer from the war as everybody else. turning a blind eye to the problem is not only destroying eu farming, but also encourages euroscepticism. i think the eu budget is the image-maker of our union and now we can prove that it can serve for better.
the risks are high for the european union's 2024 budget. the current situation requires an unprecedented response from the european union budget to reflect the realities around us and protect jobs, workers, youth, children, the elderly, and other vulnerable groups in the recovery of our economy. the budget for the coming year should be in line with our political commitments on key programmes for youth, children, workers, health and recovery in a just transition from the crisis and war in ukraine. unfortunately, existing programmes and financial instruments are no longer enough to support people, and new solutions and a socially responsible budget are needed to defend the rights and funds of european citizens where resources are most needed. we urgently need a european social resilience package and a european union fund for social emergencies, for crises, so that europe can react more quickly to crises of different nature, which are becoming increasingly urgent. we also need a european unemployment reinsurance scheme to strengthen social dialogue and collective bargaining and provide sufficient funding for the child guarantee.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a 'blue card' intervention. i would like to ask the honourable member whether she has ever seen a rescue operation by the maritime rescue service, whether she has seen how her government has prevented european rescue ships from reaching a port for more than 100 hours. i'm simply asking you if you've seen it, because i have, off the coast of italy with the open arms, when the libyan guard was stopping and attacking. when your government said not to let that ship in and that ship had to go to the port of barcelona. please tell me if you've seen him.
mr president, dear colleagues, if a certain method to solve a problem doesn’t work, then after some time it’s evident that one stops using that method and tries something else. it’s just human logic. the same is true for tackling migration. this debate illustrates that the way the eu has tried to tackle the migration crisis over the past few years has been a spectacular failure. the fundamental reason for the catastrophic situation in the mediterranean is that europe basically still tolerates illegal entries into its own territory. and as long as it stays like that, migrants will keep coming illegally. they will pay the smugglers, they risk their lives and this situation will continue. now we all know that the vast majority of the people coming are not really refugees: they are economic migrants who simply take advantage of the weakness of europe and of the fact that we don’t even enforce the existing laws and rules that we do have. there’s absolutely no point in talking about solving the migration crisis or creating legal pathways as long as this stays like that. these gaps have to be closed. right now, the eu should do everything in its power to help italy to defend the european border, and all who have no right to stay must be sent back to where they came from immediately.
mr president, madam minister, commissioner, do you really want to save lives? so let us not only speak of the need for european solidarity to save lives in the mediterranean, but also demand action from the african union, some of whose member states share the other side of the mediterranean and also have safe ports which they systematically refuse to open. since 2014, more than 20,000 people have lost their lives trying to cross the mediterranean. a few days ago, 29 migrants drowned off the coast of tunisia, as always mostly young men. these tragedies are unacceptable. then it's time to show firmness. and to remind african states of their duty to their youth, rather than burdening the europeans who are already showing immense solidarity by contributing more than 20 billion euros annually in development aid to africa. italy, overwhelmed by the mass arrivals on its coasts, has just declared a migration emergency. the whole of europe should do the same, because the deadly spiral of incentives to illegal immigration must be broken. breaking the economic model of smugglers who take advantage of our weaknesses and failings to prosper on the misery of those who dream of a better fate, aided by the complicit and irresponsible action of some ngos. give frontex the human and material resources it needs rather than freezing its budget and turning it into an agency for the protection of fundamental rights rather than for the protection of our borders. outsource the asylum process to countries far from the eu. finally, make our aid conditional on results in the area of migration. establish an effective european return policy. europeans want a firm and humane migration pact that is in line with our values. only in this way can we really and permanently save lives in the mediterranean, which is not meant to be a graveyard.
mr. chairman, please! the mediterranean sea is becoming the world's largest mass grave. the first quarter of this year was the deadliest since 2017. the situation in north africa is extremely tense, particularly in the maghreb countries. and the many global food crises and food prices are adding to the misery. saving lives at sea is a fundamental obligation of international law. any delay or even obstruction of rescue operations is a crime against humanity. italy is under pressure. and europe has to help her. but minister salvini's threats to control the border with slovenia are populist and a dangerous distraction from the real problems. they are also a breeding ground for intolerance. minister salvini, slovenia is not the problem and the numbers show it. but it can be part of the european solution in its own right. and this is solidarity, immediate reform of the asylum system, rapid rescue action. but most of all, tolerance, respect and heart.
mr president, i had written something else, but then i got stuck on the right-wing words. it's against the law. it's a little irregular. the ones who deserve it. violation of international law. but, i say, do you really think that a mother who gets on a boat with her child to cross the mediterranean wonders if what she is doing is illegal or if she is in some way violating international law? is that the analysis of the right? i believe that this shows, now more than ever, that we need european responsibility for new rules on migration and asylum policies, because without rules this right wing can appoint commissioners with special powers on migration, can restrict reception facilities, can actually limit the action of the coast guard, putting human lives at risk. i mean, as usual, a right-wing that's strong with the weak and weak with the strong.
mr president, as has been said, today's debate is the result of a request from my group, the european people's party, which has, however, seen a different wording of the title, showing that some people are probably more interested in the form than the substance. we have discussed immigration in this house many, many times, and each time the word most used, indeed abused, has been 'solidarity', which, unfortunately, we must acknowledge, is never practiced, but only announced. it is an objective fact that only a few, very few states, including italy, are engaged in the difficult task of managing migration flows, saving thousands and thousands of lives, beyond the speculations or political controversies of the moment. time and misfortune have shown that no one can do it alone, including italy, despite its efforts. it is not surprising, and certainly not alarming, that italy or other countries, faced with a situation which is likely to worsen in the coming months, should take measures of their own, with the sole intention of laying down certain rules for the management of migration flows. if that is not what you want, then let us try to shake up our europe. we are now taking action with common and concrete solutions, for example by strengthening border checks and cooperation agreements with countries of origin, both to curb departures and to guarantee the return of those who are unlawfully present. but above all, we are also trying to make access to european funds dependent not only on the rule of law but also on the mandatory relocation of those who arrive in the border states. i understand that europe is currently facing many ambitious challenges, on energy, the environment, the digital world and human rights, but it seems that it does not realise that the immigration emergency must also be a priority, above all to contain the anti-european sentiment that is likely to prevail in the run-up to the next european elections and to leave room for extreme solutions, which would obviously be the only answer to the european union's immobility.
mr president, we need to turn words into deeds. we are hearing such speeches as we begin to see human tragedies unfolding on our seas, before our very eyes. when we see a room full of children, women, men, who lose their lives making these kinds of journeys. and so there is a need for solidarity. solidarity on a european basis that is no longer just a beautiful, written word on paper, in the treaty - sanctioned under article 5 - but it is a real solidarity. real solidarity with border countries to continue saving lives so that there is ultimately solidarity between all countries on a european basis, so that protection can truly be given to everyone. our approach to the migration pact must, again, be based on solidarity: solidarity with those in need of protection, solidarity with our citizens and solidarity between member states. we must fight for an agreement based on solidarity both towards those seeking protection but also between member states. with only a few countries accounting for the majority of arrivals, the status quo is neither fair nor sustainable. solidarity between member states should be the rule and not the exception!
madam president, thank you prime minister for being with us today. for the european project to remain relevant, we must speak about people's priorities. and one of the biggest priorities that people are, and citizens are talking about is the priority of strengthening the social sphere on a european basis, in a situation where we have very high inflation rates, high energy and food prices, rising unemployment, rising poverty and rising social inequalities and war in ukraine. it is therefore important that the principles of the european pillar of social rights, the sdgs, continue to be the guiding light for reforms and investments. social rights should be given equal importance to macroeconomic and environmental objectives with the common aim of improving the well-being of our european citizens. and so i would also like to ask you what our priorities are and should be at the moment as europeans too, where the social field is also concerned, even though we also have a commissioner responsible for the social field who is doing a good job, who is also luxembourgish.
madam president, commissioner, despite the crises caused by the covid-19 pandemic and the war in ukraine, the specter of recession seems to be moving away from the european economy. yet, a recent survey revealed that nearly half of the most modest french people have been forced to skip at least one meal a day. this is further evidence of the deleterious effects of inflation on our continent. the urgency of finding room for manoeuvre is pressing throughout the union, and particularly acute in regions in transition and those suffering from structural and permanent handicaps, such as the european overseas countries. europe can and must respond by taking strong measures on state aid, so as to give more room to narrow the gap that has grown between the most developed and urbanised regions and the less favoured territories. the measures envisaged by the commission, such as the increase of the de minimis threshold or the deepening of the temporary crisis and transition framework, are welcome. however, they seem insufficient to effectively support employment and smes in less economically attractive territories, where deserts in basic public services such as health or education are increasing. for these territories to be able to play their full part in the emergence of a fully sovereign european green industry, the curve must be pushed further. for example, considering that a euro from the european budget is subject to the same rules whether it is managed directly by the commission, by a member state or by a regional authority. it is also absurd that the commission considers regions to be large enterprises and therefore applies draconian rules. why is the duration of the egfr not the same as that of the multiannual financial framework? these simple and common sense measures would make life much easier for the authorities managing the structural funds. expectations are high. they are above all relevant to the just transition challenges we have collectively decided to tackle. the commission must listen to this and act accordingly by providing for specific measures for regions suffering from severe and permanent disadvantages.
madam president, commissioner, this debate on state aid rules is a way of exposing the fundamental error of defining single and uniform regulations in a territory as vast and as diverse as that of the european union. this can only increase inequalities and give an advantage to regions that do not suffer from any structural handicaps. in the past it was thought that equality could be restored by budgetary allocation alone, but a budgetary envelope alone can do nothing if the conditions for its use are not adapted to the real data of the territory concerned. i come to the islands, since your reply to our colleague omarjee totally ignored them. the regulation of de minimis aid is essential in the islands because the economic fabric is made up of very small enterprises. the real cost of production in the island territories is 10% higher than elsewhere. many more projects could be carried out if a different de minimis threshold were applied in the islands to take account of this. article 174 of the lisbon treaty provides for the adaptation of a regulation to the particular situation of the islands, but the commission refuses to implement it. the economic future of the island territories will depend to a large extent on such a breakthrough in the regulatory field.
mr commissioner, mr vice-president, colleagues, honourable visitors, cohesion policy is the one that brings the two key principles of the european union to life. on the one hand, the principle of solidarity, which means that more resources are allocated to those regions of the country which are most affected, whether remote, mountainous or less developed. cohesion policy also complies with the principle of subsidiarity, i.e. it decides at local level how to proceed. in recent years, we have seen a number of crises, and in these crises we have also made legitimate use of state aid and have responded to these sometimes asymmetrical crises that occur across countries. we have now also approached this principle of state aid for green technologies. i think we have a problem here, because it turns out that rich countries pay more for this aid. in march 2022, 77% of this aid was in germany and france, 53% and 24%. for example, these two countries have 42% of gdp and this aid is asymmetric. i am even more afraid that the aid will go to the centres and not to the rural areas, where we particularly need these instruments of cohesion policy. i therefore ask and urge the commission to bear in mind the problem of equitable development and in particular the problem of what our president omarjee has said, the problem of these affected regions.
madam president, commissioner schmit, colleagues, never before has the european union faced so many crises at once. our regions are key in addressing them. they need relief from bureaucracy and more flexibility to deal with the multiple crises. i therefore welcome the temporary crisis and transition framework adopted by the commission. it enables member states and regions to tackle the challenges by supporting relevant sectors on the path to a net-zero economy, a transition which we urgently need. i, however, think that not enough has been done. the increase in the de minimis limits does not even compensate for inflation. the notification burden must be reduced. state aid control needs to concentrate on substantial subsidies which could seriously distort the single market. but we must be cautious. let us guard cohesion principles and make sure that territorial divides are not widened. the cohesion i mentioned can be more effectively addressed by financially supporting member states with smaller economic capacity than by being overly restrictive on small—scale regional state aid. i therefore ask the commission to ensure a legal framework that fosters the transition by allowing relevant small—scale state aid alongside providing more support through cohesion policy instruments where the member states’ own resources are insufficient. this is a joint effort. let us make europe a global model for a just transition.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that cohesion policy is the main instrument available to regions throughout the european union to reduce disparities between them. unfortunately, in the last two years, we have seen major challenges, which simply bite the economic and social cohesion of the regions, as a result of challenges that we all feel; whether it's the energy crisis, the covid-19 pandemic, inflation, or the war in ukraine, the effects are more than visible. in this context, the regions are affected differently. some were better equipped to face the challenges mentioned above, while others were not. member states have had difficulty managing these situations, including by granting de minimis aid in various sectors. as we know, however, this aid is limited to values which, in my view, need to be revised. we need to raise these thresholds so that member states can intervene effectively and, of course, differentiated. the cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy are inextricably linked to each other. so i would like to highlight here the challenges facing smes, especially in rural areas and especially in countries in the vicinity of ukraine. the current reality of duty-free trade flows from ukraine creates major difficulties for many economic sectors in the border regions. the de minimis aid they need must be properly sized, tailored to their needs and, of course, much larger than at present. otherwise, the depopulation of these areas will be even more accelerated and this must be avoided. (the speaker agreed to reply to a 'blue card' intervention)
, response to the 'blue card' intervention. i would start with one issue that is non-negotiable: support for ukraine must continue. at the same time, however, i fully agree with you that there are problems in poland, romania, bulgaria and slovakia today and the european commission, commissioner, must react at this time, including what it means to buy these cereals, which are today creating major difficulties for farmers in these areas. i have been very clear: solidarity cannot be called into question, but at the same time i have asked you to bear in mind that farmers in these areas have problems and need a firm response to these problems and we cannot be left alone to face these challenges.
madam president, the fact that the commission has decided to allow member states to support their economies in the wake of adverse economic developments caused by a series of crises, to mention russia's aggression in ukraine, is quite understandable and i naturally welcome this step. and of course, i also welcome the support for the green transformation, which is actually connected vessels. both the temporary transition framework and the amendment of the general block exemption regulation will undoubtedly help to accelerate investment and financing, also in the field of clean energy production, which is one of the important objectives of european policies, which i also support. but this does not mean that we can forget about cohesion policy and its principles, which are laid down in european primary law. so i ask: what are the guarantees that cohesion policy will not become the proverbial cinderella? how are articles 174 and 175 of the treaty, which govern the principles of cohesion, reflected in these initiatives? and how can the provisions on outermost regions, transition regions and the most disadvantaged regions be integrated into the de minimis regulation? i have my doubts about this procedure. we are living in difficult times, no doubt, which force us to make compromises, but i would not like to see the basic principles of cohesion policy sacrificed for economic and environmental reasons.
mr president, mr commissioner, colleagues, equality is not equity; equality treats all regions equally. while equity recognises that each region has different circumstances and allocates the resources and opportunities necessary to achieve an equal outcome. additional assistance to regions suffering from serious and permanent disadvantages is needed to meet renewable energy targets, to successfully pivot to clean technologies, as well as to address the increased impact of the pandemic, the energy crisis and inflation. it shall also take into account labour market restrictions, extra costs for importing raw materials and consumer goods; the commission's communication on the future of the european union's external relations is a good example of this. any revision of the rules on state aid and de minimis aid should fully incorporate the principle of 'do not undermine cohesion'. they should pay specific attention to our citizens, smes and businesses coming from the islands, who continuously face higher prices and restrictions resulting from insularity. so we do not let them fall back. so my question is, how will the commission achieve a truly equal outcome by embracing equity with justice? other
commissioner dalli, ladies and gentlemen, five years ago i stood up in this house and said loud and clear: fear and shame must change sides. we're five years later. it's not a giant leap, it's a giant leap for us women. it is known that one in three women in europe has been the victim of physical or sexual violence. more than half of the women have been harassed. seven people die every day from domestic violence. remember, covid created a ghost pandemic, the pandemic of domestic violence. these data are chilling. but i want to say to european women: we women are strongly present today in this chamber, where parliament will allow the ratification of the istanbul convention by the european union tomorrow. so i say to you, we will be tough on the six out of 27 countries that still act in defiance of our rights. yes, the women's rights. we are all behind you, commissioner. you're not alone. no matter what the far right says. we are here to ensure the protection of all women by all means that the treaty has given us. i say to you, we can be proud of our house. women must be in the spotlight, and woman power!
madam president! it is appalling that today, in the 21st century, domestic violence against women and children is still justified in some member states. but he's been working very hard to protect the embryos, looking into our bedrooms, making decisions for the woman that sometimes lead to her death. in my country, only one in ten women report sexual violence to the police. the same is true of other forms of violence. the statistics look very good, but the facts? every year, hundreds of women are killed, and thousands are raped and beaten. "protect children from western sexualization", "protect children from sex education", some politicians are shouting. i've never heard the same politicians shouting "let's protect children from pedophiles!" and often children are used as campaign sticks, while real drama is playing out in schools and homes at the same time. the state, the administration, the institutions and the environment that should be responding are deaf and blind. and as a result, we're seeing a huge wave of depression and suicide among women, teenagers and younger children. and the outrageous statistics of children being tortured and killed in the privacy of their own homes. that is so sad. if the state and state-created institutions do not act and respond, then the adoption of the istanbul convention by the entire european union may be the only means of any change and the only effective means of combating violence.
madam president, dear commissioner, the time has come for the european union to join the istanbul convention as soon as possible and to do so, the vote before us is essential to move forward effectively. this step is important. it is important for the protection of that girl who is experiencing violence against her own mother, in a space that should be safe, about even the young girl who is harassed on her way to school. even for the battered woman struggling to find adequate shelter: the european union is also invited to join this convention on the criminalisation of various acts of violence, on mandatory investment in education, in training for experts, in specific programmes for aggressors, in appropriate support services which should first and foremost seek to prevent violence. so support must start in our schools, in teaching our children to recognise the warning signs of violence itself, so that they know where to look for help. let us continue to fight, let us take all measures to ensure that violence against women, which is a clear violation of human rights, is never tolerated.
madam president, it is really good that today, on europe day, we have also discussed the subject of european skills, the european year of skills. it is important to support a skilled workforce in the areas of language skills, it skills, of course, technical skills. all the skills we need to do our good work are constantly evolving, and european workers in particular need them. we're going to need a lifetime of retraining, and a lifetime of learning, actually. what we are playing is the competitiveness of the whole european union. and those better job opportunities are supposed to protect us from exclusion, from discrimination, from extremism. so this whole subject is very important and i am very pleased that the european commission and the european parliament are aware of this importance. even by the outcome of this discussion, they're on the same side. this is our future, this is our lives.
the president, initially, co-chaired the commission's laws as an important year in the organization, but this has to continue for 12 months. and there are many who can do that. august is a day of laws, but we're doing it in every industry where we're looking for people who are using the laws in the sciences and not in the sciences themselves. and there's a reason in a lot of places we don't have them in our homes. therefore, in particular, the focus on education school education will be given to the secondary and the tertiary levels at the secondary level, and the emphasis on young people going to school will be given to those who are not yet able to read and follow, and in particular on the provision of education in the universities, especially in the field of technology, so that the provision of education to young people will be accompanied by the provision of education in the secondary and tertiary levels.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for this constructive but also ambitious debate. a debate that put forward a number of ideas, but which mainly emphasised the conviction and the need to make skills one of the instruments for moving europe forward. so we have chosen this date, 9 may, and some of you have alluded to it. i think there's a symbolism in that choice because there's a symbolism in that date. the date of 9 may is the founding act of europe, but it is a founding act based, to quote schuman, on concrete achievements, on de facto solidarity. it is also a founding act, which took place at a time when europe was in danger, when world peace was in danger, when europe finally had to pull itself together, to unite in the face of these dangers. there are many similarities with our europe today, which is certainly much more united, which has made enormous progress since robert schuman's famous declaration, but which at the same time today is also facing dangers and, above all, profound changes in its globalised environment. this message about skills is, of course, a message to our economy. this is a message to our companies. this is a message to the member states. but first and foremost, it must be a message to the citizens, as was the schuman declaration. it was concrete. it called on the tens of thousands of steel and coal workers to tell them that only together could they be rebuilt. the european union must not only rebuild europe materially but also politically, and i would even say spiritually. today, the european year of skills is about giving a strong impetus to all europeans. an invitation to all europeans, regardless of age, regardless of origin. to say that we are in a situation of ecological, globalized, digital transformation, but that there is a way out for everyone. there is a way out of this, towards progress, towards prosperity, towards more justice. that was schumann's message, and it must be the message of all of us today. addressing european citizens also shows them that the year of skills is not a one-off event. the year of skills will not end on 8 may 2024. the year of skills should be held every year. every year we have to think about one thing: how can we improve the skills of europeans, develop talent, enable young and old to move around in the economic space, but also in the human space, the space of european citizens. it is also a sign of confidence to be given to european citizens. a message of confidence that we want to build in europe. a learning society, open to all, a learning society which makes lifelong learning, in the end, one of the pillars of our economic development, but also of our social development, and i would even say of our democratic development. so we must now continue to work on this year, extend it, and above all make it understood by our fellow citizens, not as something that is far away from them, but something that is part of their daily life, that must be part of their hopes of having a good job, a good job, the opportunity to move forward in their lives, not only in their professional life, but in their life in general.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, as we can tell from today’s interventions, there is great support and enthusiasm for launching the european year of skills and its core objectives and that is very good. we can all relate to the challenges that come with the digital and green transition and why upskilling and reskilling the workforce is so essential to strengthen europe’s competitiveness. we already face fierce competition amongst companies for skilled workers. i dare to say that most companies already understand or will soon understand that it is in their interest to support further upskilling and reskilling of their workers. at the same time, this is an investment in the long-term competitiveness of the company and their human capital that will both pay off. such an investment is also in line with the workers increasing expectations vis-à-vis their employers, taking into account the current labour market context. we should use the current momentum to promote upskilling and reskilling opportunities across various policy areas. it is in our common responsibility and for a tangible outcome that we will all benefit from in the long term. because behind these words about upskilling and reskilling, there are people – people with dreams and competences that are essential for our future european labour market. thank you very much for this debate and thank you for your attention.
in writing. – there is no european transition without european citizens. we are preparing the eu for the net zero industries, for sustainable transport, for new technologies. it is time we plan ahead to ensure that all these create opportunities, jobs and incentives for workers of all ages, especially those incurring additional difficulties when it comes to entering the labour market. this strategy must include people with disabilities, those without much formal education, women and the elderly. the european year of skills should be an opportunity for the eu and its member states to invest in adequate and evenly—matched skills, empowering individuals and entrepreneurs to participate in our society and market. this must be done through education and partnerships between all stakeholders – governments, schools, universities and the industry, developing curricula aligned with the challenges and opportunities faced, as well as the sustainable and digital skills needed. it must also be done through facilitating the employment of skilled individuals. the year of skills should additionally put value in the role that regional programmes and cohesion policy can play in addressing the shortage of staff and skills in heavily affected sectors and regions, to ensure that we really leave no one behind.
madam president, mental health must be viewed as a public health problem that can affect a person from an early age to old age. ensuring an adequate response requires public health services to ensure policies on prevention, diagnosis, treatment, monitoring and reintegration. only the public service can truly respond to this design without making the response dependent on the individual's economic situation. the cumulative effects of the worsening economic and social situation, the increase in labour exploitation, environmental degradation, the challenges facing children and adolescents today, among others, are particularly striking. the improvement of working conditions, the regulation of working hours and the improvement of wages are essential for combating mental illness in the workplace. it is also relevant to strengthen investment in public health services by providing human and structural resources and resources to increase the financial allocation for mental health, in order to promote regular coverage of mental health in hospital and primary health services, without asymmetries, in response to the identified real needs.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the eu’s first comprehensive approach to mental health provides a strategic framework for concrete actions on mental health. with strong support from citizens, stakeholders, member states and this house, its focus is holistic and prevention oriented. surveys, including the eurobarometer, show that 46% of eu citizens have had an emotional or psychosocial problem in the last 12 months. more than half of people with a mental health issue have not received help from a professional. these figures tell us that we must act and that we must act swiftly. so i welcome the support from the european parliament and the sant committee, in particular, in making mental health a priority and in calling for decisive action. that action is now properly framed and supported at eu level by our strategic approach. the fact that awareness around mental health issues has never been higher has raised expectations. at the same time, it helped to bring mental health to the top of the political agenda, as it should be. our high-level conference on 10 october strongly confirmed this. hundreds of participants came together to raise awareness, to hear from those with lived experience and to promote action on the ground. to that end, we are now focusing our efforts on supporting member states in rolling out the 20 flagship initiatives in our comprehensive approach. to make them a reality, we have identified funding opportunities of over eur 1.2 billion and a set of concrete actions. in addition, the eu has provided long-standing support to brain research and innovation, including mental health. eur 765 million are allocated to ongoing research projects pertaining to mental health under horizon 2020 and horizon europe. honourable members, the comprehensive approach is the framework for a ‘mental health across policies’ approach. it acknowledges the impact of the different determinants of mental health. accordingly, along with the world health organisation, we will support member states in building capacity to integrate mental health across policies. in collecting best practices, we will work with member states to improve the mental health of the most vulnerable individuals. at the same time, we are developing guidance with the expert group on public health to address stigma and discrimination. in january, we will launch a multidisciplinary training programme on mental health for professionals, together with a cross-border exchange program. also, in the online world, the digital services act recognises the need to protect the mental wellbeing of users of online platforms. in short, we are in the process of rolling out specific actions and are putting a spotlight on mental health. honourable members, our shared commitment to improving mental health in the eu is clear. thanks to our flagship actions, we are delivering on that commitment together with member states and stakeholders and with your support. now it is up to us all to keep mental health high on the political agenda so that we make a real difference in people’s lives. it is by making that difference that we can ensure solid foundations for our european health union, and a healthier future for all europeans.
the discussion is over. the vote will be delivered tomorrow. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 of this regulation.
in writing. – as a union, we are seeing an uptick in often undiagnosed mental health issues like anxiety, depression and stress. it can be observed how one reason for this has been digitalisation. the increasing pace of online social interactions, coupled with a thorough lack of regulation are two root causes to this that we must address. what is clear is that the psychological impact of digitalisation is especially affecting the most vulnerable among us. we must look towards our children and our youth who not only have the easiest access to social media, but are also subjected to societal pressure during their most formative and vulnerable years. the time is now to act effectively at eu level to eliminate the stigma surrounding mental health so those who are suffering can come forward and ask for help, including through accessible mental health treatment. one first step would be to finally declare a european year of mental health. this point, mentioned in the report, was also our joint call as the mep alliance for mental health back in 2021. let us keep in mind that the well-being of our society starts with mental health!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after the pandemic and the war in ukraine, the green transition today presents us with new strategic vulnerabilities, those on the raw materials essential for the production of solar panels, wind turbines, batteries and much more. this is why today's vote is a key step towards creating new extraction and refining capacity in europe, to ensure higher recycling rates and to strengthen our strategic autonomy. but to be freer, we also need a new global protagonist. the commission has decided to make a decision on the basis of the present proposal. dear colleagues, in the face of climate change and the challenges ahead, we cannot be like the sovereignists, denying problems and denying solutions, because the greatest vulnerability we have is that which comes from those who think that each small state can face the challenges of the future, without realizing that multilateralism and global cooperation are essential to tackling the problems of our time.
mr president, the pandemic and war in ukraine have closed global supply chains, caused a shortage of raw materials and made europe realize that strategic raw materials are critical to achieving environmental and climate objectives as well as our digital transition. unfortunately, over the past few decades, we have become too dependent, or even overdependent, on third countries for the extraction of the critical material needed to carry out the ecological transition and digital transition. in the current geopolitical context, this constitutes an unacceptable strategic vulnerability. we need to urgently address the increase in demand for critical raw materials by supporting resilient and diversified supply chains to meet current and future demand for the european union's industrial sectors, avoid supply chain disruptions, reduce dependency, and maintain high social and environmental standards. they should also support the promotion of the development and use of raw materials and alternative measures to ensure the european union's access to a secure supply, to a sustainable supply of critical raw materials.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, honourable members, i think this debate has shown the vital importance of the european health data space as a pillar of the strong european health union that we all have been building and advocating. it’s by no coincidence. again, i express my thanks to the two parliamentary committees that have worked jointly on this proposal that brings together two hugely important topics: that of health and that of our privacy. i fully agree that health data could not be more sensitive. our general data protection regulation fully recognises this, and what i can assure you is that we will never lose sight of it. i also share the parliament’s view that for this to be able to be really an important part of the health union, it has to have the full trust of the patients and citizens. let me use some of the words that you have used in in this debate. you have spoken of this being a massive opportunity. you have spoken of patients and citizens needing to have control over their own data. you have spoken of the importance of interoperability. sara cerdas spoke of the importance as a major step in the european health union. i noted as well many of the comments. there was also a comment here from, i think it was mep metz, on giving hope to those patients with rare diseases. this, i think, is important. these are our concepts, our principles that are close to all our hearts. but because there is a possibility that citizens and patients are following this debate today, i want to address two issues. first of all, on the issue to do with primary use, because a great deal has been heard. on primary use, the citizen has full control of what data is shared. so they have the possibility to restrict the visibility of parts of their data, including to certain categories, for example, of health professionals. so you are able to indicate the health data access service if you don’t want your health data to be accessible via the health professional access service. you can do this either on a general basis for all of your data, or you can do it for part of your data. for example, i don’t want my new gp to know that i had a treatment for a mental health issue several years ago. that is provided in the proposal. because there was a lot of discussion on opt-out and opt-in for secondary use, i want to take just half a minute and just really emphasise why we have taken this in the proposal as a commission. we believe that opt-out would seriously hamper the usefulness of the european health data space for researchers and innovators because, in order for secondary use to be important, as i said at the beginning, it needs to be representative. if there are relevant differences between those who choose to opt out and those who do not, this could affect the bias of research results, especially for minority groups. i trust that this will be a discussion that will be held tomorrow. for us, it’s important that we get the details right. of course, it’s important that we have data protection and fully respect fundamental rights of citizens and of patients. but ultimately, i believe that together with this house, we can work together in building a strong european health data space, a strong european health union. we need to be ambitious, and i very much look forward to the trilogue starting as soon as possible and being able to deliver jointly within this parliament’s mandate. once again, thank you for the very close collaboration. thank you for the debate today and i look forward to the discussion tomorrow.
the debate is closed. the vote will be tomorrow.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission communication on parliament's requirement to respect the right to be free of charge status after 3 years (2023/3019(rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the european parliament’s resolution, adopted on the basis of article 225 of the treaty on 21 january 2021, put telework and the right to disconnect on the political agenda in the aftermath of the covid-19 crisis and the context of an increasingly digitalised world of work. telework has significantly increased during the restrictions due to the pandemic, but a significant share of workers has continued to work remotely or under hybrid working arrangements. while the flexibility deriving from telework offers opportunities, it can also challenge the work-life balance by blurring the lines between professional and private life. at the same time, digitalised working patterns, the ‘always-on’ culture and the related risks for workers’ health have brought the issue of the right to disconnect to the forefront. while recognising both advantages and disadvantages of digitalisation and the use of digital tools for work purposes, parliament’s resolution called on the commission to put forward a directive on the right to disconnect and a legislative framework for remote work, with a view to protecting workers’ rights and working conditions. the resolution highlighted the fundamental role that social partners have in identifying and implementing measures with regard to the right to disconnect and – as a first step – recommended that social partners take implementing measures within a three-year time framework. parliament and the commission concurred on the key role of social partners in this regard, and for this reason, the commission welcomed the eu social partners’ decision to engage in negotiations with a view to reaching an agreement to be turned into eu law. while respecting the social partners’ autonomy, the commission supported them in their endeavour, providing technical and legal assistance. therefore, we regret that the eu cross-industry social partners did not come to a successful conclusion of their negotiations. this could have been a good opportunity for tackling the challenges and opportunities related to telework and the right to disconnect in a balanced and informed manner, to the benefit of workers and companies alike. we all concur that regulating telework and the right to disconnect through cross-industry collective bargaining at european level would have been the best way to proceed. but now we are faced with a different scenario. in the letter sent to the commission to inform about the negative outcome of their negotiations, the social partners stressed that the file is now back in the hands of the commission. in response to the european parliament resolution on the right to disconnect, the commission committed to follow up with a legislative act in line with president von der leyen’s political commitment regarding article 225 resolutions. therefore, it will now swiftly decide on how best to proceed in full respect of the proportionality, subsidiarity and better law-making principles and the consultation with the eu social partners foreseen under article 154. the commission intends to live up to its commitment and proceed with the consultation of social partners on the way forward. this is also timely, with a view to the sectoral framework agreement of the european social dialogue committee for central government administration and the request from the sectoral social partners to turn into a legislative proposal their agreement on digitalisation of the public administrations. the commission is well aware of the importance of adequate regular telework and the right to disconnect in a world of work, which is rapidly changing. it has it has committed to follow up to the parliament’s resolution with a legislative act and it will kick-start the steps to do so.
for the epp group. mr president, mr commissioner, my dear colleagues agius salibo and pisslar, who have worked on this legislation and in this position and have been dealing with this subject, i think you have made quite clear here the course of the preparation of this material. we took a clear position on this, and i'm happy about it, because it led or gave a signal during covid-19 and it was actually revolutionary in its time when we took it, and it pointed to the need to divide work time and family time, and the fact that we started discussing it in the european parliament led to a number of parents, especially women, calling me and saying, "yeah, i had a problem with that, too, and thank you for solving it". this is a theme that unites people across the european union. it's very powerful, and it's strong, especially because, like during covid-19, a lot of parents turned on their computers at seven in the morning and turned them off at midnight, because even though they weren't physically at work, the work tasks or their bosses were coming systematically. i think that this is a subject that needs to be discussed and discussed in the european parliament. it is often said that social issues are not on the floor of the european parliament. i think this is one of those things that definitely belonged here and will belong in the next election.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, commissioner schmit, digital tools have created an ever-connected, always-on culture that intensifies work and normal working hours. we all know the constant pressure to check work-related emails and messages during our free time, worrying that our employer will demand our immediate attention and that we will not meet the expectations of always being available. less than two weeks ago, eurofound published a study providing further evidence that the existing legislation is not fit to address the risks posed by the always-on culture in our workplace. workers who use digital tools work longer hours with insufficient rest periods, unpaid overtime and health issues linked directly to work-related stress, exhaustion, burnout, isolation, fatigue and depression. where the right to disconnect has been implemented, the data clearly shows a positive effect on work-life balance and the health and well-being of our people. in january 2021, this house voted overwhelmingly for my report on the right to disconnect, where we demanded the legislative proposals on both the right to disconnect and also on teleworking. while recognising the social partners’ essential role, the report invited social partners to implement measures and adopt an agreement within a three-year time frame. the three years are long over now, and not only is there no agreement, but after more than a year of negotiations, the employers organisations failed to take responsibility for improving workers’ conditions and pulled the plug on the draft agreement with etuc. commissioner schmit, you said back in 2021, when we voted on my report, that as a european, it is difficult for you to accept the right to disconnect is accessible to some workers and some countries, but not to all europeans. i agree with you on this. this is not the european social model. therefore, in line with the political commitment made by commission president von der leyen in her political guidelines, and the commission’s letter sent in response to my report, i call on you immediately before the end of this mandate to bring forward legislation on the right to disconnect and telework. all working people should have adequate protection in these new digital realities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have seen the brutality of the hamas war on the territories of israel during my recent visit to the war zone and i can say to all with certainty: this terrorist organization must be eliminated. hamas opened pandora's box on october 7 and, unfortunately, the drama has since been enormous in the middle east, with a huge human cost to the civilian population on both sides. we have to protect the innocent children. in the midst of all this, there are also the innocent hostages held in the underground tunnels that the terrorists have built. we call for the immediate release of all hostages and the surrender of the hamas criminals responsible for this war. this will put an end to hostilities and we can achieve the goal of a peaceful solution.
mr president, before i begin i wanted to convey a message that you asked me to convey father dionysius mintoff, the founder of the peace laboratory in malta. peace is possible. how can this parliament remain silent in the face of the ongoing genocide in the gaza strip? eighteen thousand people, in a period of a few weeks, were beaten, killed. how can this parliament remain silent when you have 70% of those who are killed, when refugee camps have been bombed, when hospitals have been bombed, 70% of them innocent women and children? these are not hamas. how can this parliament remain silent when in the west bank, when the hamas foot-and-mouth excuse does not exist, we have hundreds of palestinian civilians who have even been killed there too? and then this parliament must be brave and today before tomorrow call for an immediate cessation of hostilities. we cannot work for peace, if we do not ultimately be courageous and pray for this ceasefire as soon as possible.
