madam president, eu governments, including greece and italy, have increasingly criminalised providing support to people in desperate need for help. ngos and churches carrying out life-saving work face huge obstacles in providing assistance on land and search and rescue at sea. they are treated as criminals. and, colleagues, humanitarian assistance is not a crime, it is an international obligation. this criminalisation is a dangerous tendency in europe, fuelled by the lack of an adequate response by the commission and the council. criminalisation is not only illegal, but it also deters people from offering life-saving assistance. and i therefore urge you, on behalf of the greens/efa group, to hold a plenary debate titled ‘criminalisation of humanitarian assistance, including search and rescue’.
mr president, dear colleagues, when looking at the past 30 years, we can all agree that the single market has been essential for european integration. businesses and consumers have benefited and it has strengthened the eu’s position in the world. but please, let’s not only congratulate ourselves. it’s essential that we’re also self-critical on how the single market project has left many people behind, how it has been dominated too often by a neoliberal obsession of market liberalisation, competitiveness and efficiency. the original promise that the social dimension of the union would grow together with the market has not been delivered on. because what we’ve witnessed is the weakening of social protection and a race to the bottom on taxes. national welfare systems, public services and the quality of work are under pressure. and right now, the single market is not successful in avoiding companies profiting from the inflation crisis at the expense of our citizens. the share of labour and income has been declining and the share of capital increased. wealth is unequally distributed across regions and between individuals. and currently two-thirds of all global wealth created since 2020 was captured by the richest 1%. when are we going to find the urgency to fix this? thinking about the future, we have to stop pursuing the single market as a goal in itself, but rather see how we can use it and change it to help our citizens and to build a socially just europe.
president. - mr president, i have been asked to speak on the subject of responsible business. peter berdowski argues that responsible business will cost dutch companies their heads. he does not say a word about irresponsible workers and the cost to nature, and that bothers me. the argument that the netherlands is going to be the dominant country and create an unequal playing field for our companies is a ridiculous argument. because france and germany were already leading the way in the netherlands with legislation to make responsible business conduct a legal obligation. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. in all these countries, steps are also being taken. that is why i have been campaigning for years for a european law that will apply to 27 european countries and to companies from outside europe who want to do business here. that train has left long and wide and before the end of the year that law will be a fact. mr. berdowski is engaged in a rearguard action. it would be a great honour for boskalis to take a constructive stance in this debate and thus once again become the international company of which the netherlands can be proud.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, we can all agree the swedish presidency comes at a crucial time for our union. we see clearly that families are worried about the cost of living, high inflation, economic uncertainty. renew europe’s message: we hear you. we hear you. the solutions do not only lie at the european level, but we have a duty to do everything we can to make people’s lives easier. the best way to fight back is to focus on innovation, secure the green transition, and build a modern european and open economy. that’s why we are pleased that innovation is central to your presidency. renew europe asks that you work to make progress on trade agreements. we won’t grow europe by retreating into ourselves. please keep small and medium—sized enterprises at the forefront of your mind, because we need to deepen our best asset: europe’s single market. if we want to reduce our dependencies, we must ensure our energy security, finalise repowereu and conclude an ambitious chips act. the eu must invest substantially in this crucial industry. colleagues, this weekend we all saw the horrors of the russian regime unleashed on civilians. the terrorism in dnipro is a reminder of everything we are fighting against. russia must be held accountable. we agree with your comments, prime minister. ukraine’s victory is essential. let’s have a coordinated european effort to ensure ukraine has the means to defend itself. elsewhere, we see a barbaric regime in iran sending weapons to russia and executing its own citizens. it’s time for the eu to step up sanctions against iran, sending a powerful signal. and on immigration, colleagues, it’s clear the citizens expect solutions. stronger eu border controls, increased cooperation with third countries. our citizens expect we are in control. dear colleagues, an agreement on our asylum and migration package will be tough, but the rewards will be great. and we count on the swedish presidency to achieve progress on the main files. mr prime minister, we wish you the best for your presidency. trust that you have a partner in the renew europe group. in this year before european elections, it’s time to be bold and to deliver for citizens. and we look forward to a swedish presidency with the innovation of spotify and efficiency of ikea.
madam president, council presidency, mr kristersson and commissioners, the pact on migration and asylum has entered a crucial stage. the council reached agreement on border control and security pretty rapidly, but it stalls on the question of how to share responsibility. the pact is not a pick-and-choose game, it is a package to ensure all elements, protection standards, equal division of responsibility and security measures. and it’s upon the swedish presidency to complete this whole package in time. and the success of the pact hangs upon a strong and effective solidarity mechanism based on common responsibility. this is the key to ending push-back practices and lives lost at sea and the key to ensuring proper asylum procedures. and it’s the key we expect you to use to end the deadlock. and give me one hint. the first-entry rule in the current dublin regulation is not fair for the baltic countries, but it does not work in practice either. but taking common responsibility, which i think we should do, does not mean a common effort to shift it to third countries. this is what happens with prioritising migration in all eu foreign policies. development aid aims at reducing poverty, not at returning migrants. the idea to refuse tariff preferences to the least developed countries, if they don’t cooperate, is a new low in this tendency of migration deals. i wish the swedish government a successful presidency with the right sense of responsibility inside and outside the eu, and a sound moral compass.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i should like to begin by expressing my satisfaction that sweden now has a government at the helm which has renounced the left-wing policy which has been a real problem for sweden for many years, and that now, with sweden holding the presidency of the council, a good development is guaranteed. i have known the sweden democrats for many years as a party that makes good and fair politics, that is committed to its own country and its own culture. and so they also correspond to a trend that is dominating in more and more areas in europe here. i would like to mention hungary and the resounding election victory of prime minister orbán. i would like to address the developments we are seeing in italy with prime minister meloni and her partner matteo salvini. i'd like to discuss the situation in poland with a prime minister morawiecki. i would like to mention the situation in my home country, austria, where we as the freedom party are now ahead in all the polls, and thus europe is increasingly seeing the breakthrough of a policy which seeks to promote diversity in our continent in a positive way, which seeks to bring cultures together in friendship and on equal terms, and which seeks to turn away from a policy of mass migration, from a policy of social abuse, of asylum abuse, and in this respect to lead europe to a good future, because the diversity of cultures is the indispensable condition for our continent to be well, for this european community and the european union to be well, and that we do not have a great mixed situation where all cultures are losing out and people are increasingly turning away from europe.
president, mr prime minister, one of your priorities is to conclude a new agreement with the acp countries. however, a growing number of representatives from these countries are very concerned about this deal. in particular, because of the provisions on sexual and reproductive rights which can be interpreted as an obligation to legalize abortion. many acp countries are very concerned about the protection of unborn life. please give them the space to keep doing that. my appeal to you is: do not impose on them the secular morality that wants to end life before it is born. life is too precious for that. in fact, life is a gift from god. i also ask for your support for the newly appointed ambassador for religious freedom. in order to provide adequate support for this envoy and to provide adequate support staff, we must give him a solid and substantial budget.
president. - mr president, 20 years ago, game studios were trying to develop a game that was as fun and challenging as possible, so you bought this. but now they're trying to make the game as addictive as possible. innovation does not always lead to improvements for consumers. we see that in the gaming industry. because whereas i used to be able to save up and finally buy rollercoaster tycoon and play it endlessly, now the game studios are making a lot of money by making a game that's as addictive as possible. and the game makers are very, very good at it. right now, one in 20 boys in school has the hallmarks of a gaming addiction. and that's not really surprising, because these companies know exactly what psychological tricks they need to use to keep you playing for as long as possible and spending as much money as possible. so they came up with loot boxes, digital treasure chests that you can buy in the game without knowing what's inside. the contents can be very valuable, or not. because these loot boxes give you the same feeling as gambling, people can waste a lot of money on this and work these loot boxes addictive. other tricks for more profit are getting more chances to win if you pay or buy items in the game; in-game payment in a different currency so you don't really have any idea how much money you're spending; when you buy something, you have to sign up for a subscription that you're stuck with. or secretly collect your data and then resell it. for addictive substances or services like tobacco and gambling, we have strict rules. but we've been letting the games industry run its course for years, and young people and children are such an important target group. this cannot continue and that is why i am proud that the european parliament is today pushing for new rules and stronger protection for online games. and an investigation into a european ban on loot boxes. as far as i'm concerned, this is just the beginning. europe must also start fighting the addictive design of social media, and i will continue to fight for that. young people need to be able to be happy, safe and honest online without being manipulated, misled or addicted.
madam president, qatar and morocco’s bribery have tarnished the reputation of the european parliament. our credibility on matters of transparency, integrity and independence is being questioned, and rightly so. but this very dark thundercloud has one silver lining, and that is that this is the time for making real strides towards an open and trust-worthy european parliament. we need to put our money where our mouth is, fewer grey zones, more checks and balances. concretely, i’m talking about more checks on those representing third countries such as qatar and morocco. but this is broader. we need stricter rules on side jobs and side incomes of members of the european parliament. we need more accountability on the general expenditure allowance. and fourthly, commissioner, it’s high time for the commission’s proposal on an independent ethics body that makes sure that these rules are enforced. let today’s scandal be a final call for introspection, and let’s use this time not only for lists and for promises, but now for new rules that concretely bring true transparency and accountability.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate my colleague, isabel wiseler-lima, for this strong annual report on human rights. as human rights are universal, consistency is key. human rights cannot be sacrificed for eu interests like trade or migration. and, of course, parliament should never be silenced because of the own financial interests of some meps. if we do not clear the house, human rights are the first to suffer. human rights have been increasingly under pressure, in particular for women and girls. the huge repression in afghanistan and iran already results in the suffering of 55 million women and girls directly affected in their core rights. in afghanistan, the taliban have simply erased women and girls from public life and curtailed their mobility, access to schools, universities and jobs. and this human rights crisis adds to the humanitarian crisis, which affects women the most. in iran, the killing of jina mahsa amini and violent crackdown of protests, illustrate the regime’s longstanding and systemic suppression of women. young protesters are executed just because they call for freedom. but despite the huge fear of the people, they persist in the fight for their rights and they deserve all our support. and that brings me to the importance of accountability. we must bring the perpetrators to court and impose sanctions that really hurt. and let’s call a spade a spade: irgt is a terrorist organisation.
madam president, please. european industry is facing one of the most serious crises in its centuries of existence: empty production lines, companies considering closure and exit, declining competitiveness. this is the sad result of misguided sanctions, unrealistic green targets and industrial policies built on bureaucracy. let's just say that policy has failed. the situation has become untenable. the drive to cripple industry is putting the lives of some 30 million people at risk across europe. this is unacceptable and therefore calls for responsible and swift action rather than new ideological air-bastions. the first step must be the immediate lifting of sanctions against our companies. in addition, brussels should suspend proposals to increase the bureaucratic burden on businesses and provide them with urgent financial support. we cannot allow european industry to collapse. let us be courageous and take appropriate action in this matter.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, when he presented the green deal in this house back in 2019, vice-president timmermans said that the fundamental question before us was whether we would be masters of the momentous change ongoing in our industry or we would be subject to what others decide. through the green deal we are supposed to be masters, and the american inflation reduction act showed us that the green deal did not us masters. we became subjects to what others decide. the green deal was supposed to be the growth strategy and was supposed to support our business to become world leaders in clean technology. but it never delivered on that. it delivered the ‘fit for 55’ regulatory framework, which forces the european economy through a massive transformation. but it did not deliver the business case for that transformation. yesterday, finally, the green deal industrial plan was announced, a plan that finally considers how to ensure there is a business case for the transition in europe. we should not fear the inflation reduction act. it shows us simply that the americans incentivise this transformation and we regulate. and we need breathing space for our industry. we need deregulation. we need not additional burden. we have to reduce and to focus on what we want to achieve on 55 and not to add burden to the industry. that’s what industry want. not simply much more money. the end of this regulatory nightmare in this parliament.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in europe, at last, the word environment is joined by other words: industry, technology, international competition, work and skills. finally, industry is coming back to the fore, because it has become clear that the ambitious decarbonisation targets cannot be achieved without a coherent, effective and sustained industrial policy. if we want to aim for sustainable mobility, we have to make batteries here in europe, and making batteries means designing them here, means building them, means producing them and also means preparing that training of the personnel that is needed. if we want to put solar everywhere, we have to produce the panels here in europe, if we do not want to be dependent on other parts of the world or if we do not want to see new outsourcing of our companies. this gigantic conversion requires urgent private and public resources. private, if we don't want to create an industrial desert in europe, too, the risk is very real. we must have private resources which must be supported by the necessary investment and aid. and then we must also rely on public resources, because state aid is not enough, commissioner, otherwise we will have healthy and good businesses that will die because they were born unfortunately in the wrong country, the country that cannot help them because it does not have budgetary resources. we need the courage we had in 2020. a new plan such as the next generation eu. everything else is pretty useless and it's not much.
mr president, last year in sri lanka the economy collapsed, there was a sudden shortage of essential goods, there were power cuts. as a result, mass riots broke out. people were furious. and now for the interesting part: sri lanka had a near-perfect score of 98.1 on the esg e. esg stands for environmental and social governance. our climate islander frans timmermans is a big fan of this concept. but in sri lanka, we see where this leads. esg ensures that investments are no longer made on the basis of financial data such as profitability and risk. instead, the measure shall be: is it climate neutral enough? is it woke enough? ladies and gentlemen, esg has the potential to give our innovative power, our earning power, our smes - yes, even our democracy - the death knell. it could be the downfall of our economy. it would be incredibly stupid not to learn from sri lanka. so do not let esg become part of the new industrial strategy. less rules instead of more rules. that will boost our innovation and our business.
president. - i have heard the commissioner and many of my esteemed colleagues today say that there must be a response to the american inflation reduction act. i think that's fundamentally wrong. we don't have to answer. we need to strengthen our own position. in my own industry report of september last year, we in this parliament called for a genuine european green and strategic industrial policy. we called for more european cooperation to ensure that we have sufficient clean and affordable energy quickly, because that is what our companies need to be competitive. we need to work together more to invest heavily in strategic technology for our future economy, such as batteries, solar panels and computer chips: technology that we don't want to be dependent on others for. we also need to work better together to protect our knowledge and technology, so that we don't invest a lot of taxpayer money first and then find out that our promising companies have been taken over by chinese parties and the knowledge is disappearing from europe. mr president, when it comes to our future economy, our jobs, we should not be reacting to others, but we should be in control.
blue-card speech. – i hear a lot of, i would say, complaining that we speak a lot about the rise of extreme right movements. i would like to know from my colleague, are you basically saying that the extreme right is not at all a problem in europe? like, are you recognising that we have a serious issue with extreme right movements? what exactly are you recognising or not in this regard?
mr president, our democracy is under pressure. the core, the heart of europe, is under attack by the extremist ideology that we see not only in our member states but also right here in the european parliament. theories which are harmful, theories which are also spreading here in the european parliament. just a few months ago, i heard a colleague here talking about the overpopulation theory. that is the poison we are seeing here in this parliament. we have an example to set. we must be aware of that. we must continue to set an example by showing that we do not accept these delusions and conspiracy theories. we must stand up for the fundamental rights of our citizens. we must fight extremist thinking and right-wing extremism, including in this parliament. stop playing small. it's time to react. it's structural. we can no longer ignore it, because our values, our rights are under pressure from right-wing extremism.
mr president, commissioner, capitol hill, brasília, the reichsbürgers and forum voor democratie – a dangerous global far right is moving from their social media rabbit holes into the offline world, and they all promote the same harmful narratives based on disinformation, targeting women, targeting lgbti people, targeting people of colour, and trying to overthrow democratic institutions. the spread of this sort of disinformation and extremism online is organised by far right groups, spread by putin troll farms and then amplified by social media algorithms. in the current geopolitical context, the eu cannot afford to be naive. we need to unite against fascism, against putin, and against tech capitalism that threatens our safe, online public debate. to defend our democracy, the role of social media in the spread of disinformation is key. that’s why i call upon the commission to present strong rules on how platforms should handle disinformation, not just voluntary agreements, to make fact checks on content that goes viral on social media obligatory, and to ban polarising recommender algorithms.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the uber files confirmed what we already knew. uber has been able to roll out its business model by operating illegally, dodging labour law and employing aggressive lobby tactics. it was the plan all along to squeeze drivers for uber to become profitable. with this scandalous behaviour, uber has become a market leader in the platform economy, and paved the way for other companies to follow in their exploitative footsteps. working on the platform work directive, i have been able to witness first—hand how uber still manages to sway colleagues in this house. please stop buying the myths that uber is trying to sell you. workers can have flexibility while being employed. people with difficulty finding work deserve a real job with rights and fair wages, rather than a gig—work app that follows their every step, including the music they listen to. and freelancers will still be able to find clients through platforms. they will actually enjoy more protection from subordination and intrusive algorithms. when voting on this file, i count on your support for the deal reached in the empl committee on the platform work directive. we give platform workers access to social protection, tackle bogus self—employment, and ensure fairness and transparency when using algorithms in a workplace. breaking the rules is not innovation. this legislation will be a milestone for the future of work, and we cannot have uber riding this future again.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, commissioner, checking someone's pulse before checking his passport is not a crime – on the contrary. yet greek authorities made it one, cynically prosecuting 24 humanitarian aid workers for saving lives at sea. helping refugees to settle is not a crime. yet italian mayor lucano faces a sentence of 13 years behind bars for it. a greek registration law hinders ngos from doing their work. the new italian decree obstructs rescue activities by humanitarian organisations, and these governments fail to fulfill their national obligations themselves, but they sanction those who fill the gaps. commissioner, your silence leaves humanitarian workers out in the cold and encourages states to impose further restrictions. so i urge you: say out loud that this criminalisation violates eu law, enforce your guidelines on the facilitation directive and propose a reform to strip any ambiguity and, of course, force member states to rescue and assist people in distress or desperate need for help. we must protect those who protect others. we must protect the rule of law. we must protect humanity.
blue-card speech. – you just said that the turkish authorities do not cooperate with greece. we all know that this eu-turkey deal is not working at the moment because erdogan has not taken back any migrants since march 2020. yet the greek government declares asylum requests inadmissible if people have traveled from turkey into the eu – because of the reasoning that they can go back to turkey as a safe third country. in the asylum procedures directive, it's made clear that this cannot be applied. it cannot be held against an asylum seeker if the country does not take someone back. so why, then, if the greek authorities know very well that turkey doesn't take people back, are those people still not being examined on their merits?
mr president, we are here tonight to discuss the fundamental lies underlying this debate. the title of the debate is: on the criminalisation of humanitarian aid, including search and rescue operations. the suggestion made here is that migrants from africa are shipwrecked and should not be helped. but that is not the issue. many migrants deliberately board old boats, often without engines. they know that these boats would never, if ever, reach europe. what they do know is that they're gonna get picked up. they do not go to sea to be hauled off the coast until they know that the ngo smugglers' boats are within range to pick them up. both sides are abusing a law designed to help people in distress at sea. this is not aid, but organized human smuggling. for this purpose, these ngos are generously paid by donors and also by the european states. the rule of law, which is mentioned here very often, is also undermined in this way by all the subsidies to ngos which abuse this law to facilitate illegal migration. as far as i'm concerned, we're putting an end to this.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much for this important debate. today is 18 january. it’s the very beginning of the year but, according to iom, already we have seen 30 lives lost in the mediterranean. rescuing people is always both a legal and moral obligation. many are involved in saving lives at sea – navy and coast guards, but also fishing boats and merchant vessels who help people in need, and ngo vessels also play an important role. humanitarian assistance to save lives should never be criminalised. the commission will continue to follow closely practical and legislative developments in all member states to make sure they stick to european norms. let me finish now as i started, by saying that we need to do everything to prevent people from embarking on dangerous journeys in the first place by stepping up the fight against smugglers and working together with our partners along the migratory routes – those that are already preventing tens of thousands of departures every year, effectively saving lives. but that is not enough. we need to invest in more and broader legal pathways: migration for work and legal pathways for refugees through resettlement and also humanitarian admission. and what we need most of all – and i would like to thank those who stressed this in this debate – is an agreement on the pact. we need a true european legislation and a true european legislative framework for an orderly and humane migration and asylum system. i call on you all again to reach an agreement before the end of this mandate. i know we can do this.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the five motions for resolutions on the humanitarian consequences of the blockade of nagorno-karabakh (2023/2504 (rsp)) *. the following table is added: see minutes of the hearing.
president. - the situation in nagorno-karabakh is becoming more serious by the day. food and medicine shortages, power cuts, rationing of food, all because of the continuing blockade of the laçın corridor by so-called environmentalists. the fact that azerbaijan is behind this is obvious. recently, azerbaijan has carried out attacks on the sovereign territory of armenia. this has to stop. now that it is clear that russia is not maintaining the 2020 ceiling, we must take our responsibility by sending more european observers to the area, putting more pressure on the government in baku and actively pushing for de-escalation and the start of peace talks, with clear guarantees for the rights and security of the armenian population in nagorno-karabakh. neither the caucasus nor the eu benefits from new arms race in the region.
author. – mr president, it’s obvious: democracy is under attack worldwide. and let us begin with condoning the storming of the democratic institutions in brazil, because that is awful and that is really bad for our democracy worldwide. what i see here is a pattern. the us capitol, the prevented attack of the german bundestag and now brazil. this is a pattern; this is a dangerous trend. and what i also see here is that it’s the anti-democratic trump playbook to undermine our democratic values. that’s what is happening here. we need to prevent that these damaging strategies are basically implemented here in europe. by protecting other democracies, we are protecting ourselves. and this is why we need to enforce strong legislation. take, for example, the digital services act. but we also need to develop new legislation to make sure that fascism, extremism cannot spread around and that we prevent radicalisation. it is not the question if it happens here in europe. but i believe that nowadays it’s the question when will it happen in europe? and that’s a very confronting question. so, we should support lula and his government and the democratic institutions in brazil. we need to support the investigation that’s now going on in brazil. and we need to cooperate with our democratic allies in the world to make sure this will not happen to other democracies any more.
author. – madam president, commissioner, for the first time in 25 years, the human rights situation in morocco is on the parliament’s agenda. omar radi and many other journalists critical of the regime face smear campaigns, arbitrary detention and are convicted in dodgy trials. peaceful hirak al—rif protesters and diaspora activists are systematically harassed and intimidated. sakharov prize finalist nasser zefzafi is still in prison. with intimidation, blackmail, instrumentalisation of migrants and even bribery of meps, rabat tries to silence critics and cover up the domestic human rights situation – successfully, until now. let this be a moment of reflection, not only for this parliament, but also for the commission and the member states to critically assess their priorities within their relationship with morocco. human rights are universal. if we want to be credible, we cannot be silenced by regimes just because we prioritise our own interests.
president, commissioner, with the new chinese silk road, china has been making countries dependent on it for years and strengthening its position in the world. it's going to be very difficult to protect our way of life in a world dominated by china. and that while we have a responsibility for the world of our children, our economy of the future, our jobs of the future. in short, a european response is urgently needed. and the global gateway plans that have been presented have also been presented as the european answer to the new silk road. the european commission is showing its willingness to think strategically, with projects and partnerships in the field of energy, raw materials and digital infrastructure. these are indeed examples of how we can act strategically with the member states, with european budgets, with private investment elsewhere in the world. it is also an alternative based on european values for those countries which are trapped in chinese stranglehold loans. but where we are going to think strategically elsewhere in the world, european countries themselves are often far too naive about the growing chinese influence in europe itself. two thirds of the container terminal capacity in the port of rotterdam is owned by companies from china and hong kong. if it is up to china, the port will no longer be the gateway to europe, but the terminus of the new chinese silk road. 160 000 dutch households are currently receiving electricity from solar parks in chinese hands. we see chinese parties in our 5g networks, we see chinese scanners in our ports, in airports maybe. we see chinese cameras in our cities, chinese electric buses in our regions, and chinese companies taking over promising european chip start-ups. china is strengthening its position in europe before our very eyes, and that must stop. so the real answer to china's increasingly dominant position is not just to invest elsewhere in the world, in our neighbors, but more control of our own back door.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, dear colleagues, in a year, european elections will determine the future of europe. and what are the biggest concerns of our voters? well, we know it. certainly, the high cost of living; the war in ukraine. but i assure you that also migration will be on the top of their minds. we see this as a concern of many citizens, but i do not see the urgency to deliver. colleagues, it’s time to wake up. this mismatch between what we need to do and what is being achieved is dangerous. first, we need real progress on the migration and asylum pact. responsibility and solidarity must go hand in hand. a third element to come to an agreement is missing, however, and that is trust. trust between member states. and here lies also a role for the commission. the commission has to step up to break the cycle of mistrust existing between member states by enforcing also current rules towards the new package. dublin rules do not seem to exist now, and because of it, trust has been eroding from the moment commission has made its proposals. our focus should be on concrete results for our citizens to provide immediate relief to our external borders. we must do everything in our power to strike new agreements with third countries to counter irregular migration and increase returns, including by using our trade and visa policy as a leverage. this should be a top priority for the commission. colleagues, when faced with a pandemic, europe delivered. when faced with war, we act quickly together. migration cannot be the cinderella of eu achievements this mandate. instead of rhetoric and fairy tales, we need real focus and concrete delivery. it’s time for action.
mr president, we are generously hosting refugees from ukraine, and rightly so. but the eu seems to forget that a refugee is a refugee, no matter the country of origin. and most asylum seekers in europe, they come from syria, afghanistan, iraq, turkey. those refugees are pushed back at europe’s borders or face huge obstacles in asking for asylum and getting a proper reception. and what is the eu answer to these protection gaps? more walls, more drones, more returns, more funding to libyan detention centres and to autocratic regimes like egypt, turkey and morocco; deterrents and shifting responsibility instead of respecting the rights of all refugees. but there is no space for selective morality. so i urge the commission and the council: care for our credibility, care for our values.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear commissioner – there is no one from the council – since our last resolution on afghanistan, both the human rights and the humanitarian situation have dramatically worsened by new radical measures taken by the taliban against women and girls. girls from the age of 12 were already banned from schools, deprived of their future, their dreams and their ambitions. but women have now been banned from universities. women and girls are systematically erased from public life, and female aid workers are banned as well, which affects 28 million people in desperate need of aid. especially because women are only allowed to receive aid from female workers, this ban will push people over the cliff. let us not be misled, this is not just a way to pressure the west into negotiations, this is simply how the taliban view society and the role of women. ‘i feel like i am in prison, treated like an animal that has no goal. this is not a life. i am dead and yet alive’, says a young female aid worker. commissioner, i agree with you, we must prioritise the well-being and the rights of afghan women, children and men left behind in this horror and we can do so much more. step-up the funding of aid organisations, they cannot resolve all the humanitarian aid at the moment. use diplomacy to convince partner countries to join the sanctions and isolate the taliban internationally, and offer sustainable protection to afghan women and girls who are on our territories. the eu asylum agency has concluded that they are entitled to asylum, but many of them are still in a legal limbo and suffer from uncertainty. commission, follow up this instruction from our agency and enforce their right to protection. words of solidarity and grief mean nothing without concrete support.
madam president, the situation for women in afghanistan is very alarming, more than that. what is happening in afghanistan right now is gender apartheid. that’s what it is. it’s not gender segregation, it’s gender apartheid. we have a duty as the international community to first understand that the taliban will not restore the situation of women and girls. they will not do it. they will keep doing this, undermining women’s rights in afghanistan. the international community should not be naive. we should offer these women and girls in afghanistan a way out. that’s why i’m asking, mr borrell, for the eu to introduce special visas for afghan women and girls. that’s their way out to make sure that they have a safe life in the european union and that they can continue their lives and can choose their own future. let me be clear, we knew that this would happen. we were waiting to see what would happen, and so many people were already warning for this. so let’s take our responsibility now. the taliban has shown that they don’t know anything about women’s rights. they don’t respect women’s rights. and they will never do so!
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, dear commissioner lenarčič, dear colleagues, last week, southern türkiye and northern syria were rocked several times by very strong earthquakes, causing massive devastation of an unprecedented magnitude. even now, a week later, it’s difficult to realise the scale of this disaster and human suffering. last year, i got to know the beautiful cities of gaziantep and urfa. very welcoming and energetic people who are working hard, not only for themselves, but also for the many syrian refugees. and now so much that they worked for has literally collapsed. it’s horrible. people sleep in parks or in tents, still in shock. all their future dreams are gone at once. in these difficult times, europe must stand up and lend a helping hand. fortunately, the eu – and i would like also to express my gratitude to commissioner lenarčič – and also the member states have responded quickly with emergency aid, which i applaud. but we know that more is needed. we must show our solidarity. more humanitarian aid is now needed and also for the years to come to offer perspective to the people in the affected areas. we demand full access to northern syria immediately. and also we call upon the turkish authorities that their actions are just and lawful. blocking twitter is not a solution. let’s make it clear why mustafa kemal’s choice for europe was the right one by being there for türkiye at its darkest hour.
madam president, let me first start by congratulating the rapporteurs, because i know it wasn’t that easy and there were very tough negotiations. so from this place, ms gardiazabal rubial, congratulations, mr mureşan and mr pîslaru. it’s very important to see people coming from political groups and really working hard to make a piece of legislation that really could get us to the next step. because repowereu is not only our response to the energy crisis, but also creates a clear framework to enable clean tech, build our needed infrastructure and improve interconnectivity. it is built on strong financing and the direction is clear towards climate neutrality and improved autonomy – a shift away from russian gas towards renewables. it is important that we continue on our path, because we are on the right path. deviation will only cause delays and will not help us decrease prices. we need to make energy clean and affordable. repowereu is an essential milestone for our green transition. it will help us shape the future of our energy system and create opportunities for greening our industry, making it more competitive.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the qatar and the morocco scandal has shocked our societies and shaken the confidence of citizens in the democratic institute of the eu. if directly elected politicians appear not to be resistant to external attempts to buy their votes, buy their influence and their political activities, our credibility is heavily under attack, because it not only ruins the reputation of the meps concerned or that of every single member among us, people's trust in the eu as a whole, as you rightly said, may be affected as well, unless we are determined to learn from these scandals and to resolve all weak spots in our systems. transparency and public oversight are imperative for a functioning democracy. we welcome the first steps proposed by the president, but we need additional, substantial measures. a reform of the transparency register, which also discloses lobbying activities, including their foreign funding. stronger obligations for members to declare their assets and to register every side job, gifts and travels paid by external actors. introduce much stronger protection for staff members and apas, so that they can safely share their observations of unlawful behaviour. establish an impartial ethics body fully competent to investigate allegations of corruption in all eu institutions and agencies. but the rules alone will not solve it. compliance with them must be much better monitored and enforced. an oversight mechanism where complaints can be filed should not only be composed by ourselves. advice from external experts is key to prevent favouritism and to give oversight more credibility. sanctions for non-compliance must be determined enough to enforce the norms. integrity cannot be taken for granted, and even the suspicion of non-integrity is toxic for an effectively functioning democracy. it is first and foremost for this democracy that we need to restore the trust and to subject ourselves to these rules, oversight and accountability.
mr. chairman, who remembers the stanley car brand? you may know it from the popular children's movie cars as stanley steamer. if not, i would say: ask your children. stanley made a very successful steam-powered car in the late 1800s. that was a very reliable technology at the time, especially compared to the emerging internal combustion engine. at one point, stanley made more cars than any other american car company. the parallels with today are truly amazing. to counter the rise of the internal combustion engine, stanley was among the first to start a campaign of fear, uncertainty and doubt. the internal combustion engine was said to be unreliable and could explode. how do we know that? the campaign of slander against this regulation and against electric cars, also in this parliament. in 1924, stanley closed its doors for good because it was no match for the competition of the internal combustion engine. even now we know that it will be very difficult for the internal combustion engine to remain competitive. the electric car is already cheaper to use and the purchase price continues to fall. competition and development outside europe are running high. if we want to help the automotive sector in europe to be future-proof and to remain competitive, we must adopt this regulation today. this will bring us closer to our climate goals, improve air quality and, above all, prevent european stanley. (the president declared the motion for a resolution adopted)
respond to a 'blue card' reaction. look, i'm trying to find arguments here. the climate argument is more than clear because it has sufficient urgency to address this problem. i am trying to argue for other aspects from an economic point of view. when we see what is happening in america now with support for the electric car, when i see how many asian brands are bringing technology to europe that is miles ahead of many of our own european brands, i worry whether we are fast enough to respond and whether we have any chance of keeping this sector in europe. it is possible to do so by creating very clear frameworks. we have to make those frames today.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at first glance, a ban on the sale of new combustion engines by 2035 is a good thing. because the co2 emissions from our cars are not only responsible for global warming, but also poison the health of millions of people through air pollution. however, it is irresponsible to pursue these ambitious and necessary objectives without any planning, especially if it is a question of focusing on a 100% electric car fleet. firstly, these electric cars are very expensive, so people will prefer to buy second-hand, thermal cars rather than new electric cars. secondly, if it is true that electric cars pollute less, what about the manufacturing process? lithium is extracted at the cost of considerable environmental pollution. moreover, lithium, cobalt and rare earths are not currently mined in europe, making us structurally dependent on other continents for supply. in addition, in the absence of protectionism, chinese electric vehicles are entering our market: today they account for 5% of the market, but according to estimates, 20% in two years' time, with the first consequence for our automobile industry being the closure of factories employing more than 13 million europeans. finally, more electric cars means more electricity needs. however, since the liberalisation of the energy sector, electricity production has stagnated in europe, and we are even experiencing the first power cuts this winter. so how many new nuclear or coal-fired power stations will it take to eventually run a european car fleet of more than 280 million electric cars? none of this is serious. moving towards less polluting mobility? of course you are! but by anticipating needs and including all this in a genuine public transport policy.
i have to say, madam president, the last investment in combustion engines in cars is really good for the climate, and it is a very necessary decision if we in the eu are to reach our climate goals and comply with the paris climate agreement. but the epp is against the law because they fear we will lose jobs in the car industry. i'm for the law. because if we don't pass it, we're going to lose jobs in the auto industry. the green transition is the way forward not only for the climate, but also for growth and jobs. so the future is in the green transition. there is no point in trying to hold on to a polluting old-fashioned technology. because with this phase-out date, we're actually sending a clear signal to the industry: now we're starting a new competition, who can produce the best zero-emission car? it creates new opportunities for businesses in the eu, but also for the climate, and it creates lots of new green jobs. the epp is now in the fight for the future. we need this legislation for the climate, but also to secure jobs in the future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is perfectly acceptable to aim at reducing co2 emissions in the transport sector, but such a plan must have realistic objectives and not result in increased costs for citizens and businesses. the current solution under vote is a substantial push towards the electrical option alone, not a market choice but a legislator's imposition and a violation of the principle of technological neutrality. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. there is still neither the infrastructure nor the technology to bring about such a revolution in the transport sector. we only risk giving our international competitors who own raw materials and patents a further advantage. we also have to weigh up the environmental costs that we will face, from extracting the raw materials to disposing of the batteries at the end of their life. we are moving from dependence on russian methane gas to dependence on china for rare earths, and as always, unfortunately, it will be the less well-off and weaker classes who will pay the real price for this choice with increasingly expensive vehicles.
president, 'every worker has his own car!' that is a very good statement by joop den uyl, mr timmermans. from the time when the social democrats were still standing up for the people. from a time when the established parties were still ahead of the curve. those days are over. and the ideal of a car for everyone is in danger of disappearing. the vvd is now even in charge of the eu's plan to allow only electric cars from 2035. they will always have a high purchase price because of their expensive batteries. and that's going to make it impossible for hardworking people on low incomes to buy a car. that will deprive millions of dutch people of their freedom. and let me be clear. that is not an unfortunate consequence of the policy. no, that's the policy. this eu policy will make the netherlands one big city. full of prefabricated housing, full of migrants and full of wind turbines. without farmers, without private cars and without freedom. that's the way it goes. i want to preserve our beautiful netherlands. i want to preserve our freedom. and that is why, mr timmermans, i will continue to oppose this agenda.
president. - one in three women in the european union is a victim of gender-based violence. in the netherlands, a woman is murdered every eight days simply because she is a woman. the european council has been waiting for six long years to ratify the istanbul treaty. the council also seems not to be ready for the directive on gender-based violence. all the excuses from our governments for not pursuing this issue send us women only one message. are we safe at home? not important to you. can we walk down the street without our keys in our knuckles? it's not important to you. or should we warn each other about that one colleague on the shop floor? it's not important to you. what about all the femicide victims? you're turning a blind eye to that, too. actions speak louder than words. ratify the istanbul convention and work towards a strong directive against gender-based violence. (the president declared the motion for a resolution adopted)
blue-card reply. – first of all, i never said there was an increase in violence, but there was violence all over the place. what the fact that the istanbul convention is not ratified by these other member states says is that they don’t care. and also, i have said that we need also on top of that, a directive against violence against women. we need to work on every level that we can to ensure that women can be safe in our streets, at home and at work. as long as governments refuse to say even that they want to work on that, that they want to ratify something as crucial for us women as the istanbul convention, we cannot say that we are doing everything we can to reduce violence.
president, ladies and gentlemen, slavery sounds like something from the distant past, but it is very much alive. i'm talking about modern slavery called prostitution. i find it incomprehensible that countries have come to regard this as a normal profession. the european union must not be left behind. the member states' criminalisation of prostitution visits in the swedish model could certainly help. unfortunately, the rapporteurs do not or hardly ever touch on this subject. i think that's a missed opportunity. they expect a lot from the union's accession to the istanbul convention. i have my doubts about that, especially since the convention contains provisions which are openly questionable, for example on the division of roles between men and women and on gender. i therefore propose that we focus our efforts on tackling the real abuses. that is more effective than imposing a treaty on countries which have legitimate objections of principle.
mr president, i am outraged by this debate. i'm really surprised. the whole debate is about whether the istanbul convention is the right instrument and whether the european union can impose this on the member states. then i think to myself: why are you sitting here? why are you a member of the european union? do we understand what our task is? our job as legislators is to protect the rights of citizens and in this case to stand up for women, for victims. and all the pathetic stuff all the time in this debate! you know what's really sad? all those women who are victims, children who lose their mothers to violence. that's really pathetic. that is why we must ensure that the european union accedes to this convention and ratifies it as soon as possible. because we have a responsibility to protect a new generation of women and girls in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. do we find that normal? no, that's not normal. so stop all this fuss about whether this is the right instrument. yes, this is the right instrument. this is our job. this is the work we have to do in europe: the european union is committed to protecting the fundamental rights of women and girls.
the russian aggression has woken us up. a credible enlargement policy is not only key for our neighbouring citizens, but also for protecting our security and european values. but as my colleagues already said, granting the candidate status is only one step. it needs to be followed by a more active engagement – increased economic cooperation and support to countries with the necessary reforms. but support must go hand in hand with strict conditions on the rule of law, democracy, fundamental rights and anti-corruption measures. and for bosnia, this requires that we strongly denounce the ethno-nationalistic rhetoric in support of putin and secessionist plans. are you ready to be very clear towards mr dodik and to keep the eu funding frozen? and in which way do you pressure the new government to swiftly implement the key priorities for accession? a credible enlargement process also requires that eu member states do not abuse their vetoes, also not in interim decisions during the enlargement process. and bulgaria should get this message from the council and commission for the further process. are you ready to convey this message? you just said i was very clear to the council that they should not and that they should finally take positive decisions. but it also regards, of course, bulgaria who put high demands and used the veto towards north macedonia. are you ready to convey this message? and how will you prevent further hurdles and requirements that are not part of the accession process?
it’s good to hear that you keep the pressure on bulgaria. i think it’s important to protect north macedonia. of course, what has been agreed should be implemented, but that they can be safeguarded, that the eu responds in a credible and consistent way afterwards. now, one question you did not answer yet, and that’s about what’s happening in the republika srpska – mr dodik. you talk about the hopeful new government, but what is happening there is still a huge threat of secession, of foreign influence from russia, the clear and blatant support and honouring of mr putin. that should be very clearly denounced because it’s really a threat for the ethnic division, but also, of course, for the stability and getting closer to the eu. so what do you do against mr dodik and these threats? and are you ready to indeed keep the money suspended to 600 billion that you suspended because of the secessionist plans?
mr president, today’s context is frustrating, embarrassing even. but i’m glad that we’re finally working on a number of reforms to do with transparency and accountability in this house. self-regulation on ethics in the parliament has failed, and it’s time for tighter controls on lobbyists, stricter rules against influence of dubious regimes and more financial transparency. all of this is long overdue and i hope we can move on all of this quickly. but without the enforcement of new rules we will be back at square one. and so i find it very difficult to take our colleagues from the epp and ecr seriously when they say we need to draw lessons from qatar- or moroccogate. why? because the very solution to our problem of self-policing and enforcement is being obstructed under the guise of the freedom of mandate and the rule of law. and under that guise, they voted against proposals on this independent ethics body. to be clear, that’s a body that would enforce ethical rules, ensure more consistency between the european institutions, investigate things like side jobs and side incomes, check conflicts of interests, including of commissioners, verify financial declarations, and be able to act against revolving doors. apart from a handful of courageous members in the epp, the epp said no to those kinds of powers. and that’s a problem. and it's a problem, too, because of the promises of our president of the european commission, who proposed that there would be an ethics body. and we’re still waiting on that proposals four years into the mandate. and that’s important because problems go beyond the european parliament. we all know former commissioner neelie kroes actively lobbied for uber despite a cooling—off period that prohibited that. former commissioner oettinger has 14, was it 15, side jobs as a lobbyist in a clear example of revolving doors. and the council continues to allow sponsorships by companies of their presidencies despite running the risk of conflicts of interest. what’s at stake here is trust in democracy and in institutions, in public institutions. we have to make sure that political processes are not captured by private interests. i really hope we can expect the commission proposal soon now, because the time for action is now.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, president of the commission, high representative, colleagues, one year ago we lived in a different world. and today we see ukrainian families torn apart because of russia’s war of aggression. tens of thousands of people have died and i would like to extend my condolences to their loved ones. we all remember the images from bucha – a european union keyring attached to a lifeless hand. dear colleagues, ukraine’s hopes are our objectives. one year on, we see nato strengthened. ukraine is firmly in the centre of our european family, and we have to continue to provide massive support to ukraine, also with more military materials, without taboos. dear colleagues, on this sad anniversary, we need to show our determination. we need to be united in this house – also a reaction to mr weber on behalf of the epp. our voice needs to be united, especially today, a year after this huge tragedy – the start of the war in ukraine. dear colleagues, let us expand the eu sanctions list to 6 000 russian individuals. let us hold russia accountable through the tribunal for the crime of aggression in the hague. and let us use the confiscated russian funds to start rebuilding ukraine as soon as possible. slava ukraini!
madam president, there are two thoughts i would like to share today in the context of the green deal industrial plan. the first one: panic is a bad adviser. it is true that the united states presented a huge package – the inflation reduction act – which will be very good for their green industry. but some say that the inflation reduction act could be seen as a reaction to our european green deal or to our carbon border adjustment mechanism. we should not panic. we have many instruments in place to support our industry. instead of panic, we should use our existing instruments effectively and targeted. and make no mistake here: industrial policy is green deal policy. secondly, we cannot build competitiveness on subsidies: giving state aid or eu subsidies to a company that is not competitive might be a quick fix, but is no long-term solution. to make sure the eu industry is resilient and competitive, it must decarbonise as soon as possible. the race to decarbonise ... (the speaker was interrupted)
mr president, there are two thoughts i would like to share today in the context of the green deal industrial plan. the first one: panic is a bad adviser. it is true that the united states presented a huge package – the inflation reduction act – which will be very good for their green industry. but some could say that the inflation reduction act is a reaction to our european green deal or to our carbon border adjustment mechanism. so we should not panic. we have many instruments in place to support our industry. instead of panic, we should use our existing instruments effectively and targeted. and make no mistake here: industrial policy is green deal policy. secondly, we cannot build competitiveness on subsidies: giving state aid or eu subsidies to a company that is not competitive might be a quick fix, but is no long-term solution. to make sure the eu industry is resilient and competitive, it must decarbonise as soon as possible. the race to decarbonisation will determine the competitiveness of our industry. so, madam commissioner, no panic. we are on the right track. but let us seize the moment and accelerate – for our industry, for our competitiveness.
the transition must be clear, green and above all fair. it is important that european citizens keep their homes warm. unfortunately, many citizens can barely pay their energy bills or sleep in the cold. the transition must be fair and inclusive. the industrial sector has a very important role to play in this. we must help the industrial sector to make the transition in a sustainable and innovative way. we already have the knowledge and the resources to do so. the industry must not collapse, but change with it. we must ensure that the 96.5 million europeans in the eu are not at risk of falling into poverty, for example because of high energy bills. we can make good use of our trade agreements for this. let's make sure that our partner countries meet our standards through trade agreements, and let's make sure that trade agreements include sustainable development chapters so that the whole world can join this crucial transition and ultimately become climate neutral.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, council commissioner. the eu council conclusions are just another chapter of the dystopian fortress europe playbook. deterring arrivals, ramping up border surveillance and shifting our responsibility to third countries. this will not lead to solutions; it will lead to more deaths, more human rights violations and more suffering. that’s not leadership; this is panic and it is campaigning mode. the eu was founded upon taking down the fences that separate us, enhancing freedom and fundamental rights protection. are we going to fund the destruction of these achievements? for many eu leaders, migration policy is equal to keeping people out at all costs, but instead of erecting fences, we must build solidarity. instead of pushing back, we must strengthen our common asylum system and share the responsibilities fairly. instead of concluding shady deals, we must support third countries that all together host the vast majority of the refugees worldwide and offer safe paths to protection. as we are entering the crunch time to conclude the pact, i urge the council to focus on what is really at stake and to work towards real and evidence-based solutions. simple frames and rhetoric may produce some electoral gains in the short term for right—wing parties, but they destroy the societal support for a common responsibility for refugees. what we need is true solidarity, and that requires true leadership.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'combined product' in the definition of the term 'combined product'. a strategy is therefore needed to ensure that access to these raw materials is properly regulated. this is important because there will be more demand than supply. companies want to go green, but often have limited access to critical raw materials. we must therefore be bold in setting priorities. we cannot expect help from the invisible hand, since there is no functioning market yet. it's up to us to decide who gets access to what and when. we must also use the materials we already have more efficiently and for longer periods of time. furthermore, the consent of local communities to extraction is an absolute prerequisite and must be carried out to the highest standards. so let's get this straight. the withdrawal from fossil fuels must not lead to another dependency. the debate on this will be a crucial step in achieving our digital and climate ambitions.
president, ladies and gentlemen, we must move much faster towards 100% renewable energy and electric cars. for the climate, of course, but also to reduce our dependence on rogue states like russia. but to produce those solar panels, wind turbines and batteries, we need critical raw materials, and we don't have them or we have them to a limited extent in europe. we must absolutely avoid a new dependence on authoritarian regimes like china. we therefore need to be much more efficient and better at handling our raw materials, for example by making sure that our products last much longer and by reusing and recycling our batteries and appliances 100%. this is how we keep those resources here in europe and also create a lot of new jobs in the circular economy. a new raw materials rush or a new trade policy in that direction is not the answer. - no, it's the opposite. circularity is the future of our economy, but also of our autonomy.
mr president, if i want to renovate my house, i first look at the materials i need. whether it's for sale and affordable. and what the risks are. i'll just have to cut the knot. the eu is doing it backwards. first, a grand plan is put into effect. only then will the feasibility, affordability and risk be considered. until 2010, eu countries produced more gas than russia exported. but all reliable energy sources have since been replaced by unreliable renewable energy sources. this has created the current energy crisis and made us completely dependent on russian gas. and now we have to electrify the entire fleet by 2035. the establishment parties voted well. we're becoming even more dependent on china for raw materials. and now we're going to look at how we can find an alternative to that. that's the horse behind the cart. i am in favour of strategic autonomy and i think it is right to go along with it. but next time, let's get the feasibility and risks straight. the people back home expect us to prevent problems, not to solve problems that they themselves have created.
president, ladies and gentlemen, we have a responsibility to build a clean energy system and to pass on our world to our children. but we also have a responsibility for the raw materials we need to make that transition, the raw materials for our wind turbines, solar panels and batteries. europe has left that to other parts of the world for years. 98% of the rare earth metals come from china, 69% of the world's lithium supply from congo. not only have we become far too dependent on it, the honest truth is that we have also saddled other countries with the environmental impact of mining our resources. and that's while we can also mine critical earth metals in europe. we must be prepared to mine and refine our own. the left in this parliament is all too eager to accelerate the pace of sustainability, but at the same time it is putting a brake on europe's mining of the raw materials we so desperately need. that's not my idea of taking responsibility. let us work together in europe to get european mines up and running as quickly as possible. we are not only taking responsibility for the raw materials we need, but also for our strategic position in the world.
i am very surprised, mr president, at times to hear a debate on this subject, as if we had not already been through an energy crisis or were still in it, as if we did not want to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels. but what does this file do now? because of what we have agreed here, and a lot of political parties are doing that, we're thinking hard about what's best to do now in terms of reducing that oil dependency and improving energy efficiency in the built environment, we've come up with a plan that will make sure that we're going to a) go green, b) lower the bill, and c) also create a lot of jobs, and about 160,000 jobs are projected. so i think everybody's benefiting from it. and i really don't understand the resistance to this. and when it comes to compliance, it is mainly up to the member states and not so much to the citizen. but i can see it. the parties calling for a vote against this today want you to be left out in the cold during the next crisis, to face a huge energy bill, so that they can point the finger and blame europe.
mr president, the renovation and insulation of the built environment is essential. a very important task, because 40 percent of our energy consumption comes from that built environment, so we really have a task for future generations there. but the question we have to ask ourselves here in parliament is whether the proposed regulation is also suitable for achieving these objectives. and does it work in our cities? does it work in our villages? and it works for our households? and the answer to that question for the regulations that are being proposed is simply no. this proposal will be a disaster in execution. the commission has taken the place of the local councillors and is writing down how many parking spaces there should be for cars, for bicycles. this parliament also wants to add rules on acoustics. that is far too much detail for something that should work across the european union. and it is also far too expensive for a country like the netherlands to introduce it in this way. this costs more than eur 1 billion in the netherlands, which is just bureaucracy, without any eur 1 going to the actual renovation of houses. in short, back to the drawing board. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
before giving the floor to our next speaker, i would like to remind you that the blue-card system should enable a lively debate, but the game is ’30 seconds each’ and no longer.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this week we are voting on 'fit for 55', but the package now before us is not fit for purpose at all. transitions take time. for a truly sustainable policy, therefore, the objectives must be realistic, and unfortunately they are not in the present context. i have called for greater flexibility and a greater commitment to cost efficiency. there has been a little more flexibility between the effort sharing regulation and the ets, but in my view this is far from enough. in the meantime, everything is getting more and more expensive and our competitiveness is seriously affected, resulting in an increasingly loud call for further relaxation of state aid rules to compensate. that cannot be the solution, especially when we see that the willingness to help sectors varies greatly from one member state to another and that the relaxation of state aid rules will therefore severely undermine the level playing field within the eu. mr president, let us realize in time that our competitiveness is of strategic importance. the environment is not going to be improved by moving production abroad. it is also unwise to become even more dependent on imports. let us therefore ensure that made in europe remains affordable.
mr. president, if you brush your teeth with a smart toothbrush, that data is not yours, it's the toothbrush manufacturer's. if you want to get your electric car fixed, you have to go to your brand's garage, because they can't get into your car's computer. and your robot vacuum cleaner spends all day collecting data about your house, which you're not allowed to see. it's pure data starvation under the guise of innovation. this is the world upside down, of course. the data you produce must be yours. well, this law is fortunately a first step towards that, and i'm glad that there are no back routes for companies to collect even more personal data. personal data has no place in a data market. let's look at data from companies, like in energy use or manufacturing processes. and we can learn from this collectively to make processes more sustainable and to find solutions to the climate crisis faster. let's make that data freely available. data can bring us a lot, but individuals should be able to decide what they want to share, regardless of what device they buy.
madam president, dear president nausėda, you are very welcome to our house. you refer to summer 2021, when lukashenko brutally instrumentalised migrants by sending them to your border. the eu stood behind your country as it was an attack on the eu and also an attack on our values. but the only right response is a value-based one. the court of justice last summer was crystal clear: lithuania’s legislation allowing for pushbacks, automatic detention and denial of the right to asylum is illegal under eu law. despite this, your government approved a bill further legalising these illegal policies. and we hear your government justify these violations under the misguided arguments of fighting instrumentalisation. but what you are doing is fighting innocent victims in need of protection. so i urge you to stop these pushbacks and arbitrary detentions, and to adjust the legislation in line with the court of justice ruling. don’t turn away refugees at the border, but turn away from unlawful policies. restore the rule of law at the eu’s borders. defend eu values and we will stand with you!
madam president, so i think many of us would agree still that brexit was a strategic, political and economic mistake. it was expected to have a negative impact on our trade, on our companies, on our jobs and on our people. but we need to move forward. and therefore the windsor framework will give now economic security for a lot of people who were waiting for this security. so i would like to applaud also the european commission for doing so much and putting so much effort in it, because we need to make sure that we have effective trade and economic relationships now with the uk. we need to keep working together to make sure that we can face the new geopolitical challenges in the world. and we also need to make sure that we stick to the rules. and this is exactly why we need a framework, this is exactly why we need an agreement. i am pretty sure that we can work on sustainable trade relations, that we can work on the creation of more jobs – green, fair, responsible. but we need to make sure that we stick to the rules and that we will keep having these dialogues to make sure that we can do this together effectively with the uk.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, first and foremost, allow me to express my gratitude for the support you express for the windsor framework, for all the kind words to the teams and to myself. i cannot underscore how important it was to feel the support of this house, to be absolutely clear that we have unified european support, of all the institutions, the member states, the pursuit of the best possible solution in the negotiations with the uk, and to be able to contact you, to be in touch with you and also to share with you the negative and positive news, because we had them quite a lot over the last two years. i think that today we are all referring to a very important achievement, represented in the windsor framework. but before i get to that, i would just like to respond to one of the first interventions we heard today, from mr jahr and ms hübner, because it concerns our citizens and i know their rights are important to you. i would like to assure you that they are very, very important for us as well. to make it clear: if it comes to the issue of pre-settled to settled status, it was rightly pointed out that the uk high court has ruled that this formality was unlawful. and the commission, as you know, has joined these proceedings next to the uk independent monitoring authority. the good news is that the uk home office will not appeal this decision and will implement the ruling, as ms hübner just said. and i think this is the good news, but we know that there are still some issues which need our vigilant approach. they will have it, and i can assure you that, for us, the rights of citizens will always remain a priority. several honourable members have been saying that this new way forward in the frame of the new windsor framework will allow us to open a new chapter in our eu-uk relationship and that this would be a relationship which will be based on mutual trust. this was expressed by ms reintke and ms loiseau. i believe that this relationship will be driven by cooperation, which is rightfully so important for two such important neighbours, partners, allies and trade partners as well. and i think that through this common approach and through that new way of resolving the issues, we are creating new opportunities and, i hope, a prosperous future also for northern ireland, because we’ve been working very hard on how we can even improve and make stronger the involvement of the northern ireland stakeholders in the dealings of the protocol. i think that from the last year of getting familiar with the day—to—day issues, understanding better the demands, the problems, the issues which need to be solved, this has been very helpful for the last, very important chapters of these negotiations. i believe that through close cooperation with the uk government, we found the right responses to these issues. and i believe that this new approach, the joint solution and this close cooperation, will also guide us when we discuss new areas for future cooperation. mr kelly, mr bourgeois, mr lange, ms covassi just highlighted some of the areas where close allies and good neighbours should go, and we would of course explore all of them. i would like to thank ms cavazzini for highlighting the importance of the windsor framework, but also for underscoring the importance of the single market and the fact that what we did was to look for new modern technology for data—sharing, for the possibility of remote checks, to really look for out—of—the—box solutions which would guarantee, on the one hand, the integrity of the single market and, on the other, would do it in an efficient way. i believe that we have achieved that. to conclude, once again, i would like to thank all the colleagues in the house for their close cooperation, for their support. i would like to thank mr pereira for his report. of course, our relationship with the united kingdom is massive, so i am sure there will be a lot of issues to talk about. there will be a lot of discussions about the future cooperation, and i am very much looking forward to it. but thank you very much for all your supportive remarks.
rapporteur. – madam president, i thank you and our colleagues for your support and the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation. despite the continuous resentment of some eurosceptics here and radical brexiteers on the other side of the channel, the positive tone of this debate shows that for this parliament, time is come for cooperation, not confrontation. building on our common history and on our common values, we must be able to build with the uk a strong partnership to meet the common challenges we face from the war in ukraine, the related challenges on defence, security and geopolitical issues, the energy crisis, the supply chain disruptions, climate change, migration, you name it. the confrontation against the eu is not only dangerous for the stability in northern ireland, it is also simply absurd from the point of view of our common economic interests. so i hope that in the near future we can talk a little bit more about the trade and cooperation agreement and a bit less about the withdrawal agreement. for that to happen, of course, prime minister rishi sunak has to secure sufficient political support in the uk and probably also in northern ireland. but one thing is certain: this is a great opportunity, it cannot be wasted.
in writing. subject to expected confirmation by the council, the agreement recently reached between the european commission and the uk government the so-called windsor framework allows for the full implementation of the withdrawal agreement and the trade and cooperation agreement. we welcome this agreement. it opens up many perspectives for the new relationship between the eu and the uk. the trade and cooperation agreement has a great deal of potential which must be exploited to the best of both partners' interests, while respecting two red lines which the commission has set out: the agreement itself may not be amended and no new initiatives may be taken which are not already provided for in the agreement. i very much welcome the exception made in application of this last rule for additional structural cooperation in the field of foreign policy, including security and defence policy. i have stressed the importance of this on several occasions, and the fact that the necessary ground is now being laid deserves all the attention and support. in the light of the current geopolitical context and the challenges and threats we face on a global scale, this initiative speaks for itself.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, commissioner, tomorrow in the context of the ongoing three—month long blockade of the lachin corridor, we will vote in the european parliament on the report on eu—armenia relations. i have proposed amendments to reflect the cutting of this vital connection with armenia, which is worsening the humanitarian crisis for the population of nagorno-karabakh. i urge azerbaijan to take all possible measures to ensure unrestricted movement of persons, vehicles and cargo along the lachin corridor in both directions. this is the decision also taken by the international court of justice on 22 february this year. in addition to this first comment, the report we are going to vote on tomorrow transmits a number of important messages. we reiterate the principles of the united nations charter and the osce helsinki final act, namely the non—use of force, the territorial integrity and the equal rights of self—determination of people. only the full respect of all these principles can lead to a peaceful resolution of the conflict between armenia and azerbaijan. i am very sad to see that the minsk group failure to lead for a reliable solution. we stick for decades to the format and we must finally admit its failure. two of the main principles of this basic principle were violated. force was used and there was no will to respect the self—determination of people. we cannot consider russia as a fair facilitator, but only as a regime that wants to keep and increase armenia’s dependence on it for as long as possible. in the report, we call on armenia to consider diversifying its security partnership and move away from its reliance on russia, where putin’s regime has demonstrated it cannot be a trusted partner. i welcome the establishment of the eu mission in armenia after a successful eu monitoring capacity between 20 october and 19 december 2022. to make full use of the strong eu engagement, i would like to urge azerbaijan to allow the eu mission access to its side of the border as well. this is an important confidence—building step between the two countries. a key element is a reliable international guarantee for the future of the armenians living in nagorno-karabakh, in the area of security, social life, religious freedom, education, among others. the other important aspects for a peace between armenia and azerbaijan are: the process of border delimitation and demarcation; the signature of a peace treaty; the establishment of a transport link between lachin and the western regions of azerbaijan; the release of all remaining armenian prisoners, both military and civilians; the prevention of any future destruction of cultural heritage; and the agreement to refrain from using hate speech and violent rhetoric, especially at the highest level of state and government. it is important also to mention and welcome the steps towards normalisation of relations between armenia and turkey, including through the act of solidarity of armenia in relation to the tragic earthquake which hit turkey and syria on 6 february. in the text of the report, we also welcome the entry into force of the eu—armenia comprehensive and enhanced partnership agreement and encourage armenia to continue working towards its full implementation. we also note the progress made by armenia in reforming the judiciary, carrying out constitutional and police reform, as well as working together with the eu on a wide range of fields of cooperation with europol, the european migration network, horizon europe, erasmus+, creative europe. we call for the completion of the process of visa liberalisation between the eu and armenia in order to support people—to—people contacts, closer bilateral ties and reform processes. the section on human rights and fundamental freedoms includes provision of gender equality, combating violence against women and protection of lgbtiq community. i would like also to raise another point related to members of the opposition parties in armenia. it is always questionable when members of the opposition are denied the possibility to participate in meetings of the european parties to which they are affiliated. let me finish by thanking my colleagues for the great cooperation on this report, and i look forward to a fruitful discussion today.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of this house, let me thank the rapporteur, mr kovatchev, and all the members who have contributed to the report on eu—armenia relations that we are discussing today. your report provides a good overview of the challenges the country faces. armenia is a country that has suffered double crises: the 2020 war and the covid pandemic. moreover, following russia’s invasion of ukraine, armenia finds itself in a difficult position, having to rely for its security on a country that is carrying out an unprovoked aggression against its neighbour. in this context, armenia is looking towards the european union as a fundamental partner. given steady progress on reforms in democracy, fundamental freedoms, rule of law, and the fight against corruption, armenia deserves our full support. our comprehensive and enhanced partnership agreement is the blueprint for armenia’s domestic reforms agenda. it has now been fully enforced for over two years. the economic and investment plan has the potential to mobilise around eur 2.6 billion in private investments. it is already delivering in armenia through developing green connectivity, energy efficiency, as well as supporting smes and socio—economic development. of course, as your report rightly points out, much still needs to be done when it comes to the functioning of the justice sector, the fight against discrimination, gender equality, but also protection of vulnerable groups and to tackle foreign disinformation. we have an in—depth, regular dialogue with the armenian authorities on all these issues. the report also calls to further enhance eu armenia economic and trade relations. the eu—armenia, but also armenia—russia trade flows have increased several fold since the eu imposed additional sanctions on russia. while we welcome our more intensive exchanges with armenia, due to its geographic location it is also one of the partner countries with which we intend to cooperate more closely with the aim to prevent the circumvention of sanctions. the eu is also actively involved in facilitating dialogue between armenia and azerbaijan. we remain committed to continue acting as an honest broker to help achieve the common goal of a secure, prosperous and peaceful south caucasus for the benefit of all of its people. the president of the european council, supported by the eeas and our special representative has personally invested in this. we also have regular contacts with the ministers of foreign affairs of both countries on this. the leaders of armenia and azerbaijan should use the historic opportunity to solve this conflict for good and return to the substantial dialogue, as many important questions need still to be solved urgently. one such urgent issue is the obstruction of movement in the lachin corridor. since the beginning of december, the eu has mobilised all diplomatic efforts to solve this situation. the ongoing restrictions to freedom of movement and to the supply of vital goods are causing serious distress for the local population. as the deadly incident of the 5 march showed, the situation in this area is flammable. finally, i would like to mention the fully—fledged civilian csdp mission that the eu has established in armenia since january. among others, the mission observes and reports on the security situation on the ground. this is yet another concrete and essential element in the eu’s effort to support the peace process between armenia and azerbaijan.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the conflict in the nagorno-karabakh region must be resolved through diplomacy and not through arms. azerbaijan must end its acts of blockade and harassment and give priority to the negotiation offered by armenia. a peace treaty is within reach if azerbaijan agrees to provide reasonable guarantees to ensure the security and rights of the armenians of nagorno-karabakh. these guarantees could include the establishment of a demilitarised zone around the region or an international presence in the armenian populated territory. it is regrettable that azerbaijan considers the issue of the rights and security of armenians living in nagorno-karabakh to be exclusively its internal affair. this intransigent attitude confirms the fears of the us intelligence services that the us is about to launch a new military offensive against armenia, as it did last september. the prime minister of armenia also thinks so, and he has just today invited the european union observers to be vigilant in the hope of avoiding this. in the face of this situation, the member states of the european union must unambiguously support armenia, which is the victim, against azerbaijan, which is the aggressor. this is all the more necessary since the armenian people are historically and culturally a european people who fought valiantly against the expansionism of the ottoman empire and paid a very high price for their spirit of resistance. it was the site of a genocide by the turks in 1915, and then came under soviet rule. armenia, which regained its independence in 1991 after the collapse of the ussr, must not be abandoned by the european union in the face of the turkish-backed offensive by azerbaijan. european solidarity must work to the benefit of armenia.
madam president, commissioner, a country perpetrator of a crime of aggression, war crimes and genocide – ironically, genocide – serves as peacekeeper in a long—standing conflict between armenia and azerbaijan, always, for decades, willing to ignite it in order to divert our attention from its own crimes. it is good that nato and important allies like the us engage this year in forging dialogue between armenia and azerbaijan, also counting on our positive, constructive contribution to this. it is of utmost importance to know that no security guarantees by russia to armenia may contribute to solving this conflict. both countries are our partners and we have to support them.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as one of the oldest countries in the world, armenia has a very rich history. with a population shaped by christianity. but also a population that suffers. the conflict over nagorno-karabakh is deeply rooted. the armenians there are made to live almost impossible. they live there in complete isolation, especially now that the only access to the area is blocked by azerbaijan. and the russian so-called peacekeeping force, she stands by and watches. mr president, we must not sit by and watch. the extension of the european observation mission is a good first step. it is now essential that this mission also have access to the azerbaijani side of the border. i call on azerbaijan to lift the blockade of the lachin corridor immediately. and at the same time, mr president, i stress the importance of a peaceful political settlement of the conflict. the eu can play an important mediating role in this.
mr. president, in the real world, more and more people can't pay their bills. the skyrocketing inflation is driving people into poverty. people are trying to survive. but the eu's mindset - i call it planet strasbourg - is very different. the commission is pushing through one coercive law after another. take the nature restoration act, which threatens dutch industry and employment. or take the new building codes, which require homeowners to spend money to make their homes "timberman-proof". and take the ban on the combustion engine, which will hopefully be blocked, but otherwise makes driving unaffordable for millions of people. all laws that no one asked for. in fact, it impoverishes people, takes away their freedom and creates bureaucracy. it's getting too much. it's not helping people. stop this climate coercion. stop creating problems. start with problem solving. and most importantly: start thinking in terms of the best interests of the people. in short, colleagues, get off planet strasbourg and return to earth.
mr president, the mediterranean sea is the deadliest migration route in the world. and this is not a law by nature; it’s caused by mankind. but the political decision to ignore search and rescue obligations, shift responsibility to the libyan coastguard, obstruct the work of ngos saving lives, this is a policy of deliberate disengagement, a lack of solidarity and a shameless evasion of one’s own obligations. and the response to every tragedy is giving more boats to the libyan coastguard, meaning more people contained in hell. but where are the genuine life jackets? where is an eu—coordinated search and rescue mechanism? where’s the mandatory relocation for rescued asylum seekers? where is the protection for humanitarian workers, and where are the safe and legal migration routes? where is the display of humanity? so, council and commission, stop this deadly tactic of looking away and fencing off, and hold up the fundament of the eu, namely our values.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, in these days we have witnessed a shameful campaign of defamation against the italian government and against giorgia meloni, who is even accused of having blood on her hands and of being indifferent, while a person is drowning behind her. how do you sleep at night? the question was asked by my colleagues on the left. and that is what we are asking of you, colleagues. you who speculate on the death of so many desperate people, including too many children: how do you sleep at night? you who condemn the italian government and don't say a word against the boatmen or the wagner group that uses immigrants to divide europe: how do you sleep at night? you who today accuse the italian right-wing government and yesterday you were silent about the spanish left-wing government: how do you sleep at night? you who with your weak policies and your ngos have been playing the game of human traffickers for years: how do you sleep at night? you who no longer know the truth but only hate, lies and hypocrisy: how do you sleep at night?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, take responsibility for your actions. it is because you encourage migrants to make this dangerous journey of hiding that they tragically die at sea. with your continuous appeals to immigration, your support for the principle of non-refoulement, the assurance given to illegal immigrants that they will never be returned to their country 90% of the oqtf in france are not applied. finally, the impunity for the mafia networks of smugglers and your benevolence towards the complicit ngos is your responsibility. the only way to prevent these deaths is for migrants to be convinced that they should not attempt the crossing. we will not receive them. australia did this in 2015, bringing the number of deaths at sea to zero. this is what the uk wants to do, which has committed the british to brexit. it's the only way to stop people risking their lives to get on board. it is the only way to prevent the planned disappearance of our civilization under the migratory flood.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. time and again, deeply shocking tragedies take place in the mediterranean. many thousands of people have already lost their lives on the dangerous journey to europe. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet ready to take a decision on the matter. those activists who pose as rescuers in the mediterranean, as well as all the unscrupulous smugglers and the whole red-green mass immigration lobby, are actively contributing to the desperate people from africa, the middle east and the middle east trying to enter europe illegally in the first place, taking the life-threatening, often deadly sea crossing. they bear full responsibility for this human suffering on our external borders. i say, this illegal and deadly practice must end. there can be only one message from the eu to the world: illegal migration into the eu has no chance, it will not be tolerated. it is the only way to protect our external borders effectively, to combat the smuggling gangs and, above all, to save countless lives from drowning. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question by means of a 'blue card' procedure.)
blue-card reply. – well, it is quite clear if they have the opportunity to come to europe this way, they will do it. it is just evidence, nothing else. so it is quite easy. if there is no more chance to come in this way, they won’t do it any more. that’s the australian way, you know, and that would be a solution that not so many people must die in the mediterranean as they do at the time. so we must change this by saying, ‘no, not this way’. i’m not at all against legal kind of migration, but not in an illegal way, which leads people directly into death by drowning.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, during the november plenary session here in this house, i and other members urged the commission and the council to come forward with a concrete proposal to prevent illegal immigration and human trafficking and yet another massacre of deaths at sea. at this point i wonder whether it is worth continuing to discuss this in this house if there is no one to take our positions into account and, above all, to follow up what this parliament has clearly and repeatedly expressed. this is the third debate in the last three months on the issue of immigration, a dramatically topical issue on which it seems incredibly impossible to find a common solution. so i ask myself: how many more debates do we have to have? and, more importantly, how many more deaths do we have to mourn? the shipwreck of the cutro in recent days has shocked everyone deeply and once again italy has been unjustly made the protagonist of this tragedy. but let me be clear: the tragedy of cutro is not an italian tragedy, but a european tragedy. just as there is no migration emergency in italy, but there is a migration emergency in europe. and it is a europe which must intervene and not merely debate. so, our prime minister has done well to bring the issue of immigration to the next european council, to show that italy is there and wants to do its part but cannot be alone. because we need a single european policy which provides for genuine and undisputed solidarity between all the states, a ban on human traffickers and, above all, a new pact on immigration which strengthens cooperation with the countries of origin and guarantees legal migration which can be really welcomed and integrated. there are no more excuses: another disaster at sea will have only one culprit, unfortunately: the european union and its negligence.
mr president, in this debate, a false contradiction is always created. like it's cruel to want border protection. as if it would be humane to continue to allow mass human smuggling into europe. this is both completely untrue. borders are necessary to protect the prosperity and security of the people in our countries. and mass human smuggling is inhumane. because the only reason people are getting on these old boats is that they hope that ngos will take them and they can stay in europe for the rest of their lives. the solution is simple and everyone knows it. have frontex secure the borders. asylum applications can now be submitted from third countries. anyone who comes to europe illegally will be sent back and will never be allowed to enter europe again. this policy will protect our countries and save lives. and i repeat once again the words of my colleague mr rooken. laundering illegal immigration, by letting the same people come in legally from now on, is not the solution to the problem.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). is this the free europe for women? that is the question we are facing. this case should never have come to trial. and what do i read today in the media that surprises me? that the european commission does not wish to react to individual cases. the president of the european parliament is not making any statement on this either. that can't be true! because this would never have happened if we had taken timely and firm action against the polish government, against the rule of law which it does not respect. so i am very much wondering - i have a specific question for president von der leyen in particular - what she is going to do now to hold poland to account, to ensure that there are no more examples like the one we saw with justyna. because i'm telling you, this isn't just gonna happen to her. this is gonna happen to more women. so step up, say something. women are not safe in poland and perhaps not in other european member states which can follow suit.
mr president, it’s very important that we discuss the topic today of anti-discrimination legislation. equality is one of the fundamental values on which the european union is founded, and it is through legislation that we can protect the fundamental rights of citizens. and it is therefore very important that we continue with implementing anti-discrimination legislation. the numbers don’t lie. we have so many surveys, so many researches, so many statistics and numbers that show that people feel discriminated, that people are still excluded because of who they are, what they look like, what your name is or what your skin colour is, you name it. and therefore we have a responsibility. and i think the european parliament already took that responsibility to make sure that we have legislation in place. so the request to the council is to make sure that you make work of it and that you do that as quickly as possible. because the european union is also founded to make sure that fundamental rights of citizens are protected. and this is exactly what we can promote in the world. and if we want to promote human rights in the world, then we need to do the same, and we can do that through legislation.
author. – mr president, so obviously the government of iran has completely lost their legitimacy when they decided to systematically discriminate against women and minorities. and what is so much important right now is that there will be a legitimate investigation. to make sure that the un can do a fact-finding mission to iran to also make sure that we have an investigation that is legitimate and that is fair, because we need girls in the world to have education, that is their right. and it’s absolutely absurd what is happening right now. iran is violently repressing their own people and, therefore, the member states should make sure that we make available humanitarian visas for women and girls that are so much in need right now. that’s the best we can do at least. and let us also make sure that the irgc will become a terrorist organisation, will be put on the terrorist list, because it is very important now that as the eu, we make use of our instruments, we make use of our voice and we make a strong statement towards such a regime who does not respect women’s rights and girls’ rights.
the citizens' initiative 'save the bees and the farmers' rightly draws attention to the great importance of pollinators for agriculture and horticulture. after all, more than a third of our food crops depend on pollination by honeybees and wild bees. the use of plant protection products must therefore be closely monitored in terms of their effects on insects. this requires a clear authorisation framework and accelerated authorisation of low-risk medicines. however, the total phase-out of synthetic pesticides by 2035, as advocated by the citizens' initiative, seems to me to be an unrealistic future prospect. plant protection products will have to be available at all times to respond to emerging diseases and pests. a mix of measures is needed: integrated crop protection; invest in new varieties, robust crops and healthy soils and precision farming. but i also think about further encouraging good initiatives on the farmland, such as planting flower beds and creating nesting grounds for insects. mr president, only with such an integrated approach can we save the farmer and ensure that the consumer has a constant supply of healthy and safe food.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw the attention of the house to the very serious events that took place yesterday in the city of naples, where numerous groups of organized german violence set fire to the city, destroying shops, intimidating the citizens and it is thanks to the police, the italian organization, that there were no deaths. how is it possible that the german socialist government could have allowed a transfer already known and widely announced on all social media and that there were no formal and substantial apologies from the german authorities, but above all the payment of huge damages to the city of naples.
mr president, my point is the following. yesterday we had the formal sitting for the international women’s day, a day that is very cherished for many of us in this house. and the silence from the highest leadership by ursula von der leyen, charles michel, who was there, and even from our own roberta metsola, on the fact that in poland a woman has been convicted for helping another woman to access abortion care, in a country where six women have already died because of the ban on abortion, and that silence from that political leadership, it’s unbearable. it’s unbearable for women out there in europe. it’s a shame.
mr president , dear colleagues, today we are to vote on the resolution concerning the situation in cambodia. and may i invite you to welcome the delegation led by sam rainsy of the cambodian national rescue party and his delegation present today in this house?
thank you very much, mr. beck. i am glad to hear you speak german in this chamber. we will of course take note of that.
mr president, these days is the 20th anniversary of the criminal and unlawful invasion in iraq. so some days ago we voted and we did well to bring in justice the russian leader, mr putin, for each invasion. don't you think now, dear colleagues, it would be a good idea to bring in justice the mr bush and mr blair for their criminal actions? (noises off)i know you like him, i know you like him, don't worry! one million people died. somebody must pay for this.
mr president, i just wanted to say to mr mussolini that every government is responsible for public order in its own country. so if the italian government has failed to stop violent fans, the fault lies with the italian government, which will obviously have to answer to parliament and the citizens.
we now come to the next item on the agenda, the votes. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
rapporteur. – mr president, the new digital identity framework is a real game-changer. why? because it will put citizens in full control of their own data and give them the freedom to decide exactly what information to share with whom and when. by using the wallet, they will be able to link their national identities with documents such as driving licence and university diplomas and bank accounts, electronic health records, and solve their real problems in life in all european countries. i want to highlight that the using of digital wallet will be strictly on a voluntary basis. and because we understand the risks, we introduced important safeguards. and going digital is no longer a choice, it’s a necessity and the process cannot be undone. but it’s up to us to find the most suitable regulation framework that will allow us to benefit from the transformational potential of technology. and while some see nothing but threats and obstacles in the digital identity framework, others, like me, see the endless opportunities. so, colleagues, i would ask your support to enter into the negotiations.
mr president, on 9 february itre adopted its position on the european digital identity. itre also adopted a mandate to enter into interinstitutional negotiations. this means the digital identity would go straight to the trilogue without a plenary vote. the european digital identity is controversial in many member states. people are worried about data protection and privacy rights, and i think this level of public attention merits a plenary vote. we may have different opinions about the european digital identity, which is great. democracy is all about differences in opinion, but if we take ourselves seriously as a democratic institution, we should at least hold a vote on contentious subjects like the digital identity in all openness in the full presence of the plenary. that way, democracy shines brightest. therefore, i would like to ask all of you to vote against the mandate given by itre committee so that we will have a plenary vote on the digital identity.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, dear president of the commission, dear president of the council, dear vice-president šefčovič, dear president metsola, dear colleagues, we are faced with several crises and conducting fundamental reforms. we are refurbishing and rebuilding our european house at the same time. for our citizens, it’s a lot. how do we strike a balance between tackling climate change but remain competitive? how can we afford to pay for our energy bills now and in the future? how can we make ends meet while inflation is eating away the salaries and food prices are rising? all these challenges against the backdrop of a horrible war being fought on our continent. the best way to deliver good jobs and protect income is a more competitive europe. yes, we must react to the new global dynamics and enhance strategic autonomy, without losing sight of earning capacity. the engine of our economy is our single market. let’s deepen it, not fragment it. deepening the capital markets union, lowering energy costs and embracing new technology, and also signing new trade deals. what better signal could we have before the elections, madam president, than in a host of new trade agreements – from south america, even perhaps from the united states? colleagues, irregular migration is a great concern for many. that is why renew europe worked hard to build a majority in this house on files that are building blocks of the migration and asylum pact. let’s use this momentum. it’s now up to the council. promises of progress in june cannot become september, and september cannot slip to december. we need the full attention of the commission and the council to deliver the real results now. our institutions are ready. colleagues, the war in ukraine shows europe is best when it acts with unity. we welcome the joint purchase of ammunition, an initiative born in the renew europe family. the agreement to create the new international centre for prosecution of the crime of aggression against ukraine is important. and i think i speak for the house when i say we look forward to welcoming mr putin in the hague – and as a dutch mep, you can imagine that i will be there. madam president, the uncertainties faced by our citizens must be met with an iron resolve to address their concerns and bring hope for a brighter tomorrow. and we ask you both to play your part to make this a reality.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected. this is also true today of product design and safety, because the standard assumption is now that the average white male is 6'2" and weighs 170 pounds, whereas a product that is safe for a man is certainly not automatically safe for a woman. while consumers in europe should be able to rely on the safety of the products they buy, this is not the case for half of society. for example, during the coronavirus pandemic, protective equipment such as suits and masks were not available in the right sizes for women, even though it is often women who work in healthcare. this put them at greater risk of corona infection. so i'm very happy that we now have product safety rules that are contemporary and that take gender into account. the fight against patriarchy must be heard everywhere: in the streets, in parliaments, and in writing a dry european product safety law that contributes to gender equality. i therefore hope that the commission will follow suit and take a gender perspective in all legislation.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, ‘you explain to my son that i am not his mother’ – this was written on one of the signs in milan where thousands of people joined the protest against the restrictions of same-sex parents’ rights. and we should all ask ourselves this. how should a parent explain to their child that in the eyes of the administration they are not a family? how should a parent explain to their child that they can no longer pick them up from school or take them to the doctor? and how can we explain to children that their parents are being scapegoated and that their rights are taken away to hide the political failure of a right wing government? and this strategy to attack and dehumanise our community for political gain and to take away our rights isn’t new. we have seen where it leads to in hungary and we have seen where it leads to in poland. and we can’t accept yet another country, one of our founding member states, backsliding on equal rights. and we continue hearing the same narrative. they claim that they are protecting the children, but the only way to protect children is by ensuring their parents have the legal rights to take care of them, in all member states. these are european children. these are european parents. and we, as european legislators, are obliged to protect their rights. to all mums and dads, current and future, and all the rainbow children in italy: we love you, we have your backs and we will try to do what it takes to protect you.
mr president, so that was a quick run – first time in parliament! – voorzitter, ik ben opgegroeid in een warm gezin in nederland, vol liefde en genegenheid. mijn ouders houden van mij en mijn zus en hebben mij laten zien wat onvoorwaardelijke liefde is. die is vooral niet perfect, maar wel onvoorwaardelijk. met hulp van hun goede voorbeeld probeer ik mijn eigen kinderen met net zoveel onvoorwaardelijke liefde te laten opgroeien. de liefde en genegenheid die ik tijdens mijn jeugd heb mogen voelen, is een voorbeeld van goed ouderschap. je kinderen de ruimte geven om te ontdekken wat ze willen doen, dat is goed ouderschap. je kinderen helpen opstaan als ze vallen, dat is goed ouderschap. ouders die kunnen laten zien dat ze van elkaar houden, dat is goed ouderschap. wat hier helemaal niks mee te maken heeft, is of deze ouders toevallig hetzelfde geslacht hebben of niet. maar nu, in de eu, besluit de italiaanse regering om te bekrachtigen dat het in italië onmogelijk moet zijn om ouders van hetzelfde geslacht beide als ouder van hun kind te laten gelden. we kunnen dat als europees parlement, maar ook als europese unie, niet accepteren. de waarden van de unie komen onder druk te staan als we dit accepteren, onder het mom van “dat moet italië zelf weten”. dat werkt niet. want wat in italië gebeurt, staat niet op zichzelf. overal in de wereld, in europa en daarbuiten, staan rechten van lhbti-personen en vrouwen onder druk. conservatieve religieuze antigenderorganisaties krijgen het telkens weer voor elkaar om angst in te boezemen voor zaken waar geen angst voor nodig is. want kunt u mij vertellen wat er zo eng is aan twee mensen die van elkaar houden? de invloed van deze organisaties reikt ver. doen alsof dit een incident is dat alleen nationaal bekeken moet worden, is de ogen sluiten voor wat er gebeurt in de wereld. daarom moeten we ons blijven uitspreken tegen deze organisaties. parlement en commissie moeten de handen in elkaar slaan om hun functioneren, de wijze waarop ze gefinancierd worden, hun strategieën en hun banden met de politiek bloot te leggen. dit moet stoppen. want daar waar geen transparantie is van het politieke doel, daar waar geen transparantie is van financiën, daar waar alleen angst het doel is, daar wordt niet gewerkt aan democratie, maar aan de afbraak van de democratie. daar moeten wij de eu-burgers voor beschermen, door zichtbaar te maken wat er gebeurt. want ieder kind heeft recht op een liefdevolle familie. dat heeft niks te maken met hetero of gay, maar alles met de familie die het beste met je voor heeft. dat gaat over liefde en vertrouwen. dat is het tegenovergestelde van haat en angst. iedereen kan kiezen.
rapporteur. – mr president, good morning, dear colleagues, good morning, commissioner. today we will make history. i am incredibly proud to stand in this house and to say to all women in europe, ‘we are here for you’. in fact, we can say this to all workers in europe. this directive says you deserve to be treated equally and you deserve to be paid fairly, regardless of your gender, your background or your physical characteristics. with this directive, we have secured the right to information in europe for all our citizens, and we will finally have the binding legislation we need to tackle pay discrimination in all our member states. if we had left it up to the markets, the gender pay gap would only correct itself by 2086. how could we justify this to women? how could we explain this to ourselves? we cannot. and for far too long the economy has been organised with men in mind. women were not the norm and you can see this in the representation of women in leadership positions, in the pay gap, in the pension gap. there is a structural problem here and we can’t just smash the glass ceiling. we need to rebuild the entire house. and today we are doing exactly that. deze wet inzake loontransparantie geeft alle vrouwen in europa de handvatten om te achterhalen of zij gelijk worden betaald. je hoeft voortaan niet per ongeluk te horen dat je mannelijke collega in dezelfde functie met hetzelfde profiel toch meer betaald krijgt. je hoeft dit helemaal niet meer te accepteren. we maken met deze wet een juridisch kader om de genderloonkloof tegen te gaan met stevige middelen waarmee we een cultuuromslag gaan realiseren. we werken toe naar echte gelijkwaardigheid op de werkvloer. bedrijven die de regels aan hun laars lappen en vrouwen ongelijk betalen, komen er niet meer mee weg. en als de zaak bij de rechter komt, dan moet het bedrijf zelf maar bewijzen dat er geen sprake is geweest van loondiscriminatie. ik ben zo ongelofelijk trots op deze inclusieve en moderne europese wetgeving. voor het eerst noemen wij expliciet non-binaire mensen in de wetgeving. voor het eerst erkennen wij intersectionele discriminatie en mag de rechtspraak dit als verzwarende factor meewegen bij zaken over loondiscriminatie. dit was voor mij een persoonlijk punt, want ik was weggelopen van de tafel als dit er niet in zou komen. ik zit in de politiek om de norm te veranderen en die norm moest veranderd worden. emancipatie is een werkwoord en dat is waarom we in de politiek zitten, om ervoor te zorgen dat emancipatie ook echt emancipatie is. i know there are those in this very room that will vote against this directive. i know that they will hide behind hollow words such as ‘gender ideology’ or ‘administrative burden’. the truth is that the women of europe are watching and they will remember your vote. they will remember how you put corporate interests before their lives. they will remember how you did not show up for them today. take that into account. i am incredibly proud of my colleague kira with whom i led these negotiations, thank you very much. together, we show what modern, inclusive european legislation looks like. i am honoured to have done this with you, with our team, with dedicated advisors claire, julia, myrthe, asta, laura and hoba. and i thank our excellent negotiation team from all political groups, because today we will make history together. i am glad that we could constructively work together with the french presidency, with the czech presidency, with the commission. we have shown that if we want to reach true equality for all people living in europe, we need to work together.
mr president, suppose you win €300 000 in the lottery. what would you do with that? pay off your mortgage? buy a new car? but let me be honest. most people don't win the lottery and just have to work really hard, day in and day out. and yet, about half of all of us get a bonus of €300,000 while we're working. that is the amount that men earn on average more than women for the same hours worked in a working life. women earn on average 12% less in europe and in my own country - the netherlands - it is even 14% less. most people don't know this. most employers don't know this. they just say: no, of course not, i don't do that, it doesn't happen to me. but we know plenty of examples of women who try to get their rights and then lose their jobs. so today we're taking a very important step. we're going to get rid of this bizarre reality. the eu is reversing reality. it is now up to employers to prove that there is no unequal pay in their companies. with the reversal of the burden of proof, the responsibility comes where it belongs: the employer, the company and the government. i'm very proud and thank kira and samira for their hard work on this. today, member states have three years to implement this. let's hope they do it a little faster.
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you, dear colleagues, for your support and the valuable contributions. you know, i’m not going to waste any time anymore in this house to explain that we have gender inequality in europe. i’m just not going to do that anymore. i’m going to fix it, because it needs attention, it needs time to fix gender inequality. the administrative burden for companies, i hear. really? you want to talk business? there is a well-known report in the netherlands from mckinsey saying that the dutch economy is losing billions because of the lack of gender equality. administrative burden? while you’re losing billions? come on. the statistics show a 13 % gender pay gap in europe. that’s the statistics here, and it’s significant. what's your solution? contribute to the solution then. fix the issue then. because it’s still 13 % and we’re still talking. now we are really doing something. it’s the very first step to close the gender pay gap. and it’s a right. it’s a european right. it’s in our treaties to treat men and women equally. so i don’t understand the issue here. and i’m very proud because this legislation is progressive, it’s modern, it’s feminist, it’s liberal, it’s intersectional. so today is a good day. and i’m going to celebrate. i’m going to celebrate because we have true legislation in place from now to give women their rights specifically to be paid on an equal basis. so i’m going to celebrate big time because it’s a good day for women in europe.
mr president, the polish dismantling of judicial independence is almost done. the draft law on the supreme court, tabled to unblock the rf money, will not solve the problem. no, it will actually worsen it. legal experts, therefore call it the ‘law on the destruction of the supreme administration court’, as it will kill the last piece of independence. and, at the same time, the politically captured national council of the judiciary continues to pump illegitimate judges into the court system. any judicial reform will be illusory as long as the commission does not tackle this root cause with an infringement procedure. so please start one, commissioner. judges, lawyers, civil society are desperately waiting for the eu to stand by their side and defend their values. they face harassment, intimidation, criminalisation. we are failing our allies. so, council and commission, step up the fight. keep the money frozen. use all tools to be the real guardian of the treaties for all our european citizens.
madam president, i voted for the report on the rule of law in the european union, but you should know that the rule of law is in danger in the european union, and i will tell you why: because in our countries, in national parliaments, in national governments, there are criminals who are trying to get rid of their own files by simply voting. and as long as we have this thing, we can't defend ourselves against them unless we have some common definitions of corruption crimes, because we have the european public prosecutor's office, we have prosecutors to deal with corrupt people, but what we don't have are uniform laws across the european union. it can happen as it happened in my country, in romania, in 2017, and as it happened yesterday, but it can happen in other countries in the future, namely, corrupt people in parliament or in government, simply pass laws for themselves to get rid of the files. we can stop them from doing this. we have prosecutors who want to deal with them, but we also need european laws, uniform laws, that take away their right to change their files with a simple wave of the hand in parliament.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday, 30 march 2023.
dear colleagues, it has now been 20 days since the detention of wall street journal reporter evan gershkovich in russia. let me reiterate our call for his safe release and underline the european parliament’s commitment to seeing him free as quickly as possible. journalists must be able to do their job without fearing for their lives or their freedom, and this is a line that should not have been crossed. it is a pattern that we are witnessing again and again in russia. jailed opposition politician and sakharov prize laureate alexei navalny’s condition remains of deep concern, with journalists reporting it as critical. so from here, on behalf of the european parliament, let me once again call for his immediate and unconditional release. all this is happening while the illegal invasion of ukraine by russia continues. and here let me remind everyone that russia has an obligation to ensure that prisoners of war are treated humanely and in all circumstances in accordance with the geneva convention. all perpetrators of war crimes will be brought to justice. this world will not forget the brutality this invasion has brought. dear colleagues, also in the past few days we have witnessed a deterioration of the situation in sudan. violent clashes have already caused countless deaths and undermined efforts to ensure a democratic transition in sudan. the european parliament strongly condemns these violent acts and calls on all parties to cease hostilities and ensure the safety of the entire population and the stability of the country.
the minutes and the texts adopted of the sittings of 29 and 30 march 2023 are available. are there any comments? i see that is not the case. then the minutes are approved.
the competent authorities of italy have notified me that simona baldassarre and luisa regimenti have been appointed assessors of the region of lazio, and that pierfrancesco majorino has been elected counsellor of the region of lombardy. parliament takes note of the vacancy of their seats from 3, 4 and 5 april 2023 respectively, in accordance with the rules of procedure. the competent authorities of italy have also notified me of the election of maria veronica rossi, francesca peppucci and mercedes bresso to the european parliament replacing simona baldassarre, luisa regimenti and pierfrancesco majorino respectively with effect from 6 april 2023. the competent authorities of finland have notified me that laura huhtasaari has been elected member of the national parliament of finland. parliament takes note of the vacancy of her seat from 12 april 2023, in accordance with the rules of procedure. the competent authorities of finland have also notified me of the election of pirkko ruohonen-lerner to the european parliament replacing laura huhtasaari with effect from 12 april 2023. i wish to welcome our new italian and finnish colleagues and recall that they take their seat in parliament and its bodies in full enjoyment of their rights pending the verification of their credentials.
i have received a request from the competent authorities in belgium for the parliamentary immunity of alexis georgoulis to be waived. this request is referred to the committee on legal affairs.
teuvo hakkarainen is no longer a member of the id group as of 5 april 2023 and has joined the ecr group as of 6 april 2023.
the s&d and id groups have notified me of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees and delegations. these decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and take effect on the date of this announcement.
in relation to the interpretation of rule 9(6) of parliament’s rules of procedure announced in plenary on wednesday, 29 march, i have not received any contestations within the 24-hour deadline pursuant to rule 236(4). the interpretation proposed by the afco committee is therefore deemed approved.
in relation to the decisions by several committees to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) announced at the opening of the sitting on wednesday, 29 march, i have received no request for a vote in parliament by members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold. the committees may therefore start the negotiations.
several committees have decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations, pursuant to rule 71(1) of the rules of procedure. the reports, which constitute the mandates for the negotiations, are available on the plenary webpage and their titles will be published in the minutes. pursuant to rule 71(2), members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold may request in writing by tomorrow, tuesday, 18 april, at midnight, that the decisions be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in parliament is made within the deadline, the committees may start the negotiations.
i would also like to inform you, finally, that, together with the president of the council, i shall, on wednesday, sign five acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with rule 79 of parliament’s rules of procedure. the titles of the acts will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
we now come to the order of business. the final draft agenda as adopted by the conference of presidents on 13 april pursuant to rule 157 has been distributed. with the agreement of the political groups, i wish to put to the house the following proposals for changes to the final draft agenda. on monday, the sitting is extended until 23.00. on tuesday, the vote on the report by ms borzan on ‘empowering consumers for the green transition’ is postponed to the may part—session. the statement by the high representative on the situation in peru is moved to the third item in the afternoon, after question time with the commission, and will be followed by the report by mr lewandowski on ‘guidelines for the 2024 budget – section iii’. on wednesday, the debate and the resolution under rule 144 on iran, the case of bernard phelan and the case of toomaj salehi are taken off the agenda. if there are no objections, these changes are approved. we will now move to the changes requested by the political groups, starting with tuesday. the epp group has requested that the council and commission statements on ‘the need for eu solidarity towards italy facing an emergency situation due to the increased flows of migrants’ be added as the second point in the morning after the key debate. i give the floor to manfred weber to move the request on behalf of the epp group.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the number of migrants in italy has increased by 300 percent compared to last year. that shows we have a special situation. italy has declared a state of emergency, and that does not bode well for what is to come this summer. that's why we think it's important to discuss the situation there now. other countries of the european union have offered to help and support italy. but so far this has not materialized, it has not become concrete. no concrete proposals have been made so far. this lack of solidarity is what we, the epp group, want to discuss in parliament. italy helps i want to expressly thank the people in italy for helping, that there is no blockade of ports the italians want to support, and that is why solidarity is necessary now. it's too late for a debate.
i have received an alternative proposal from the s&d, greens/efa and the left groups. i give the floor to ms garcía pérez to present this alternative proposal.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, as the socialist and democratic group has rightly said, we do not share the title of the debate suggested by the european people's party and, in negotiation with the green/efa group, we wish to make the following proposal for a debate: statement by the council and the commission on the need for european solidarity to save lives in the mediterranean, particularly in italy. and i am sure that, since, as mr weber has already said, his main objective - his and his group's - is to save lives, you will agree with the title of the debate we have put forward.
i give the floor now to mr séjourné. would you like to speak against?
mr weber, do you agree with the proposal of the s&d, greens/efa and the left groups?
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i just want to put on record that we fully support the legislative discussions. we are glad that it has been released stéphane, we have no disagreement at all. but we have an emergency. we have an emergency situation in italy now, and france is not helping, germany is not helping, austria, other, many countries are not helping italy at the moment. that's why we have an emergency. we have an emergency situation here. they can't debate the renew faction away, but they're there. that is why we need to have a debate this week, and that is why i would insist on our urgency motion.
we will put the request of the epp group to the vote by roll call. (parliament rejected the epp group’s request) ms garcía pérez, would you still like to keep your proposal? i see that is the case, so we will put the request of the s&d, greens/efa and the left groups to a vote by roll call. (parliament agreed to the proposal from the s&d, greens/efa and the left groups)therefore we will have a council and commission statement on ‘the need for european solidarity in saving lives in the mediterranean, in particular in italy’. that will be added as the fourth item in the afternoon and the sitting will be extended until 23.00. also for tuesday, the ecr group has requested that an oral question on ‘unjustified interference by the commission in the chosen nature policy of a member state’ be added as the fourth item in the afternoon after the debate on the guidelines for the 2024 budget. i give the floor to mr ruissen to move the request on behalf of the ecr group.
the commission has recently sent a letter to the netherlands which has caused a great deal of uproar. in this letter on nitrogen policy, the commissioner is trying to impose targets and dates on dutch farmers and our whole economy that are not enshrined in european legislation. that is, of course, very questionable from an institutional point of view. the commission is responsible for ensuring that legislation adopted by the co-legislators, parliament and the council, is respected, for example the habitats directive. but she can't add her own agenda to that. so in this case, she does. we therefore think that the commission should come forward with a text and an explanation of this and we therefore propose that our oral question, the oral question unjustified interference by the commission in the chosen nature policy of a member state, be placed on the agenda.
does anyone want to speak against?
the netherlands is one of the smallest countries in the european union and at the same time one of the most densely populated countries in europe: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. in total, that's 115 million farm animals on that tiny piece of earth. the intensive dutch livestock industry fails to ensure animal welfare and to protect nature. the netherlands is finally taking action to protect nature, as the highest courts have forced it to do. but a huge lobby of the bio-industry is doing everything possible to sabotage this protection. i therefore call on my colleagues not to join the lobby of this livestock industry. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
mr ruissen, do you agree with the epp group proposal?
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i agree. i can support that, yes.
rapporteur. – mr president, as the cbam rapporteur, i am proud to be standing here and i can say that it has not been an easy ride, but we’ve made it. at least let’s hope tomorrow we will vote in favour and that the council sticks to the agreement. the green deal is at the heart of social democracy because it is not only about reaching our goal – it is also about the path towards this goal, leaving no one behind. during the european election electoral campaign, we promised to deliver on a social and ecological transition, and today we take a major step in fulfilling our promise. i am proud of s&d. we have never walked away from the negotiations. we always took responsibility and did not hide behind any other political group. dear president, i would like to thank my colleagues for the good cooperation, all of them, and the secretariat of the parliament, advisors and assistants for the outstanding work, and i thank the czech presidency for rising above themselves. and let me not forget the commission for providing us with the necessary information and being an honest broker. the agreement reached between parliament and member states on ets cbam and the social climate fund are historic. historic because for the first time… sorry, because they will bring us to our 2030 climate target, as set in the climate law. historic because, for the first time, the highly polluting maritime sector is included. historic because we will create a level playing field between eu producers and non-eu producers and finally respecting the ‘polluter pays’ principle. and historic because we will fund the energy transition for households and help them decrease their energy bill. ets has been and will be the most efficient and cost effective way to incentivise decarbonisation. the system creates a clear framework under which our producers can distinguish themselves from bad- or underperformers. for the first time in history, the free allowances – basically a right to pollute for free – will be conditioned and eventually phased out. those companies that do not show progress, and thus do not have the intention to decarbonise, will have no future in the eu. it sounds hard, but we have to be very clear about it: they should not abuse our subsidies and allowances because these limited funds should be used for others that do have the will to invest in clean technologies and help us keep the eu competitive. it is time to separate between the unwilling and the willing, between those with good intentions and those with bad intentions. with the introduction of cbam, this will also become applicable for producers outside the eu. you are still welcome to sell your products on the eu market, but we will stop the unfair competition compared to our producers. you will pay for your pollution at the border. and let me be very clear: we are not in it for the money. i don’t care about the money. i really hope that the revenues of cbam go to zero as quick as possible because this means that producers outside the eu either already pay an equivalent co2 price in their own region or they became fully decarbonised. let us start shaping the future of a clean, competitive eu industry today. let us vote in favour of these legislative files.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional policy. mr president, we are passing a big package of climate legislation this week. it was a long and difficult process and i congratulate the colleagues who played a part in it. i think there are two important lessons to be learned. the first lesson is that we in europe can manage to make radical choices. choices that will not always be popular because their impact will be felt in many sectors. but they are choices we need to make to fulfill our promise to future generations. we owe the earth and society to the generations that come after us, and that requires us to look beyond our own interests and our own time. it is good to see that we in europe are able to make good on that promise. but we must also be critical of ourselves in this parliament, because in some of the laws the level of detail has become far too great. member states and regions differ and really know best what works for them. so to achieve our goals, we must above all allow for customization. so instead of regulating everything to the six figures behind the comma from the brussels negotiating table, we should instead allow for decisions to be taken close to the people, even if this leads to differences between them. so two lessons. we can make important choices. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
when they go high, we go low. herr talman! det svenska klimatarbetet har varit ifrågasatt det senaste halvåret. men när regeringen viker ner sig och vill öka utsläppen, då ser vi till att de minskar i eu. när moderaterna ville sänka sveriges klimatmål och betala för att utsläppsminskningar skulle ske någon annanstans så förhandlade centerpartiet fram 100 miljarder till gröna innovationer. när kristdemokraterna kastade reduktionsplikten framför bussen så förhandlade centerpartiet fram utsläppsminskningar på 43 procent i europas transportsektor. när liberalerna ursäktade sig för att deras politik leder till högre utsläpp så förhandlade centerpartiet fram att sjöfarten skulle in i utsläppshandeln. och när sverigedemokraterna öppet ville överge klimatmålen och betala eu-böter så förhandlade centerpartiet fram utsläppsminskningar på 62 procent. när regeringen mer än halverar sveriges klimatbudget så ser vi till att vi gör skillnad för utsläppen i europa på riktigt. vi i centerpartiet växlar upp. jag gick in i politiken som 13-åring för att göra skillnad för klimatet och det får jag nu leverera för er här i dag, och det är jag så otroligt stolt över. när det kommer till utsläppen: when they go high, we go low.
president, in times of monstrous inflation, the european union wants to increase the co2 tax. there's a lot to be said for that. for example, the fact that this will affect poor citizens. or the immeasurably small effect this has on the climate. but today i want to talk about the damage to our competitiveness. it is only two months ago that we expressed our concern in this house. but that sense of reality has been replaced by ideology. the co2 tax is damaging our earning power, our purchasing power and therefore our prosperity. as an entrepreneur, i know: it's not the best company that survives, but the company that can adapt the best. the ideology within the eu is blinding this adaptability. because despite the monstrous inflation, despite the skyrocketing energy prices that are seeping through everything, despite a war on our continent, the european union continues on its course. more taxes, more bureaucracy, and therefore less prosperity. that's not what citizens and businesses need. therefore, reject this proposal.
mr president, we’re doing it in the wrong order this week. this thursday, we will discuss ipcc science. i am quite sure a lot of my colleagues will talk about the urgency and say ‘we need to act, it’s dramatic what’s going on’. but today we are discussing what we can do about it and what we should do about it! that’s why it’s so historic what we’re discussing here. historic because we are, as europe, increasing our ambitions – not enough to stay below the 1.5 degrees, but we are increasing our ambitions. the industry is getting a very clear signal not only for 2030, but even more important for 2040, where emission reduction will be reaching zero. but that means this is only the beginning of our work. this means we really need a green industrial policy in order to make sure that our industry can get there. then, on social, it still remains too much an afterthought. the social climate fund is insufficient for that – and we all know that. this is a responsibility for the member states. they really need to step up their game because this green transition can only succeed if it’s also a social transition.
mr president, fit for 55 has its ups and downs. i have serious reservations about the level of ambition. i foresee that by 2030 we will conclude that we have set an unattainable binding target in the legislation. so we're legally in a bind. we are already seeing our energy grid reaching its limits. the ets is a positive development in that it will reduce the emission ceiling for industry. for the system to function properly, it is simply necessary. the advantage of the ets system is also that companies have the opportunity to shape the transition in the most cost-efficient way possible. air and sea transport will now also be covered by the ets, and that too is a good thing. the fact that you can fly from amsterdam to paris or london for a few dollars is not really a thing of the past. i am glad that the built environment is now largely excluded from ets. this is not the time to increase the energy bills of households any further. i would have liked to keep the built environment completely out of ets. but adding the commercial buildings to it opens a door that we should have left closed. sustainable building is something we can leave to the member states. climate policy is needed, but with an eye to the citizen and feasibility.
i think that i should like to make two very brief points. the first: there seems to be a large majority for all three packages, but it does surprise me. some people here are very critical. they're coming here. they mostly tell you what they're against. i have to say, i'm surprised, too, because on the one hand, when you're against something, you do everything you can to change it. you are not going to stand up and say that you are against it, then walk away, and then blame only europe and brussels. europe and brussels, that's us. europe is not an invisible hand making decisions that affect the member states. we, the democratically elected members of parliament, have arrived at this result in a very careful process, together with the member states. very democratic, very transparent. europe is like waking up in the morning and looking in the mirror, and then there are days that it likes and days that it does not like. but it's really you. i just wanted to say that. there's just some guys who are champions at "ass-to-cradle". i do not know if this is translated correctly by the interpreters, but i think most people in the netherlands will understand what i mean. what have we done now? we have very carefully set frameworks within which companies can excel. you have companies that are good at it and companies that are not so good at it. but that's the market. that's how it works. i believe very strongly that with the conditions we have set today we can really work towards a green, competitive eu industry. that's why we have to vote for this legislation. those who vote against this and then hope that things will eventually get better with the energy market, with energy prices... yes, i believe in fairy tales too, but i much prefer to work to ensure that the situation for households and for business is improved. because depending on fossil fuels alone will only cause prices to rise. we'll just roll from crisis to crisis to crisis. another important element which we hope to vote for tomorrow is that of a level playing field at the border. we have had emissions trading in europe for 15 years, and yet we continue to allow unfair competition from outside europe. well, we'll stop there. that alone should be reason enough for the people in this chamber to vote in favour of this package. i will do that and i urge you to do the same tomorrow. i hope that we can work together very soon on greening our industry.
mr president, mr dombrovskis, mr borrell, i am going to refer to two fundamental aspects to be taken into account in our relations with china. the first is our deeply deteriorated trade relations, with an unsustainable trade deficit, an excessive dependence on some key raw materials and major regulatory divergences. the second is china's role as a global actor, which must exercise greater responsibility in defending human rights and peace, stability in the taiwan strait, the end of putin's war and the fight against climate change. the union needs to implement open strategic autonomy in order to achieve more balanced, reciprocal relations based on fair competition and the defence of our own interests. i therefore welcome the new instruments on trade defence and critical raw materials. but i think it is necessary, mr dombrovskis, to develop a mechanism for monitoring foreign investment leaving the european union. the unity, consistency and coordination of our relations with beijing are also essential. i therefore believe that it is essential to achieve such coordination under the responsibility of the person responsible: our high representative, mr borrell, whom i congratulate on his work.
president, mr high representative, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it has of course been known for some time that china is a dictatorship with massive human rights violations. meanwhile, the situation in china is not improving at all. we see that in europe too. china intimidates and threatens journalists and engages in large-scale espionage activities. and what about china's aggressive attitude towards taiwan? the stupidest thing we can do right now is let the western world play us against each other. unfortunately, president macron fell into this trap by distancing himself from the us on taiwan. that's very unwise. transatlantic cooperation is what is needed, but also investment to reduce our dependence on china, as well as clear agreements on the protection of our vital infrastructure. in conclusion, a specific question to the commissioner: when is the new eu envoy for religious freedom going to beijing? he'll have plenty to talk about there.
madam president, i wish to thank the commissioner for being here. so the european year of youth was obviously very necessary. i mean, if we speak about the future of europe, or even the future of our european institutions, we need to make sure that the youth is engaged and that they participate also in the decision—making process. i think a lot of good things happened in relation to the european year of youth, but what’s also very necessary is that our processes and engagements are inclusive. so i would like to touch upon the participation of the youth coming from the overseas countries and territories. i know that there is the oct youth network. i think that’s a very good step. but we also need to have a strategy to structurally engage the youth from the overseas countries and territories. so my question to you would be: what is your strategy going to be to make sure that they are engaged and that they participate, and what are you also going to do to make sure that they can participate on a structural and equal level in the education programmes we have, like, for example, erasmus+?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, council, commissioner, the un recently concluded that the libyan coast guard, which is heavily funded by the eu, is deeply involved in slavery, sexual exploitation, human trafficking, detention and torture of migrants. but migrants who managed to escape this horror in libya are pulled back by their perpetrators and returned to hell. and ngos who save their lives and bring them to safety are obstructed by the italian government with the approval of the eu. in tunisia, president saied has fuelled violence and hatred against migrants, making them flee the country. and they do, hoping for protection in europe. the response of italy and the eu? making saied block the escape route for migrants. the cost of the eu’s ways of combating irregular migration is high – human rights, human dignity, and even human lives. but the eu is willing to pay that price, giving up any pretension of upholding its values at the borders. the external borders are common borders and this comes with a common responsibility to share the numbers of asylum seekers and ensure that people can flee persecution. they must be rescued and protected. and when some of my epp colleagues call for solidarity, they often mean fences, deterrents, criminalisation of humanitarian aid. that is not solidarity, that’s being partners in crime. if we don’t comply with human rights, what can we say to president saied, to the libyan coast guard? let’s turn credible on our european values, because they only have value when we apply them to refugees as well.
mr president, madam minister, commissioner, you have said it. the key ideas of this debate are in the title itself: solidarity and salvation. the s&d group has been calling for a mandatory european maritime rescue mechanism for years. i repeat, compulsory. 26 000 people have died in the mediterranean since 2013, according to the iom, many of them children. this reflects the failure of european migration policy. solidarity and rescue must be accompanied by human dignity. i would ask the italian government and the other governments not to forget that migrants are people, regardless of their creed or skin colour. therefore, they must be treated with humanity and respect. ladies and gentlemen, from words to deeds. we do not need to invent anything, because we have already taken steps in the right direction in the past: operation sophia, the malta declaration or the 20 measures proposed by commissioner johansson. but we have to go further. we must conclude the new pact on migration and asylum, and strengthen the instruments for regular migration and cooperation with the neighbours on the southern shore of the mediterranean.
(the president cut off the speaker's microphone) ... the walls in the mediterranean, as manfred weber did yesterday, are a veritable monument to demagogy. how do you want to build your walls in the sea? giorgia meloni campaigned on naval blockades, then discovered that when people at sea can't be blocked, they have to be saved. the commission has already made a number of proposals. how do we take back control of immigration? with responsibility and humanity, we say, with walls and inventing an emergency every day, says the extreme right in italy and the rest of europe. and just today an italian minister spoke of ethnic substitution in relation to immigration, a real shame. the president of the republic, mr mattarella, called the european dublin rules 'prehistoric'. we too, but it is the allies of the current italian government who have prevented dublin from being reformed in recent years, from morawiecki to orbán. because, you see, when you evoke solidarity at european summits and then invasion at home, you become a prisoner of your own propaganda. more than walls or open doors, we need common policies to control and manage. instead of peddling cheap demagogy, we should all explain, as members of this parliament, that we are working for real solutions, that the pact on migration and asylum is one of those solutions. more coordination, more effective relocations and returns, solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility: i would have liked to have seen these words in manfred weber's interview in the corriere della sera, instead of chasing nationalist propaganda. we are not chasing after populists and their hasty and illusory answers. it is time for courage and european solutions.
mr president, not only is it obstructing rescue operations at sea, laying the groundwork for massacres like that at cutro, but the meloni government is also seeking to abolish special protection for migrants, which means criminalizing the ten thousand people who are persecuted and tortured in their own countries. the italian right-wing government is in good company in violating the founding principles of the european union. i am referring to the rejections at sea by greece with the consent of frontex. i am referring to the violence and arbitrary detentions in hungary, bulgaria and croatia on the balkan route. and finally, there is this inhuman idea of building border walls with european union funds. but weber, the epp president, the german who promoted this idea, should know that when it comes to human beings, walls are not built, they are torn down. we need to save lives at sea, we need legal entries, humanitarian corridors, a mandatory mechanism for sharing between countries. we need guaranteed access to the asylum and reception procedure. we need genuine cooperation with third countries and not the shameful agreement with libya. what is the point of declaring a state of emergency for a phenomenon which is structural? forty years of emergency? it's actually a diversionary tactic. talking about welcome and integration is the only way to turn migration into an opportunity.
mr president, yesterday the epp president, mr weber, said that we must be prepared to build fences and walls with the european budget, and thus promote a phantom of false solidarity with italy. words that are baffling and unacceptable. it seems that erdoğan, orbán are the models of the italian and european right. this is outrageous. the president of the italian republic, mr mattarella, is right. we need to go beyond the prehistoric rules governing migration in europe, we need responsibility. no member state can tackle this issue alone; italy is the first frontier of the mediterranean and cannot be left alone. but it is the nationalist right in europe itself that wants to leave it alone, rather than allies. we in italy will oppose very strongly the so-called "cutro" decree law, which affects special protection in such a way as to create more irregularities, foment a social conflict and hide the difficulties of the government, for example in the spending of european funds. we will not allow this mess. (the speaker agrees to reply to a 'blue card' speech)
blue-card response. – the state of emergency declared by prime minister meloni is just another way to hide the difficulties of the government: as they are unable to provide sustainable solutions, they declare a state of emergency and they try to distract the public opinion – and also the european opinion – from the difficulties of the government to achieve the real results we need from them. so to spend the amount of resources that we have from the nextgenerationeu and to pursue a policy in favour of the purchasing power of italian families and to sustain the economy. they act against vulnerable groups because they don’t have any other argument.
mr president, this debate has a very good title: the need for european solidarity in saving lives in the mediterranean, particularly in italy. there, as i have said, the government has declared a state of emergency on several occasions. the flow of illegal immigrants has been unsustainable for a long time. it's going to be an annual ritual. as soon as spring comes, the southern european coast begins to be flooded. in italy, there are already more than 31 000 this year. the netherlands too is facing an unsustainable mass immigration. the cost of asylum in the netherlands last year was more than eur 1.5 billion. solidarity with these countries is indeed needed. i think that this should not be done by making immigration more attractive, by legalising it or by encouraging it, or by bringing in more boats. but we need a radical change, a radically different policy. ban the ngo boats and allow asylum applications from third countries. anyone who enters europe without permission is sent back and never re-enters. then the boats won't come. it is also important that the commission should be able to take account of the situation in the mediterranean.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, sometimes there are things you just don't understand. for example, if someone dumps a litre of frying oil, he is entitled to a fine. but the opposite is true of companies. they are allowed to dump tons of poison into our environment every year. and that includes pfas, a collection of substances that we don't even know how harmful they are. only if it is shown that a particular pfas is harmful will it be banned. it's too late. when do we step in and ban these substances as a group? not until it affects us personally? if it's found in our bodies or in our children's? i have news for you. it's probably been in there for a long time. it is sad that in some regions it is better not to breast-feed your child because of the too high concentrations of pfas, sometimes more than ten times the norm. and in the meantime, we dare not call for a general ban. i was also surprised by an interview with two top women from a chemical company, published last week in the algemeen dagblad. they said, referring to pfas, that anything you take in excess eventually becomes toxic. how cynical can you be? what are we waiting for? apply the precautionary principle and ban pfas.
president, ladies and gentlemen, criticism of the digital euro is growing from all sides. that's very understandable too. what problem does this new concept actually solve? is there a problem? it is clear, in any case, that the ecb is gaining a huge position of power with this digital euro. for example, it could set negative interest rates. it could even make the euro programmable, in other words, set you to spend your money only on things that the government finds acceptable. my question to the commission is: how do you feel about that? do you see these risks? and what about the guarantee of privacy? and to think that the recent analysis carried out by the econ committee shows that there is no market for the digital euro at all. i would say: let's take the objections seriously and end this project. the risks and uncertainties are simply too great.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). we didn't know, and you didn't see, but it's having disastrous effects. i'll give you an example too. the limburg region, where i live, is one of the greenest and most beautiful regions in the netherlands, with beautiful green pastures and wonderful cycling landscapes. but in that same region people live on average 11 months less than in the rest of the netherlands. this is due to air pollution from industry and road transport. that is not only the case in my country, but in all of europe. every year, 300,000 people die earlier because of air pollution. so that's why we in the eu are also making legislation so that cars emit less and ultimately no more. the auto industry's treachery is in the annals. but we're still feeling the effects. many of these polluting cars still drive our streets. what we learned from dieselgate is that the auto industry is doing everything it can to circumvent regulations in the interest of people and the environment. let this be a lesson we never forget. trust is good, but control is better.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the universal declaration of human rights states that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. but in many places in the world, our community is far from equal. even worse, being who we are or loving who we want can put us into jail or can lead us to being sentenced to death. this new law in uganda is another example of a law that criminalises people for being who they are. it’s a de facto blanket ban on being anything but straight or cis, with death as the ultimate penalty. we cannot stand by and not recognise that this limited view on what or who a person can be is, in many places in the world, including uganda, a result of colonialism and is currently also promoted and funded by western evangelical churches. this is why we in europe should also take our responsibility and why i’m very happy that tomorrow we will call on the european commission to establish an eu strategy for the universal decriminalisation of homosexuality and transgender identity, to ensure that everyone in the world will be able to live and love freely. know that we in the european parliament will continue standing by the side of the lgbt community all over the world. we will fight for you when your rights are under attack, like in uganda or ghana or the united states. but we will also celebrate with you when progress is made, like this past weekend in the cook islands. because when we all stand together, a world where all human beings will truly be born free and equal in dignity and rights can be just around the corner.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, commissioner, the detention of education activist matiullah wesa is yet another display of the crackdown on all freedoms in afghanistan under the taliban’s rule. especially for women and girls, the country has turned into a real nightmare. banned from education, banned from the labour market and de facto erased from public life. while this should ring all our alarm bells, the eu’s support and commitment is still falling short. afghan human rights defenders cannot leave the country because member states refuse to issue visas. asylum claims are rejected, leaving people in europe in limbo while they can’t go back, of course. in this and so many other areas, we could and should do so much more. last week, the un special rapporteur on afghanistan reminded us of the banner we have attached on our building, saying that the support of ukrainians will take as long as needed – and rightfully so. but why not make the same commitment to afghans? the afghans need our concrete support. let us not forget them.
mr president, here we are again to discuss the horrible situation of women and girls in afghanistan – and it’s endless. what the taliban has done is introduce gender apartheid. that’s what it is. under this regime, women and girls will never be safe and secure. we can absolutely not allow, the international community cannot allow, to recognise the taliban and its regime, because we cannot bow down for this kind of regime. women and girls in afghanistan are not safe to follow education. what can we do about that? i’ve seen denmark and sweden already introducing good examples to introduce special humanitarian visas for women and girls, and this is exactly what the european union and all the member states need to do directly to make sure that these women and girls can work and build on their future, that they can educate themselves, that they can educate the next generation, and that we can protect fundamental rights. we should not abandon them, and i’m asking the european commission urgently to see what you can do about introducing special humanitarian visas for women and girls as quickly as possible.
author. madam president, nigeria has a secular constitution that, theoretically, protects freedom of religion, but it also has a law against blasphemy imposed in colonial times and which has not been abolished. in addition, 12 northern states have sharia law, which means that expressing your religious beliefs can cost you your life. this is the case of musician sharif aminu, accused of composing and disseminating an allegedly blasphemous song. for this he faces the death penalty and his family is being persecuted and harassed. in more than seventy countries around the world, criminal laws are being enforced or new regulations are being introduced to punish blasphemy, apostasy, religious defamation and conversion. and the truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that you do not have to go very far to find these countries: spain, italy or germany are some examples of european union member states that maintain criminal laws against blasphemy or religious insult. in my country, citizens like willy toledo have faced court proceedings for shitting on god and the virgin. inquisition in the 21st century. i demand the immediate release of sharif aminu and all those accused of crimes related to religion and blasphemy. but i also ask, once again, that we put aside hypocrisy and preach by example by abolishing this kind of regulation in europe, because religion can never be above our rights, even by shitting on god.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. yes, nigeria is the largest country in africa. nigeria is the seventh most populous country in the world. nigeria is an important economic partner for us and a major target of our development cooperation. but those in nigeria who are running a system of injustice like the one that sent this young man to death row should know that the european union will not shrug its shoulders in the future to acknowledge that such conditions exist. this is the lesson of the geopolitical developments of our time. that's why it's so important that we address nigeria clearly: it is not a crime at all to have a religious belief and to express that religious belief. because that's part of religious freedom. then, without a trial, without a public hearing, without legal counsel and so on, not only punishing someone, but even punishing him with death, wanting to take his life, imposing a death sentence, that is completely superficial and unacceptable. this is what this european parliament is opposed to.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, nigeria deserves a better future. it has a population of 215 million. half of its population are less than 18 years old. it also has immense mineral wealth, like oil, and human and economic potential. nevertheless, three major problems hinder nigeria’s development: widespread corruption, a ruling party that has extensive control over public life and manipulated the recent presidential elections. finally, part of the country suffers from radical islamism and its most extreme expressions. the death sentence on yahaya sharif-aminu, that was passed by a sharia court on the grounds of alleged blasphemy, symbolises the backsliding of the most populous country in africa that has a leading role in the continent. we have to send a strong message to the nigerian leadership: such practices are unacceptable and hinder the further development of our relations.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in nigeria is not further complicated by the fact that the case of sharif aminu is a serious one. i hope with you that the supreme court will declare the blasphemy laws unconstitutional and in violation of international conventions. the ruling could have far-reaching implications, including for the many christians who are threatened by sharia law in nigeria. in 2022, an estimated 13 christians were killed every day. the very existence of blasphemy laws encourages mass violence against people accused of blasphemy, often before police and the judiciary can intervene. a shocking example of this is the murder of deborah yakubu last year. i call on the commission to convey our concerns about the blasphemy laws to the nigerian authorities. perhaps the eu special envoy for religious freedom can play a significant role in this too.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. a year and a half ago, the council of the european union approved a regulation establishing nine joint ventures under the 'horizon europe' programme. this makes sense because the union, together with the member states, with the private sector, is to carry out research, innovation within these european partnerships. the horizontal scope is important: end of 2031, eight years later, and a budget of 10 billion by 2027. of course, the eu budget plus a similar amount from the member states. the nine projects are: the single european sky air traffic management research joint undertaking 3 (sesar 3), which is air traffic; the clean aviation joint undertaking (ihi), which is the health innovation initiative joint undertaking; the clean hydrogen joint undertaking (clean h2); the key digital technologies joint undertaking (kdt); the closed-loop biotechnology europe joint undertaking; the european railway project joint undertaking (iteu); and the european space and energy research joint undertaking (eerj) and the european space and energy research joint undertaking (eerj). these reports reiterated the court of auditors' opinion both on the positive conclusions and on certain deficiencies that were found during the internal audit. i'll go over the specific issues that are in my reports. so the question of iter and the development of thermonuclear energy. we remember the strike in november 2021. the reasons were worsening working conditions, weaknesses in senior management, disturbances in decision-making, lack of social dialogue, problems with transparency and the large-scale use of external staff. in response to this situation, the joint undertaking has taken a number of actions to improve the working environment and the well-being of its employees. it is worrying that russia, which is an iter member, is obliged to deliver several components for iter projects to the iter assembly site in cadarache, france, which risks further delays and increased costs for iter projects. when it comes to a health innovation venture, there are problems with ex post audit. in one case, the auditors found a system error related to personnel costs, which resulted from the use of incorrect hourly rates. and finally, the large-scale computing joint venture. two points: the contribution of the private members of eur 420 million will not be achieved until the end of the grant-funded project. secondly, the joint undertaking also lacks credible procedures for certifying and approving non-cash contributions. it is the only joint undertaking that does not have a strategic implementation plan to obtain input from other members.
the rapporteur, mrs president, ladies and gentlemen, greetings to the commissioner and greetings to the council. the european union is the world's largest donor, and also the largest provider of development aid. however, there is no such perception. it is necessary to give visibility to what the european union does in terms of humanitarian aid, in terms of development aid. it is a question of justice, but it is also a question of having the geopolitical european union that we want. the european development fund was intergovernmental. the european union had this fund outside the union budget, but parliament gave it a discharge. and that's one of the reasons why in 2021, we only made payments with the european development fund and there was no authorization. from 2021, with the new multiannual financial framework, fortunately and always we support it the european development fund has been integrated into the multiannual financial framework. africa is one of the biggest beneficiaries of this fund. it is the largest recipient of budget support from the european union, followed by the european neighbourhood, asia and latin america. the european development fund and the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument, which has some eur 80 billion and in which this fund is integrated, must be linked to a strategy for africa. they must also be linked to a strategy for latin america. and in this area, the mercosur agreement is an agreement that would be very important. the european development fund and the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument should also seek to defend values such as democracy, peace, the protection of human life and dignity, freedom and the rule of law. however, in our relations with these countries, we must use the word 'cooperation' as a key word. we're not giving anyone lessons. we'll try to cooperate. to achieve good cooperation, we should also and must require planning. i am of the opinion that, for the future, we should ask countries for multiannual plans, investment plans that correspond to the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework to look for synergies, projects that should be cross-border, projects that could and should also be important for the european union and aligned with the objectives of climate change and digital. education is essential, vocational training, improvement of skills. we have to give quality of life to the young people in that space and that is why the bet on education is absolutely essential. by attracting small and mediumsized enterprises, with private investment, we will also achieve the objective of fighting poverty. and so, in this sense, it was essential and important that subsidies could also be linked to loans, that the european fund for sustainable development could be working together with the european development fund to get the link between loans and subsidies, so that we can have projects where private people also get involved, so that we can create wealth, to reduce the poverty that unfortunately exists on our planet. over 1.2 billion people live in extreme poverty, and our funds also have this objective: to reduce poverty on a global scale.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, president of the european court of auditors, i am glad to have the possibility to represent the council in this important debate on the implementation of the budget 2021. let me begin by thanking you all for your comprehensive work on this discharge and also for your first intervention here today. as you know, on march 14th, the council adopted its recommendation that discharge be given to the commission. it was not a decision taken lightly. member states’ representatives had quite similar concerns to those expressed in the european parliament’s report. as one can read in the recommendation, the council was concerned that for the third year in a row, the court of auditors opinion on expenditure was unfavourable. also, the overall error continues to be above the materiality threshold. however, a clear majority of the member states still consider it appropriate to grant discharge to the commission for 2021, thus recognising the efforts of the management and control authorities, both at the commission and the member states level. the council stresses the achieved reduction in error rates and ensure the effective management of eu funds. we need simpler, more transparent and more predictable legislation and implementation measures should remain a top priority. however, this should not mean lowering the standards needed for accountability. also, the assessment of the eu budget’s performance remains a priority because it is measured on the true value delivered by the eu and its citizens. last but not least, what makes this year’s annual report special is the first audit of the expenditure related to the recovery and resilience facility. this is just a taste of things to come as it covers the only rrf payment made in 2021. we are looking forward to the reporting from the court. let me end my intervention by stressing that the council attaches great importance to this discharge exercise. it is important that the eu funds are used in accurate way with the rules that the expenditure respects the principle of sound financial management. and as i said before, that the eu citizens know that the eu money makes a difference. thank you so very much for the attention. i am looking forward to the following debate.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear president murphy, dear minister, dear jan gregor, honourable members, first, i would like to thank for this perfect timing having a plenary debate on the discharge 21 at the europe day 23. second, i would like to thank, on behalf of the commission, the european parliament for the highly valuable and constructive exchanges throughout this discharge procedure, and indeed it was a procedure. i would like to thank, in particular the committee on budgetary control and the discharge rapporteurs madam hohlmeier and mr lenaers for preparing the discharge report. 2021 was a remarkable year for the union budget. the european funds played a critical role to help citizens, companies, regions and member states to overcome the covid-19 pandemic and its consequences, in this, also, the european budget is only 1% of the european gdp. in 2021, we started borrowing operations to finance nextgenerationeu, to create a claim and with record demand. major progress was also made in 2021 in setting up the recovery and resilience facility. despite the very challenging environment and the flexibility introduced in the management of some programmes, the commission was able to deliver on its policy objectives and respond to multiple challenges. in this context, let me briefly outline the commission’s actions on some of the key political priorities of the discharge report. 2021 was, as i said, that the first year of implementation of the recovery and resilience facility for the member states and the commission. a robust control framework was set up to protect the union’s financial interests. it was tailored to the unique nature of the facility as a performance-based instrument. we will take adequate actions to improve the control systems where necessary and to increase transparency on beneficiaries of the funds in line with the regulatory framework and the recent agreement reached on repowereu. moving on to the rule of law situation in the member states, the commission continues to monitor information from all relevant sources to identify possible relevant breaches of the principles of the rule of law. the ongoing conditionality procedure against hungary shows that the commission is assuming its responsibilities. our objective with the general regime of conditionality is that the union budget is no longer at risk in cases when breaches of the rule of law principles affect or risk affecting the union’s financial interests. we hope to achieve this as soon as possible through adequate reforms in hungary. turning now to the digitalisation of systems for monitoring, reporting and the audit of european union funding. as you know, the commission has proposed in the revision of the financial regulation to improve the interoperability of data on recipients and beneficial owners of companies benefiting from union funding. if adopted by the co-legislators, this should contribute to more transparency on recipients and increase the efficiency and quality of our controls and audits because if you have it tools in place, the traceability of actions is, as you know, much better and more effective and efficient. furthermore, the commission has proposed to extend the scope of the early detection and exclusion system to funds under shared management and under the recovery and resilience facility. finally, i would also like to highlight our actions to mainstream horizontal priorities such climate, biodiversity or gender equality in the union budget. the commission attaches utmost importance to this work. important progress was been has been achieved fully in line with and even exceeding the timelines and milestones agreed by the co-legislators in the interinstitutional agreement. ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, i would like to emphasise that the commission upholds the highest standards of transparency and accountability. the commission remains committed to ensuring that the european union budget and nextgenerationeu are spent in line with the applicable rules and deliver results on the ground.
president of the court of auditors. – madam president, honourable members, minister, commissioner hahn, it’s an honour and a pleasure to be here today on this special day. every year on 9 may, we celebrate europe day and while the creation of the eu has provided peace and unity for its citizens for a long time, it’s almost unimaginable that the war of aggression in ukraine continues today on our continent. in march of this year, my colleague maerk opiola represented the european court of auditors as a member of a delegation that visited the ukraine, together with commissioner hahn and ville itälä, the director-general of olaf. they met with representatives of the ukrainian parliament, the government, as well as the ukrainian supreme audit office. the purpose of the visit was aimed at boosting fraud prevention and budgetary protection, but fundamentally to show our continued solidarity with ukraine. during the visit, we reassured colleagues of our continued efforts to support them through various actions, including the current secondment of five ukrainian auditors to the european court from the ukrainian supreme audit office. the annual report is the court’s main product, and it contributes to combating challenges to the eu budget and plays an important role in improving accountability across eu policy areas. it covers the reliability of the commission accounts and also the legality and regularity of eu revenue and expenditure. as we have previously presented the main findings of this report at the plenary session in october last year, today i would just like to give you a very brief overview of our key messages and offer you a forward-looking perspective on the eu budget landscape. today, i am supported by my colleague, jan gregor, who was the court’s member for the annual report for 2022 onwards. so, as in previous years for the eu accounts, we have adopted a clean opinion. for revenue, as for previous years, we concluded that the overall error was not material. this time for the first time – and i think it was alluded to by the minister earlier – we had two separate opinions, one on mff and one on the rrf spending. so, for eu budget spending, we found that the overall level of irregularities increased significantly from last year, reaching 3 % in 2021, and we estimated that it is 4.7 % for high-risk spending, which makes up a clear majority of 63 % of our audit population. so, given the widespread nature of the problems that we uncovered – basically, the pervasiveness of the errors – we gave an adverse opinion for the third year in a row. if we zoom in for a moment, we estimate that the level of error in ‘cohesion’ is 3.6 %, and our upcoming 2022 annual report will include for the first time the impact of cohesion payments made to member states during the covid-19 period. the rrf represents the eu’s main financial response to the challenge of the covid-19 pandemic. its spending was covered by our statement of assurance for the first time. as you know, the fundamental difference between budget spending under mff and the rrf is that in the latter the eu makes payments to member states after it assesses that they have fulfilled the objectives – the milestones and targets – agreed up front in their national recovery plans. unlike for other eu funding programmes, investment projects’ compliance with eu and national rules is not a condition for payment under the rrf. we have looked at the rrf at the early stages in its life cycle. for 2021, there was only one payment under the facility, being eur 11.5 billion to spain for 52 reform milestones, and we were able to examine this payment in full. we concluded that overall the impact of the one milestone, which was not satisfactorily fulfilled, was not material so we were able to give a clean opinion based on the assessment of the commission, but with the caveat that the respect of national and eu rules still had to be checked later on. so as i said, this continues to be a key element of our work and probably will be for the next months and years. in march of this year, we published a special report on the commission’s control system for the rrf, which built on the work of our 2021 annual report. we found that the commission has limited verified information as to whether rrf projects comply with eu and national rules. this is of particular concern for us, as in our 2021 annual report, we provide an error rate of 4.1 % in ‘cohesion’, which funds similar projects as the investment element of the rrf. we therefore highlight and bring to the attention of the discharge authorities an assurance and accountability gap in protecting the eu’s financial interests. in terms of the facility itself, to date, eur 153 billion has been paid out to member states, a total of eur 106 billion in grants and eur 47 billion in loans, of which almost eur 57 billion represents pre-financing. so while we are almost halfway through the eligibility period for projects under the facility, this represents just around one-fifth of the overall funds available for disbursement. furthermore, to date, five member states have yet to receive any payment and another six member states have only received pre-financing. we should, however, be mindful of the capacity of member states and their ability to spend eu financial resources efficiently and effectively. in this context, we note that eur 127 billion from the structural funds for the period 2014–2020 are still to be used and absorption for the 2021–2027 budget is yet to start in a meaningful way. looking forward, i can inform you that our annual report for 2022 will have somewhat of a different face to it. firstly, again as the minister mentioned, it will provide a greater overview of the rrf as we have 13 payments for eur 47 billion which have been made to 11 member states in 2022 in our sample. in addition, as we move from the close of one programming period to the beginning of the next, we will have a clearer picture about how the 2014–2020 mff has performed. so, as we come to the end of this onerous but very important discharge procedure, i look forward to the continued excellent cooperation between the eca and the budgetary control committee and the various rapporteurs and also our respectful working relationship with the european commission.
the commission shall submit to the european parliament and to the council a report on the implementation of this decision. president. - the debate is closed. unfortunately, democracy is in decline in the world. the democratic progress of the last 32 years is measured by several major institutions that conduct global democracy surveys. when democracy backs down, it creates a vacuum that is filled with populism and extremism. as democracy declines, so does opposition to gender equality. the violation of women's rights comes first. previous victories are lost, such as safe abortion, access to education, or the ability to earn a living. we know that the women's movement is a crucial force for peace, while women are excluded from peace negotiations and foreign policy, despite the fact that women and children are the hardest hit by war and conflict. shouldn't that instead be a reason to strengthen women's representation at all levels? the eu should pursue a feminist foreign policy in all relevant contexts, a policy that works to strengthen the rights, representation and resources of girls and women. it has been, and always will be, one of my obvious priorities. we must stop the backsliding on women's and girls' rights that is happening right now. the eu's action is crucial in this respect. gender equality is a self-evident goal, but it is also a prerequisite for peace and democracy.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the erasmus+ programme, along with a number of other programmes promoting cultural exchange, is the one most familiar to many people in the eu. it is important that these programmes reach even more people and focus more on the issues of diversity and inclusion. the eu must involve all people, especially marginalised groups and our young people. but with the announcement of the year of youth being too short, little could be done. the commission should therefore learn from these mistakes and continue to invest more in european youth.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. – madam president, commission, council, as rapporteur for femm opinion on the discharge 2021 for the eu general budget, section three, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for including the concerns of the femm committee into the resolution. the application of gender mainstreaming in the eu budgetary procedure is still weak and there is a lack of gender equality spending targets and indicators in the union’s programmes. we are far away from real gender budgeting, although we of course acknowledge the efforts of the commission. we need concrete improvements of gender mainstreaming objectives and gender-disaggregated data if we want to achieve a gender equal budget. and still we need more means for the daphne programme against gender-based violence. regarding the discharge 2021 of the european institute for gender equality (eige), i strongly support the assessment to grant the director of the eige the discharge and the explicit recommendation in our resolution to allocate more staff to the institute because eige plays a key role in the promotion of gender equality in the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear commissioner, members, the most important thing i think has already been said about the importance of the commission and rrf discharge, so i will concentrate on the agencies. i am really hopeful that in the future we can further enhance the effectiveness of the discharge and make it an even more binding tool. this applies, of course, for all discharges. ultimately, it always concerns the safeguarding of taxpayers’ money. regarding the discharge of eu agencies in 2021, the agencies have paid close attention to proper financial management, staff policies, prevention of conflicts of interest and improvement of transparency. the year 2021 was not an easy one for eu agencies due to the covid-19 pandemic. it forced them to learn and adapt to a changed world. however, they did succeed well, which in my opinion demonstrates good resilience, which is truly needed in today’s world. but in the future, we should continue to benefit from good practices such as investments made to facilitate digital work. as we have learned, new working methods can also bring savings to the eu budget and to the agencies. and in this regard, it is also crucial to continually improve the monitoring of agencies’ own efficiency with key performance indicators, the so-called kpis, that are playing a very important role.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, commissioners, madam minister, we are debating discharge and i must say that i am disappointed with the final form of the commission's discharge report. i would like to thank the court of auditors for always presenting in the committee on budgetary control with great accuracy all the things that are not good and we must recognize them when they are not good. why am i disappointed? because in the compromise negotiations it was very difficult to reach a text that was as close as possible to reality. a lot of subjectivity on the part of the ppe. you know the double language: 'we criticise the commission, we criticise the commission presidency, but when we pass, let's pass'. in my view, the commission should have remained correct. personally, i wanted a delay in the discharge, because we have to be firm. i understand that 2021 has been a complicated year for everyone, but the lack of transparency and the fact that the president of the commission has not answered any of our questions, has not come to the commission regarding the procurement contracts, has left an impression throughout the european union of extremely, extremely high mistrust of the commission. he also did not reply to the ombudsman, who issued a negative report. and then why do we have to rush to do discharge management? i'm sad that it is, and i think we don't need to do formal management discharges, and i think we need to learn from this. the european commission must understand that all the instruments and all the projects, programmes, measures that it brings in - yes, it's good to be innovative. the spending of public money must be subject to the control of the court of auditors. i said this in the cont committee and i repeat it: the money does not belong to the european commission and we must have control and we, the european parliament, because we represent the citizens and the citizens are asking, since the pandemic (in all countries, not only in my country), i think they are asking who made the contracts, why did they do it at those prices, why is there no transparency, why were we not given the contracts. therefore, i am sad to say that this report deserves to be postponed. i was also rapporteur for my group on the european development fund and i would like to thank you this time for the cooperation and the compromises we have reached. obviously, i have emphasized the development of poor areas, the support of small farmers, because we have this main task of ensuring cohesion in the european union market, in the internal market. i regret to say, and i will end with this: authority is extremely eroded if we don't have transparency and if we don't have communication. the commission's authority is important to the european project. we can't answer to the citizens and then we certainly lose credibility.
i would remind you, mr president, that it is against the rules of procedure to display pictures or documents in the chamber.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, first off, i want to thank the secretariat and the left staff for all the work they’ve done on these files. i know it’s not easy, so thank you very much. i won’t be supporting discharge on the following institutions and agencies. in relation to the commission, the eca issued again an adverse opinion to the commission, which is parallel to the long-term negative evaluation of the left group of the way the commission implements and manages the eu budget. so i can’t support that. in relation to the council, as you know, the refusal of cooperation in the discharge procedure has led parliament to refuse discharge to the council for many years. the decision to postpone the discharge was unanimous in cont. numerous media outlets reported the increase in the budget of the president of the european council, and in particular its travel budget, which exploded compared to its predecessors, showing a preference for expensive and polluting means of transport. my group has tabled an amendment on this, which i hope you’ll support. in relation to the eu-lisa agency, because of the eca’s qualified opinion based on several payments which were non-compliant, i can’t support the discharge. in relation to the easo, now the euaa: because of serious claims of misconduct on recruitment by the agency’s new hierarchy, which led to the opening of an olaf investigation. on the ihi joint undertaking: because of recurrent governance and transparency issues. in relation to f4e and iter joint undertaking: because of regular concerns about delays and increase of costs in the iter project, which points to serious problems in the governance of the joint undertakings. concerning frontex – despite the big group being in favour of the discharge – i, along with my group, will continue our strong criticism of the agency, which, despite some changes, needs deep reform to tackle its structural reforms. it should be noted that one olaf report was closed last year revealing serious misconduct and mismanagement taking place in 2021, exactly the financial year the discharge will be voted on. i cannot support discharge of this agency.
madam president, please. at the end of last year, the worst corruption scandal in brussels erupted. the vice-president of the european parliament's left wing has been remanded in custody. search of the european parliament offices, seizure of hundreds of thousands of euros of corruption money, suspension of immunity of further left-wing meps, and then placing them in pre-trial detention. members of the european parliament's families were seen running through the streets of brussels with suitcases packed with euro coins, evading police who were trying to arrest them. then, new corruption cases were uncovered around the european commission building. employees of various government departments accepted expensive airline tickets from the very people they were supposed to be checking. corruption, corruption and corruption. these incidents occurred in 2021. the proposals currently on their table concern the eu's economy in 2021. there's not a word in these documents about corruption in brussels. ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is fooling the citizens of europe by ignoring and denying the outrageous cases of corruption in brussels. such proposals cannot be supported with good feeling.
madam president, dear colleagues, i would like to say a few words on the discharge of the recovery and resilience facility, which is part of the discharge of 2021. and it is for the first time that this happens, because in 2021, the largest package of economic support that we ever created at european union level, entered into force. and because it is so large, you have to make sure that money is well spent, that the money really reaches the beneficiaries that it is intended for and that the expected results are being achieved. the recovery and resilience facility is a new element in terms of set-up, in terms of functioning, in terms of financing, and it’s performance-based and money is being paid based on the achievement of milestones and targets. this is why it is so important that adequate control mechanisms are being put in place. it was following the pressure of the european parliament that the commission has finally put forward a methodology to evaluate milestones and targets and to make partial payments. and this is important because the one single payment that we saw in the year 2021, the european court of auditors has told us that one milestone and target for the one single payment made in 2021 for spain, one milestone and target was not sufficiently met. and let me say very clearly, based on the current methodology, the spanish government should not have received that payment in full. it is good that we have this methodology now. i also welcome the recommendations of the report asking the commission to further develop this methodology, and i call on the commission to apply a strict approach and particularly equal standards to all member states. and, last point from my side, madam president, the biggest 100 beneficiaries in each member state have to be published, but we are calling for parliament to be given access to all lists of beneficiaries from the recovery and resilience facility.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the eu's development work is important both to us and to our partners in the world. cooperation has helped to enable more people to escape poverty and improve their living conditions. but to maintain the mantle of leadership, we must live up to our promises and use the means that have been decided. it's a question of legitimacy and credibility. i am very concerned that many organisations are now being cut off from funding. i see this especially in sweden, where the right-wing government has severely cut aid and support to civil society. the right wing attacks non-profits at a time when we need them most this is totally unacceptable! the eu must therefore continue to push for development work focusing on equality, education and climate change. without cooperation with non-profit organisations, the eu's development work will lose momentum.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, once again we have succeeded in including in the discharge report on the commission a clear recommendation on palestinian schoolbooks. we ask that the european public be given a critical look at the issue of these textbooks, because they are full of anti-semitism. but once again we are dealing with the s&d, the greens and the left, who are trying to cover up the anti-semitic facts with an amendment. and once again we are faced with a commission which so far shows no willingness to act on this point, while the eu pretends to be contributing to the peace process. a laudable endeavor, but let's start here, make sure that education is good, that children learn to respect others instead of hating, that children no longer have to learn math by counting victims that you can make in a suicide terrorist act. that is why i am calling on the european commission today: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. and as far as the general budget, the annual accounts for 2021, are concerned, the error rate is still clearly too high. 3%, that's more than 1% above the limit. we are therefore not in a position to grant discharge now.
madam president, thank you to the commission and to the eca for being here. i’ve got one minute and a half; there’s too much to talk about, but we do absolutely need to talk about parliament’s own voluntary pension scheme. closed now, but financed from allowances that were meant for office supplies and reportedly investing in the arms, tobacco, mining and fossil fuel industries. ‘what’s not to like?’, you could say. why do we need to talk about that right now? well, because it’s situation is dramatic financially. we’re talking about a eur 310 million gap. so, for the translators, yes, i said 310 million. and because the leadership of this parliament is set to take a decision on the scheme’s future soon, the parliament’s budgetary control committee has repeatedly called on parliament's bureau to find a feasible, legal and fair solution to the problem that we have here. now, the study on this that i commissioned concluded that while parliament can’t completely get rid of the fund from one day to the next, what it can do is take steps that prioritise taxpayers over scheme members. and that’s what the bureau needs to do now: stand up to the scheme members, some of them extremely active and vocal behind the scenes. some of them, ironically, called nigel farage and marine le pen. now, at the end of the day, we’re talking here about a supplementary extra pension scheme for all of its beneficiaries. let’s be honest, it’s 2023, and most people in europe don’t even dare to dream of a steady income when they retire, let alone at the levels that this fund currently guarantees.
blue-card question. – as the co-president of the anti-racism and diversity intergroup, i first of all would like to put forward a request, dear chair, because what i am observing here now in a couple of interventions is that the violence against women is now linked with migration and people with a migrant background and islam. i do think this falls into the category of hate speech, and i think at least this kind of speech can foster aggressiveness and attacks towards people, for example, with a migrant background. and that really needs to stop here, dear chair. so please take a look into this matter. please make sure that you analyse very well where the hate speech happened here in a couple of interventions. we are here a parliament that needs to protect the fundamental rights of every single citizen. and these interventions are putting people in danger – the language, the narrative that’s being used. and it is not even true how they present it. so get your facts straight.
president, at last: the european union accedes to the istanbul convention. the strongest legal framework that can help and protect girls and women from violence now. and i mean all women. it is very much needed because there are a number of movements and organisations in europe that are trying to reverse what we have worked so hard for. these are destructive, fascist anti-gender movements that have no respect for women's rights, that have no respect for the lgbt community and that have no respect for human rights. these moves don't belong here. we have to hit back hard with new legislation, to make sure that this legislation, that this convention does what it's supposed to do, which is protect the fundamental rights of girls and women. because if it's those anti-gender movements, we're not doing that, and that's extremely dangerous. we must take our role as legislators and politicians seriously and understand what is happening here. because we're being deprived of rights that we've worked so hard to get. that is why i am glad that we have the istanbul convention. we need to stand up and we will need to pass even more laws to ensure that that defamatory, harmful discourse in this case no longer affects the lives of girls and women. (the speaker agrees to answer a 'blue card' question)
blue-card answer. – perhaps the world is a little bit unfair, right? so the facts are here: the istanbul convention has already done an amazing job. it has made local authorities, national authorities, very much aware of the approach that they need to take and that they need to organise to make sure that women and girls are protected from violence. so the facts are there. and i’m not going to have a discussion with you about whether the istanbul convention is effective or not. the thing is that these are facts that we are basing ourselves on. the istanbul convention is not something that we made up. the facts are there. and this is the very right approach that we need to undertake through legislation. and what we also need to fight is your way of spreading information, because it’s misinformation. and that kind of information that you are spreading is a true danger to the lives of women and girls because you are denying the fact that something is wrong. and that’s exactly what we need to fight.
mr president, wherever you are, on average one in three women is a victim of physical and sexual violence. in your own country, worldwide or here today. look around you, look around you every day and realize that. and finally, we are going to ratify the istanbul convention as europe. i'm very happy about that. but what's also striking today is on the right side -- and now most of them have left -- the men saying to the women, no, everything is going to be fine. you should be afraid of gender ideology. - no, i did not. it's always men telling us that we have to be afraid of something. we have nothing to fear except the men who tell us to be afraid. you have to watch out for them. the incitement to violence. to say that there is a gender ideology because people want to be women too - that is serious and we have to be careful about that.
madam president, commissioner, i’m glad that we’re having this important discussion today on the day of europe. it makes me think of the city eindhoven in my own member state, where the key technological players need to train thousands of workers so that our european champions can keep innovating. the great transitions of our times, such as the digital and green transition, need us to keep innovating. we are going through these transitions because we want to leave the new generation a world that has something to offer and a european union that is safe, open and strategically autonomous. therefore, we need to make sure that they have the skills to thrive in this world. this is why, again, i emphasise the importance of reaching and supporting young people in the development of our actions in the year of skills. let us not forget the young people also from the overseas countries and territories that also need to be targeted when we promote our campaigns for the skills of the future. young women should be encouraged too to pursue their education and career in the stem sectors.
mr president, commissioner, this is great news for the millions of european citizens who have decided and have dared to apply and want to install solar panels in their homes. with this directive we say that in three months, if you have not received approval, approval is automatic, positive silence, tacit approval. for the current situation, years. how many? for some solar and wind projects, the wait time: nine years. so... this whole reform, this whole renewable energy revolution that i can call it, comes and says that if we're serious and we want renewable energy, we can. the authorisations for large capacities, reduced to one year, one and a half years, two years, so it can. and maybe especially this signal, in the situation we're in, we have 80 gigawatts of wind energy waiting for these projects to come online. under construction? extremely little. this whole situation has led us to take these actions and i thank the people who contributed to this report and i thank the commissioner for being very proactive in the discussions.
mr. president, this bill requires countries to increase wind turbines, solar panels and biomass. to save the planet, of course. but trees take up co2 and create a habitat for biodiversity. biomass will destroy that. whole forests are being burned. it releases more toxins and co2 than coal combustion. why does this bill promote biomass? wind turbines are disrupting marine life. why does this bill promote offshore wind turbines? renewable energy is not that sustainable. nuclear energy does not release co2 and does not pollute the air. nuclear energy also provides constant energy, so no fossil backup is needed. let me be very clear. i am not in favour of an eu that dictates to countries what energy sources they can use. but if you do, there must be a level playing field for nuclear energy. it's not too late. i call upon you: i am not going to vote against this directive and for nuclear energy. that's the only energy source of the future.
mr president, how could we not talk about afghanistan this week, two years after the taliban takeover? while the situation worsens and the repression is growing, our attention deflects elsewhere. women and girls are banned from education, banned from working for ngos, banned from recreation, banned from life. the poverty and the food crisis have reached a new low. still, humanitarian organisations have to beg for sufficient funding. and the eu hardly resettles any people. so afghan people are caught in the trap of the taliban. especially for women and girls, this means that their rights, their lives, are put on hold, that they are isolated from the world. so we cannot leave the afghans alone. we cannot forget about their fate. they deserve our support day by day until we have regained their freedoms. so we need a new effective eu strategy towards afghanistan. so let us kick off this initiative for a new strategy with a fully-fledged debate in the next plenary.
madam president, the italian government has taken an unprecedented step with its agreement with albania, according to which asylum seekers who are rescued in the mediterranean sea are brought to albania, where they are detained during an italian asylum procedure. this outsourcing agreement violates international law, but also primary and secondary eu law and it must be denounced, therefore, by the commission and the member states. instead of allowing member states at the external borders to revert to illegal practices, we must secure solidarity within the eu and by equally sharing the responsibility. we propose, therefore, to hold the debate in the next plenary, as this cannot go unanswered.
madam president, sorry, it was really, really confusing.
ok, that’s clear ms gualmini, thank you very much. therefore the agenda is adopted and the order of business is established.
we will now move to a round of speakers of all political groups, as asked by the political groups, to discuss the sharp rise of antisemitism in europe. dear colleagues, it pains us to see stars of david spray-painted onto jewish homes, or to witness assailants throwing molotov cocktails at a synagogue and a jewish community centre. it is worrying to see that jewish graves are being desecrated and vandalised and that parents are asking their children to hide their religious beliefs for fear of retribution. on the eve of the terrible anniversary of pogromnacht, we know that antisemitism is a warning sign that matters to us all, and jewish communities in europe must feel safe. i want to underline here that the european parliament remains committed to combating antisemitism. urgent and immediate measures are needed to fight hate and discrimination.
on behalf of the ppe group. i am not going to say anything. jewish students who are afraid to move freely in their hometown. parents who are afraid to let their children ride public transport. protesters who are barking at guests of a chain of coffee shops because the longtime ceo of this chain is a religious jew. pro-palestinian demonstrations showing posters relating to the holocaust. speakers who demand the destruction of israel. since 7 october, some 600 anti-semitic acts and more than 300 arrests have taken place in france, and more than 200 anti-semitic incidents in germany. anti-semitism is on the rise in europe and worldwide. the continued inhuman terrorist attack by hamas against the people of israel cannot be justified by anything. the more than 200 hostages are released immediately. the missile firing by innocent civilians must stop. hospitals and schools shall not be used as missile launchers or command centres. israel has the right to defend itself and protect its people. and israel knows that it must comply with international law. but do hamas and other actors in the region know this? what about us christian democrats? we do not lose sight of the objective of a two-state solution and a functioning arab neighbourhood with israel. we want to ensure that european money is not used to fund terrorist organisations. we want the european strategy to combat anti-semitism and promote jewish life to be consistently implemented in all member states. we want to have a dialogue with the islamic associations about the dangers of muslim anti-semitism, and we demand that their financial support be tied to a commitment to israel's right to exist. we call on the member states to finally close the gaps in the sanctions regime for anti-semitic hate demonstrations. we expect that anti-semitism on the internet will be consistently fought. these are just a few examples of our very concrete demands. clearly, human dignity and freedom of religion and belief are non-negotiable. they apply to everyone. respecting and protecting them is the task of all state power. but above all, it is the duty of all of us to respect and protect them.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. there were fires on jewish institutions, attacks on holocaust memorials and the jewish section of the vienna central cemetery, and then thousands of anti-semitic hate speech on social media, on the streets, at demonstrations, on buses, trains, in bars and living rooms. none of this is an expression of opinion or comment on the middle east conflict or even justified by current political events. we are at a historic point in europe. should we allow our open, diverse societies to be destroyed by hatred? or, ladies and gentlemen, should we oppose it? in the last few decades, after the brutal crimes of humanity committed by the holocaust, more visible jewish life in europe has been slowly developing. it is this jewish life that is being attacked many times right now. no matter who, no matter where, no matter when. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the basis of the report. hundreds of thousands of jews in europe live in fear. i myself, last week, was in berlin with jewish friends and friends who were celebrating the sabbath, and many of them are asking themselves: do i have a future in europe in the face of the violent unrest of the past few weeks or even the alarmingly high election results of fascist parties? i therefore want all the democratic forces in this parliament, on the street, in all debates to say loud and clear together: yes, jews have a future in europe! we stand by you, we will protect jewish life in europe. we will defend open, pluralistic societies where there is no fear and hatred but democratic fundamental rights, freedom and tolerance, not only on public holidays, but every day. tomorrow is the anniversary of the november 1938 pogroms. in this context, the word 'never again' is very often spoken. this is not a moment, this is not a moment, this is now.
the european parliament has also been asked to take a decision on the basis of the report by the commission. a whole population is being evicted. that we have brought this to europe, with our so-called high european values, so far. there's only one thing that suits you. it's a great collective shame. since 7 october, the number of anti-semitic incidents in the netherlands alone has increased by 818%. even many of our universities are no longer able to provide a safe environment for jewish students. in brussels, protesters carried a flag with a cross. the police were there, looking at it. let us not forget that hatred of jews goes hand in hand with hatred of the state of israel. that's why we have to tackle both. otherwise, our fight against anti-semitism is by definition a lost battle. what's important now is leadership and efficiency. a zero-tolerance policy against anti-semitism, but it's real. i do not understand that some countries still allow demonstrations with very bad slogans that actually call for the expulsion of jews from their own country. the police can't tolerate this. furthermore, the detection and prosecution of those guilty of anti-semitism will have to be given top priority. and let the eu finally ban organizations in europe that openly sympathise with hamas. i asked in writing to put samidoun on the terrorist list. we need more force here too. i also call attention to a recent un watch study showing that several unrwa teachers have openly supported the atrocities committed by hamas. i ask you, president of the commission, to include this in your review of the aid. if the european union is to be a credible community, it must act now.
madam president, commissioner, over 4 000 children killed, massive numbers of civilians bombed to death or bleeding under the rubble. the hospital system has collapsed, yet humanitarian aid is refused. human suffering in gaza is immense, unprecedented and is manmade. we can only be a credible value-based actor in the world if we, as the eu, fiercely condemn these brutal violations of international law, for the sake of the lives and rights of palestinians, but also for so much needed security of israel, as legitimising lawlessness is a dead-end street. calling for a humanitarian pause makes no sense. for what? feeding the people before they are killed? no, the bombardments must stop! we need a ceasefire from both sides now. we need full access for humanitarian aid in gaza and an immediate release of the hostages. that is the necessary starting point for working towards a sustainable two-state solution.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner, as president von der leyen rightly said, today’s proposal to grant candidate status to ukraine and moldova is historic. it shows that russia’s attacks on european peace and stability only has led to closer cooperation, and that we stand by ukraine in their fight for freedom. but the work starts now. we must support both countries to fully meet all criteria for accession, and we need to prepare our own union for enlargement by initiating internal reforms now. at the same time, we cannot permit to forget the western balkans, because we need to restore the trust in that region by sticking to our promises to countries that deliver. that means that we open negotiations with north macedonia and albania and ensure visa liberalisation for kosovo. the citizens there deserve the eu future that we promised to them. any further delay in the western balkans will further empower russia in this region, with all consequences that we should know by now.
the european parliament, the commission and the commission, have been very much involved in the enlargement process. i congratulate ukraine, moldova, georgia, but also bosnia and herzegovina, aware of the fact that bosnia and herzegovina had just been given candidate status in december last year. the good thing about bosnia and herzegovina: the reform efforts that have been made since then have been welcomed and i congratulate borjana krišto in particular. of course, with the full support of the croatian and croatian governments and us deputies who stand with bosnia and herzegovina constantly. i'd say today's situation is win-win. let's see it that way. i fully support an individual approach to enlargement policy, and with the new recommendations we are aware that bosnia and herzegovina should not wait until march next year. these things can be solved earlier. enlargement is a key policy of the european union and we know how important the western balkans are to the european union. i see this as a wide open door for bosnia and herzegovina, and the dynamics of enlargement and the reforms that are needed are in their hands - they have all the tools.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission's decision to recommend the start of accession negotiations with the european union for the republic of moldova and ukraine marks an important historic step towards european integration. the citizens of the two countries are thus receiving a message of support and solidarity absolutely necessary to continue to fight for european values and against the ongoing aggression by the russian federation. as a romanian, i am very happy to see that our brothers in the republic of moldova are getting closer to being with us again, this time in the european union. i am pleased that the message transmitted a few weeks ago by the european parliament itself, through the resolution adopted by our legislature, which we have recorded and supported, has been taken into account by the european executive. now is the time for european leaders to approve these requests without any further delay or conditionality. at the same time, by granting georgia the status of a candidate country, we are ensuring that around the black sea we build a basin of european democracy. together we can make the european union the home of all the states of central and eastern europe.
madam president, the european union does not need to be enlarged; it is big enough as it is. as happened too many times. president von der leyen created a pr moment for herself while overstepping her mandate and bypassing the member states. madam president, in my country, the netherlands, there is no appetite for further eu expansion. we already pay the highest amount of eu contributions per capita and an enlargement will only increase this burden. the commission tells us that if we don’t expand, these countries would turn to russia and china. but the only reason this would happen is because we keep making empty promises. we do not need to fully integrate these countries into the eu in order to improve economic or diplomatic relations. the only european integration this enlargement will cause is disintegration.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, since the beginning of russia’s aggression against ukraine, we have seen in the east, but also in the western balkans, a powerful reform dynamic. enlargement is a geostrategic investment in peace, security, stability and prosperity. our partners – and we – take this exercise very seriously. the enlargement process will continue to be driven by the country’s progress in the rule of law, fundamental rights, the functioning of democratic institutions, public administration reform and the economic criteria – the core of the fundamentals of the eu accession process. we are ahead of significant decisions by the european council later this year. the commission’s role is to present a solid, fact-based analysis on which our recommendations are grounded. this is where our credibility is at stake and this is what we are doing today. we have a solid package in front of us and we hope that it will be endorsed by the european council very, very soon.
thank you very much, commissioner. this conversation is over. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 171.
in writing. the european commission proposed to open accession negotiations with ukraine and moldova. the proposal must be approved by the member states' top council in december and negotiations can then begin with a view to ukraine and moldova becoming eu members. i very much hope that no member state will start to impede the opening of negotiations. there's a long way to go from opening negotiations to joining the eu. enlargement of the european union is primarily a question of fulfilment of the criteria. if the candidate country meets the criteria, it must be welcomed into the european union and if it does not meet the conditions, it must make more efforts. it is a difficult and time-consuming task to fulfil the conditions, but i believe that with the help of the european parliament and the member states, ukraine and moldova will be able to fulfil all the conditions for accession.
in writing. yesterday, the western balkans and tomorrow, ukraine, moldova and georgia: the enlargement project no longer seems to have any limits. the process in the western balkans is taking place at a time when tensions are once again high. this is the case in serbia and kosovo, as pristina has not yet achieved the integration of serb-majority municipalities. similarly, accession negotiations with bosnia and herzegovina could open, while the treatment of the serbian republic of bosnia should challenge us. the region could be tired of this: in serbia, the popular support for eu membership is only 33%. this is not surprising given the pressure on the country to align itself with brussels' policy towards russia and to recognise its former province of kosovo, which is not yet recognised by five member states. in short, this enlargement policy is an aberration. the only tangible aspect is its financial cost through, in particular, the pre-accession aid instrument.
i have two announcements before we move on to the next one. first, i would like to inform you that elisabetta de blasis is a member of the ecr group from 9 november 2023. the second announcement, the s&d group and the non-committed members, have notified the chairman of the decisions concerning changes in the committee's appointments.
these decisions are set out in the minutes of today's meeting and will enter into force on the date of this notification.
the following list of proposals is set out in the commission's state of the energy union (2023/2890(rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i am glad to discuss with you the state of our energy union and the challenges ahead. 2022 was a watershed year. europe’s energy system was shaken by an unprecedented energy crisis triggered by the russian war against ukraine. changes happened at a fast pace. the state of the energy union report provides a rich set of data to look back at last year’s events and assess their impact. as usual, the main document is accompanied by specific reports on key topics, such as the progress in implementing the national energy and climate plans, climate action progress, progress on competitiveness of clean energy technologies and energy subsidies. this year, we have placed a particular focus on clean technologies and we presented at the same time of the report, the wind power package – a plan with concrete actions to support the resilience of the wind power sector in europe. looking back, the state of the energy union report shows that the eu responded effectively to the energy crisis. the repowereu agenda has worked well and helped avoid the worst effects of the crisis. by acting together in solidarity and unity, we managed to drastically reduce our dependence on russian fossil fuel imports by completely phasing out imports of russian coal, reducing our dependence on russian oil by around 90%, and reducing imports of russian gas by 75% between march 2021 and march 2023. between august 2022 and august 2023, gas demand went down by more than 18% compared to the previous five-year average. gas storage facilities were filled up to 95% ahead of last winter, playing a key role in preventing market disruptions. we have diversified our energy supplies towards more reliable, non-russian suppliers – also through the eu energy platform created in april 2022. the crisis forced us to give priority to energy security, but this did not derail progress on the clean transition. eu greenhouse gas emissions decreased by around 3% in 2022, continuing the downward trend of the last 30 years. if all fit for 55 measures are implemented, we will be on track towards the eu’s 2030 target of cutting greenhouse gas emissions by 55% – and possibly even surpass it. the installation of renewable energy capacities increased by 47%. in 2022, for the first time, more electricity was produced from wind and solar than from gas-fired power plants. in 2022, sales of heat pumps rose to unprecedented levels, with an increase of 39%. the sales of electric vehicles went up by 28% compared to 2021. in 2021, the eu’s primary and final energy consumption were 3.2% and 1.8% respectively lower than in 2019 – despite the covid crisis recovery. even with some headwinds, investments in the clean tech industry have shown a stronger resilience than many expected. and on the legislative side, key fit for 55 initiatives were adopted, sometimes with an even higher ambition than their original proposals, in line with repowereu. for instance, the eu agreed higher 2030 targets for renewable energy and energy efficiency. in short, the state of the energy union report shows that despite the energy crisis, the eu delivered on its commitment to climate action and fast tracked its clean transition. but this 2023 report is not only important for what it says about our past actions – it is valuable because it points us to where we need action ahead of next year’s european elections. let me mention five lessons we can draw from this report. first, europe is today better prepared and has stronger crisis management tools than one year ago. yet we remain exposed to energy shocks. a crisis in the middle east, with markets still fragile due to the effects of the russian war, could have wide-ranging impacts. likewise, any incidents on key energy infrastructure may rapidly affect the sentiment of very nervous energy markets. this means that we must continue our diversification efforts and we must keep a vigilant posture, pursuing prudent policies. while we are integrating some crisis response tools into our long-term legislative framework, we should consider continuing the temporary emergency regimes introduced in 2022. these have been essential last year to go safely through the crisis – and i am referring here to the regulations on gas solidarity, on the market correction mechanism and on the permitting for renewables. second, we must not lose momentum on renewables. for that, we need to focus on implementation. one of the key bottlenecks to make grids fit for a decarbonised energy system lies in the time needed to reinforce and expand them. that’s why, after the wind power package, i will propose an action plan for grids at the end of this month. it will include measures to address barriers – including regulatory, financial and permitting issues – and ensure better, smarter use of existing grids. third, investors and industry need now clarity on how member states will translate the new energy and climate targets and objectives into concrete national measures and which public funding can be leveraged. timely, updated national energy and climate plans are key here, and only 21 member states have so far submitted the draft updated plans, which were due by june this year. so it is urgent that member states who have not done so deliver their plans. fourth, we need to preserve europe’s position in the ongoing clean technology race. we are in a good position in a number of technological sectors, but we need targeted attention to areas like wind, some parts of solar industry, cables and products for energy-efficient buildings. in the hydrogen sector, we need to push industry to move from plans on paper to final investment decisions. skills and venture capital investment are also key areas of vulnerability across the board. therefore, reaching an agreement on the necessary infrastructure before the end of the parliamentary term would be very important. reinforcing competitiveness will also go hand in hand with reviewing energy subsidy schemes. last year, the report shows, fossil fuel subsidies increased significantly to shelter consumers and industry from surging prices and it is very important that these costly subsidies are progressively scaled down. let me conclude with the final point on energy poverty. last year, around 40 million people were unable to keep their homes warm enough. this is nearly 10% of the eu’s population, a sharp increase from just under 7% in 2021. this winter will bring again anxiety and concerns for many more citizens. we need to take swift and targeted action to address the underlying root causes of energy poverty. over the past year and a half, the commission has taken many steps to protect consumers and we need to continue. i have presented two weeks ago a recommendation on energy poverty, and on the same day, commissioner reynders and i welcomed the renewal of the joint declaration signed by key stakeholders in the energy sector. and this declaration helps to protect vulnerable consumers from disconnection until the entry into force of the electricity market design. honourable members, this parliament and this commission started the mandate with a strong commitment to tackle energy, climate and environmental challenges. the 2023 state of the energy union report shows that despite a unique set of challenges, we stayed the course. we jointly achieved what we set out for and we are on the correct trajectory. i want to pay tribute to you, honourable members and the work of this parliament and the clean energy transition, but let’s not be mistaken: the coming months will be challenging. we have now seven months before the european elections, and let’s work together to close the open legislative files in the field of energy, ensure robust crisis preparedness and leave, at the end of this mandate, the eu on the right trajectory to achieve its 2030 targets. and now i’m looking forward to hearing your views.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, thank you commissioner kadri simson for representing the state of the energy union report, which every year marks an opportunity for this house to take stock of the progress and also debate what else we should do. the past year has been one of the decisive actions by the union in the field of energy policy. the ongoing war of aggression in ukraine and the overall geopolitical instability has only underlined how important it is for the union and its member states to reduce to a minimum our toxic dependencies on unreliable partners and to increase our strategic autonomy. energy lies at the heart of our economies. it makes our industries function, it heats our homes, it fuels our transport, it keeps our food, it switches on our computers. the more we control that essential input to our way of life, the less vulnerable we will be to external shocks. our green deal and repowereu objectives to have that energy mostly coming from clean indigenous sources therefore makes total sense. we should congratulate ourselves for all the actions taken to tackle the consequences of the war in ukraine. we should be proud of having reduced our dependence on russian fossil fuels, to tighten the rules of gas storage, to have increased the renewable generation in record quantities. we have been and are fully committed to bringing the eu legislative framework up to date to be able to face these challenging times with all the tools member states need to ensure we reach net zero objectives. we have delivered on red, on energy efficiency, we delivered on gas storage and we will deliver on methane, on energy performance of buildings, on the gas and hydrogen package, on remit, electricity market design and the net zero industry act. commissioner simson spoke about needing to step up our efforts to achieve our goals. as chair of the itre committee and a member of the epp group, i expect the commission to take full advantage of this end of the term and all the analysis presented today, to carry out all the necessary impact assessments that will allow the next commission and co-legislators to take action when needed. thank you so much and congratulations.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, commissioner simson, there have been some good things that have been achieved lately, because after the lesson learned from a complicated, difficult, almost catastrophic winter in the european union, we have managed to correct certain things. the fact that there's a requirement to store natural gas is a plus, but people are asking, will this winter be like last winter, when they looked at gas and electricity bills to see what they need to do? to pay his bill he has to give up food, give up clothes, what does he have to do? and most of all, the fact that there was no such predictability was very disturbing. and at the same time, the same people, small and medium-sized companies, big companies in the european union, what they saw: that there are certain companies that have made billions and billions of euros of exceptional profits. and i told you then and i tell you now, commissioner simson, that when there are exceptional profits, something is wrong, something is profoundly wrong. the rule has to be medium and long term contracts, there has to be predictability of these prices, because electricity is not like an agri-food market. and there's one more thing missing: in the european union, energy-intensive businesses, what does that mean? steel, aluminium, cement, gases, chemical fertilizers and for agriculture, chemicals. they can no longer produce because they are obviously uncompetitive, that at the price they can buy both gas and electricity, they are no longer on the market. and then i want to ask you what the future we want in the european union is? shall we take the steel, the aluminum, the cement? - where? from china? if we fail, you don't understand that prices are twice as high as those outside the european union and that means we lose jobs, but strategically. on the one hand we've declared these products strategic and on the other hand, we're looking at how they die. 40 million tons of steel last year, capacity closed, and one of the main reasons is the price of electricity and natural gas. so these things need to be corrected so we can have a quiet winter.
for the renew group. the annual report on the status of our european energy union is an important tool in the fight against climate change and our dependence on fossil fuels and, in particular, putin's gas. the bad news is that 2023 is going to be the hottest year on earth that we've ever seen. the good news is that we know what it takes to fight climate change. we need more renewable energy into our electricity grid. we need more energy efficiency. we need more pace in the green transition. we know what needs to be done, but we lack the will to do what is necessary. we need ambition in the building directive we are negotiating on the spot. we must ensure a common european electricity grid that can integrate more green electricity from wind turbines to sea and land. this requires enormous investment, transparency and predictability and a helping hand for a breakaway european wind industry. and then we have to stop the subsidies for fossil fuels. we must therefore see to it that the necessary and ambitious decisions are taken for the remainder of the election period.
mr president, the former climate minister, mr frans timmermans, has sabotaged nuclear energy here for four years. in the netherlands, he's going to speak in a strange high voice when it comes to nuclear power. he then says there are no studies that prove that nuclear power is profitable. there are. i had one run myself. this study has been peer-reviewed by climate economist and nobel prize winner professor william nordhaus, among others. the conclusion? in a small country like the netherlands, nuclear energy is profitable. but timmermans never wanted to receive this report. and actually, that is a key element of the whole eu energy policy. those who declare dogma sacred dare not face the facts. but for everyone outside the radical climate bubble, the facts are clear. for the whole eu, a transition to nuclear energy would be excellent. it'll make life affordable again. that's what people need. now that timmerman is finally gone, the eu can make a turn. you're going to have to choose nuclear power. it's the highest hour.
president. - a new oxfam study shows that the richest 1% are responsible for more global co2 emissions than the poorest 66%. let that get through to you. a small group of super-rich people have an extremely large impact on the destruction of our planet. even in our cities, where the air gets dirtier and nature deteriorates. the luxurious lifestyle of this polluting elite is causing worldwide suffering. this extreme pollution has terrible consequences for already vulnerable groups, such as people living in poverty. they are also exposed to extreme weather, because there is an increasing link between climate change and, for example, floods and heat waves. 91% of extreme weather-related deaths occur in developing countries. the climate crisis and global inequality are inextricably linked and feed each other. climate justice has never been more crucial at the climate summit. our message to cop28 is clear: the commission has already decided to take the necessary measures to reduce global warming by one and a half degrees.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the proposal for a council regulation (eec) on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of certain products. why is this new legislation being introduced now? because european competitiveness is being destroyed by frans timmermans' green deal. since its introduction, we have seen de-industrialization in european countries. high energy prices prevent european companies from competing with the rest of the world. the commission has already adopted a number of amendments to the directive. why does the european commission live with the idea that innovation is born of more legislation and more bureaucracy? if europe is to be able to compete economically with the rest of the world in 10 years' time, we must not make more rules, but rather abolish them. set realistic goals, but let the free market do its job again. this nettotune patch is not a long-term solution. the real problem is not solved by making a few exceptions for green trout sectors. if the european union is to remain economically relevant, we must stop the green deal. that's the only real solution.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to adopt a proposal for a directive on the environment. but that starts with clear choices. to prioritize everything is to prioritize nothing, and i think that's better. there is a difference of opinion within the european parliament between the parties who see the green deal as a tool for achieving sustainability and the energy transition, thus strengthening our competitive position and that of our industry, and those who see the green deal as a burden on our industry and industry. they're looking away from green developments in the us and china. if we do not start greening ourselves in the eu, then these sustainable components and products will come mainly from abroad. then we'll be dependent. we must clearly choose what we want to specialize in, to set an example for the rest of the world. if we don't make those choices, we're gonna miss the boat.
i'm the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am pleased to present to you our report on the implementation of the regulation. i would like to begin by thanking all the shadow rapporteurs, all the staff involved and the secretariat of the fisheries committee for their excellent cooperation. we are now faced with a report which has a broad scope and which deserves a follow-up. we have to be prepared to take the necessary measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not affected by the current situation. it's got to be different. the regulation provides for an integrated approach, which emphasizes the consideration of factors outside fisheries. unfortunately, that's not always the case. the fishing industry is already very limited, while other factors have a much greater influence on the status of the cod. the implementation of the regulation by the member states is unfortunately very unwelcome. the fact that several member states are not even bothering to submit a report to the commission on the implementation of the management plans is a sign of the problem. what specific questions do we ask the member states? firstly, we call for much more efforts by the member states to remove migration barriers. the eel is a migratory fish that comes to europe from the sargasso sea and then swims back to breed. and on that trek, he comes across all kinds of barriers. i understand very well that in many places dams and levees and locks are indispensable, but there are enough innovative opportunities on the market to make them passable, like fishing rods and fish-friendly pumps in the mills. these possibilities are not being adequately exploited at the moment. secondly, we call on the member states to continue to deploy glass. we are therefore giving young fishermen the opportunity to spread across europe and to maintain sustainable fishing. thirdly, we call for better control and a stronger approach to the illegal trade in glass. criminals still smuggle suitcases full of glass to china, where millions of euros are being paid for this poaching. we really need to stop this. furthermore, more attention should be paid to other factors affecting the fungus, such as water pollution, parasites and scabies. certification and traceability can play a major role in all this. we see some great initiatives in this sector. let's cherish and support them. we also make concrete recommendations in our report to improve the governance of algal management. we therefore call for the establishment of a group of experts that can monitor the management plans of the member states and also serve as a platform for exchanging good practices. we also recommend that more investment be made in scientific research and that more use be made of the fishermen's knowledge and skills. president. - the cod is a beautiful fish, a wonder of creation. the broad approach we are advocating as parliament must be to improve the level of cod, to give a future to cod fishermen and cod farmers and to enable consumers to continue to enjoy a delicious cod sandwich.
president. - poison in the ground, in the air and in our groundwater, that sounds absurd, but it is not. the increasing use of chemical pesticides is increasingly polluting our nature and not without consequences. biodiversity is being affected and our health is also at stake. these drugs can cause serious illnesses. the problem of pesticide pollution is persistent. we must therefore set clear targets for reducing pesticide use. sustainable alternatives are available, but we must ensure that more alternatives are available quickly, especially in the form of biological pesticides. and authorization needs to be done faster. we'll help our farmers with that. in addition to a 50% reduction target within the eu, it is also important to mandate integrated crop protection. in many cases, integrated crop protection also reduces crop costs while yields are high and of good quality, with fewer pesticides on our food. good for the environment, public health and the farmers themselves. madam president, a small point of order. i think we have a tradition here not to drag people into discussions who can't defend themselves in this room. i really don't understand the obsession some people have with frans timmermans. the commission comes with proposals. we have ms kyriakides here or von der leyen. address them, please. not someone who's not in the room.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. as a doctor and environmental politician, i am for careful management of plant protection products and, of course, for a reduction strategy. but i am against this proposal because it provides for a total ban on chemical and synthetic plant protection products in many areas and because i consider the definition of sensitive areas here to be completely inappropriate. i have a huge air and bird sanctuary in my constituency. yes, the greens laugh. the local conservationists are on my side, dear martin hausling, and i actually thought we had the opportunity to explain that to you, too. the conservationists say: please do not jeopardize the conservation of nature under the contract, do not jeopardize the good cooperation we have as conservationists with farmers. i therefore ask mrs aguilera in particular to present and represent the position of the agriculture committee in its entirety. i am particularly interested in amendment no 487 mrs aguilera, please listen: no 487; as the author of the opinion of the committee on agriculture, you have a duty to fight for this request.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. i think facts should be the basis for democratic decision-making. we know, and these are the facts, that intensive use of pesticides is one of the main drivers of species extinction and biodiversity decline in europe. over the past 30 years, there has been a reduction in total biomass and flying insects in protected areas by over 75%. we know, and these are facts, that pesticides can lead to serious diseases like leukemia, parkinson's, increased risk of liver, breast cancer, type 2 diabetes, but also asthma, allergies, obesity, hormonal disorders, etc. we know, and these are facts, that the eu has a hollow approval process. there's not really enough research on cocktail effects, not really enough research on pesticides on soil health. only five species are tested, but in reality there are a million organisms in soils that aren't tested at all. we know, and these are facts, that the industry has deliberately withheld studies on the harmful effects of pesticides on brain development. the industry is dancing around our noses. i am therefore voting on wednesday, as a member of the agriculture committee, for stricter pesticide regulation.
the need to reduce plant protection products, mr president, is well examined and evaluated at eu level, but it must be done in a fair and farmer-inclusive way. unfortunately, the commission's proposal did not take these into account, but now the environment committee's position has been improved. i thank the presenters for their work, but there is still work to be done. it is important to identify local conditions, for example when identifying sensitive areas. in addition, the five-year transition to 2035 will give the sector more time to introduce new products on the market that can replace existing chemicals. in order to ensure food security, farmers must have sufficient tools to grow. finally, this legislation must not lead to member states like finland, which have already reduced their use of plant protection products in the past, having to tighten their limits further, but must focus on those regions, those countries where the use is above the eu average.
madam president, first of all, congratulations to the green rapporteur, sarah wiener, for her tireless work on this file. ‘sustainable use of pesticides’ – when it comes to chemical pesticides, isn’t that a bit of a contradiction? when it comes to our health, biodiversity and the health of our ecosystem, the less pesticides, the better, which is why we needed to increase ambition of the commission’s proposal, especially when it comes to reduction targets. but today, one of the most harmful pesticides is likely to be on the market for another 10 years. yes, i am speaking about glyphosate, which the commission plans to reauthorise because member states failed to ban it, and glyphosate is but one dangerous pesticide still used today. so when we vote on what ‘sensitive areas’ are and what can be sprayed in and around them, please don’t think of the short-term profit of big companies, but think of the people and the children that will be exposed to these pesticides. i don’t want to have to tell the future generation that we failed them by failing to embrace less toxic ways of managing pests and producing food.
president. - madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i see interesting developments in agriculture and horticulture concerning the reduction of the use of plant protection products: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural resources are used in the field of agriculture. or look at innovations in mechanical weed control. developments that we must facilitate as much as possible. the proposed reduction of 50% by 2030 raises major questions, however. will there still be enough room to intervene in disease and plague? i'm afraid not. the definition of sensitive areas is also problematic. it leads to a total ban on the use of plant protection products in large parts of europe, with all the consequences for food production. a different approach is therefore needed. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. in particular, initiatives that reduce environmental impact, such as precision farming and the use of low-risk resources.
mr president, commissioner, president-in-office of the council, the reform of the treaties must be approached with caution and with the greatest possible consensus. in a complex world, the european union must be an effective decision-making actor. but we must ensure that they rest on the wider consensus so as to be more legitimate and ensure their effective implementation. i know the difficulties that unanimity can pose, but i believe we should not demonize it in certain areas of great importance and sensitivity. so far, it has enabled the union to continue to function and ensured that decisions are supported to the greatest extent without creating divisions. the unanimity rule, for example, has not prevented the adoption of 11 sanctions packages against russia in the last 18 months. i would also like to say that the thresholds for qualified majority proposed in this report which we are discussing today are very low in terms of population. many citizens may not be represented in decisions, even for the qualified majority of four fifths of the states, only 50% of the population is required. it seems to me a very insufficient threshold. the european integration process is based on a union of citizens and states. we must ensure a broad representation of both. in any case, i welcome this debate and that we all participate from different groups and nationalities, and we can give our views. it is disappointing that a report on the reform of the european union has recently been submitted to the council by french and german experts alone. it doesn't seem reasonable. i remember the group of sages chaired by felipe gonzález in 2009, with such relevant personalities as lech wałęsa or mario monti, among others. i advocate a realistic, gradual approach to reform, step by step. or, as juncker said in 2017, patiently, floor to floor. we must continue to add new floors to our european home.
mr president, what is the current situation? a european union that is paralysed. a union that takes more than eight years to decide on simple migration policy, not to leave countries at the periphery alone and saving lives. let us look a bit at the current crisis. on the one hand, we have a union that is absent on deciding and many times agrees only on the lowest common denominator, leaving a big vacuum. on the other hand, we have presidents of institutions acting sometimes unilaterally without having a mandate. and let us be clear, tomorrow’s vote is not on a new treaty per se or with a vote on how it should be – different voting arrangements etc. – but tomorrow is a vote triggering the whole process. do we agree that there needs to a treaty change? should it at least be discussed? this is what we will be voting on tomorrow. and if there is the agreement that we should start discussing a change in the treaties, then yes, the whole process commences, we can discuss what we should change, what we want to see, what we would not want to see, and then allow the member states, as well, by unanimity to decide on the treaty change. but it is my belief as a socialist that the strength of any entity is the way it treats its smallest members. and in this regard, i believe that any future treaty change, for it to be successful, it should be measured also by the powers it safeguards to the smallest of its members.
mr president, colleagues, parliamentary democracy is in steep decline. checks and balances, accountability and the separation of powers have been all but eliminated, and nowhere more than at eu level. as the eu is growing more powerful, its democracy is limp. and it is not by accident. the lisbon treaty ironically gave new powers to the parliament, but it also made the european union fundamentally more intergovernmental. the european council is nothing less than a power grab in broad daylight. it has domesticated the european commission and sidelined the european parliament. sadly, this house has meekly resigned to that. we urgently need treaty change, but that alone will not fix democracy. this house has a duty to make full use of its current parliamentary powers and restore the power balance between the institutions. the spitzenkandidat is the first and vital step towards that goal in 2024, because intergovernmental europe will fail. but europe, as a mature parliamentary democracy, will be rock solid. finally, mr president, to quote a famous italian novel, ‘if we want everything to remain the same, everything will have to change.’
president. - the next item is the report (doc. the european parliament is in favour of a revision of the treaties. in 65 policy areas, it calls for the abolition of the national veto, not only on foreign policy but also on taxes and eu budgets. funest for the netherlands: we're already the largest net payers per capita. furthermore, climate policy would become the exclusive competence of the european union. the netherlands would lose all control over that. we're trapped in a web of rules. we're going to be a province of a superstate. but it's not too late. now we still have our veto right on taxes, foreign policy and treaty amendments. with that veto still in place, the new cabinet must do everything it can to prevent another brutal eu coup. so vote for a party that defends the dutch veto. vote for a party that opposes these treaty amendments.
president. - the european project is not yet complete. we are faced with the challenge of bringing european politics closer to the electorate. the voter is the boss. that means we have to change european decision-making and european politics, we have to reform. bringing politics closer to the people, bringing european politics to the streets, so that people feel represented. that is why we need more transparency, more democracy and more mechanisms to protect the values of our rule of law. think about countering discrimination, but think about the right to abortion as enshrined in our treaties. i'll just give you a few examples. we have momentum in europe to change our treaties, to break them open and adapt them to the times, to bend conservatism to progressive rights and ideals. a smaller commission staff, more power for the european parliament and we must get rid of ineffective and closed decision-making in the council. the rule of law and human rights are the foundation of the european union and the aim is to ensure that these foundations are accessible to all. so whoever you are in europe, these rights must be guaranteed forever in our treaties.
madam president, minister, commissioners, when a veto by orbán is feared in the eu council, the unfreezing of the eu funds reappears at the negotiation table. it’s a cynical pattern, but hungary has not resolved its rule-of-law and fundamental rights deficiencies. the measures adopted in may suffer from fundamental flaws. even in the most lenient interpretation, three out of the four judicial requirements are still not met, or only partially. the commission was crystal clear: no fulfilment of the enabling conditions as long as the lack of judicial independence is not addressed. i urge the commission to remain diligent and to keep the money frozen until genuine reforms are effectively implemented. to unlock funding to hungary would play straight into the hands of orbán, because his cynical approach of holding eu council decision-making hostage is actually – literally – paying off. i urge the council to find an effective approach to orbán’s blackmail. explore other ways to financially support ukraine. we cannot allow ourselves to be taken hostage.
madam president, minister, commissioner, russia’s actions at the finnish external border must be called out for what they are: a geopolitical move. russia is cynically using asylum seekers and migrants to exert pressure, and this must be clearly condemned and addressed. but casting aside eu law is never the answer. derogating from key standards and rights can never be the solution. doing so would mean re-victimising those same asylum seekers and migrants that fell into russian hands, and it would give russia exactly what it wants: proof that the eu doesn’t practise what it preaches; proof that its actions are working. foreign affairs issues require foreign affairs solutions. we don’t need derogations. we need diplomacy and full support of the finnish authorities. i urge the eu to take a firm stance against this dehumanising of vulnerable people, as if they are mere geopolitical pawns. we must ensure that on our side of the border we treat people with dignity; grant them the rights they are entitled to, including access to an asylum procedure; and uphold our laws, because that is what makes us europe.
i would like to ask the honourable member, mr president, the honourable member, the commissioner, all those who today feel that israel is the main criticism, including mr borrell, the following questions: who has held more than 200 innocent civilians hostage for more than six weeks? that's right, hamas. who sowed death and destruction on october 7th, recently at a peaceful music festival and in many kibbutz? that's right, hamas. who puts innocent civilians in the service of a human shield? that's right, hamas. certainly, everything now must be focused on getting all the hostages out as soon as possible. we saw the despair and grief in the eyes of their relatives who told us their grim stories. the fact that an agreement is now being reached on the release of a first group is hopeful in this respect. but let 's not forget: in order to achieve lasting peace, hamas will have to really disappear from the scene. israel deserves our continued support in that fight.
mr president, violence against women is a serious violation of human rights. it prevents equality, peace and other human rights. one in three women remains a victim of violence. we see scenes and cases of violence against women every day. europe has already ratified the istanbul convention, which has set the roadmap. we are negotiating a directive on combating violence against women and domestic violence so that we can have a global, coordinated and united response. it is important that parliament's voice is heard in these tripartite dialogues by the council. to combat this violence, we need, without a doubt, adequate policies, the political will to implement them and a conscious society in the fight against this violence. europe is going down this road. what has happened in my country, spain, is different: more than 1,200 rapists have had their convictions reduced, and more than hundreds of rapists have been released from prison while the number of women murdered continues to rise. it took six months to change the spanish law of the solo yes yes that has thrown these bad results and its consequences will last for more than five years. it sent the message to the world that it was not a priority to save women's lives or protect their rights. the message was neither clear nor unisoned. mrs. iratxe garcia said she needed a clear and unison message. the spanish answer was neither clear nor united. the left-wing parties governing spain wanted to impregnate human rights with ideology. that is certainly a bad road. many of those sitting here were silent. they didn't want to talk about this. and others wouldn't even have changed it. we had a european parliament mission to study this issue, among others, to spain. the conclusions of this european parliament mission, with the consent of the president of the commission on women's rights and gender equality and the non-majority left-wing groups, have been paralysed. i wish that would change. women's rights have no ideology.
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i would like to say briefly that we in the european parliament do not tolerate systematic violence against women. we demand a comprehensive package of violence prevention and comprehensive, which means that rape must of course be included. i would remind you that the istanbul convention, which the european union could only ratify because we, the european parliament, have requested a legal opinion on the legal basis. and it went well. i would like to say that the commissioner has not yet made a decision on the matter. rape must be recorded. and of course, to record rape means: only a yes is a yes, only a yes is a yes; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. we must put an end to this systematic violence against women once and for all.
mr president, let's face it: half of europeans are second-hand citizens right now. half of europeans are paid less for the same work, half of europeans are harassed daily, half of europeans are harassed, abused and even killed, without any major consequences for criminals. there are europeans who go to school, who work, who pay taxes and who raise their children. they're our daughters, wives, sisters, mothers and they're just like the colleague you see beaten today and tomorrow, god forbid, you never see her again. because there is no murder in love, love does not kill. but the indifference of the european authorities does. and besides the beautiful words we're saying today, my message is something else: that we need justice without mercy for the harasser, justice without mercy for the rapist, and justice without mercy for the murderer. otherwise we won't do much.
president. - madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the netherlands abortion centres are often guarded. volunteers who let women know there are alternatives. they provide financial, practical, social and psychological assistance to mothers and children. and that saves lives. a european directive on combating violence against women and domestic violence is currently being negotiated. an important topic, of course, but there is a very wrong provision in this package. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the council to ensure that the commission is able to take action. so if i have a good conversation with a woman who's considering an abortion, and i give her consideration of alternatives or offer her a leaflet on the street, am i punishable? that can't be true! then we're gonna punish someone who tries to protect an unborn child, someone who helps women in need. i call that really ruthless. instead of providing care, we're going to ban an outstretched hand. i therefore call on the negotiators to reconsider this part of the package. what we're about to see here is a really dirty road.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. and that electricity, which we need to sustain our mobility, our industry, our built environment and to build a hydrogen economy, we need to produce without greenhouse gas emissions. sustainable energy sources and nuclear power can together deliver that climate-neutral electricity. they are, as far as i am concerned, each other's allies in the fight against fossil fuels. it is precisely in countries with limited space, such as my own netherlands, that we can provide nuclear energy in part of our energy mix. small modular nuclear reactors are a very interesting option. they're safe because of their so-called walk away safe design. heat can easily escape, so the power plant automatically cools itself in case of an incident. in addition, the series production in factories makes quality control better, the modular construction makes costing interesting and the financial risks manageable by volume. in recent years, i have called on the european community, together with my colleagues, to join hands for the further development of these small modular nuclear reactors. we are working on climate policy and increasing europe's strategic autonomy. let's invest together in research, development and production of small modular reactors. let's work together to streamline and accelerate licensing. the commission has also adopted a number of proposals for a new directive on the protection of workers' rights. let us not be afraid of nuclear energy, like the one part of this house, because it is not necessary. let us also not see nuclear energy as a solution to everything and use it as an excuse to do nothing for the rest of us, like another part of this house. the honest truth is that nuclear energy will undoubtedly play a greater role in eu and member states' energy policies, in addition to renewable energy sources. those who turn a blind eye to this are not taking the climate problem seriously enough. in short, on the move.
mr president, the point is very simple: the more green electricity needs to replace fossil fuels, the more important metals such as lithium, graphite, cobalt and nickel are. for the production of batteries, but also generators for wind turbines and solar cells. the energy transition is a material transition and if we want to achieve that green ambition as europe, we need more of those raw materials. that means that we in europe too must look at the options we have when it comes to mines. but how do we use the resources we already have smarter? we must enter into strategic partnerships with other countries in the field of critical raw materials, but this must be done on an equal footing so that all parties benefit. so the energy transition is just a material transition. and in the transition to a green europe without fossil fuels, rare raw materials and the production of sustainable technologies are crucial. i congratulate the rapporteur, the council and the commission. a very good law. and now execute.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, today is a historic day. the european parliament leads the way and is the first parliament in the world to call for action against addictive design of apps and smartphones. no self-discipline can beat big tech’s addictive design tricks we are all subject to on a daily basis. it affects the attention span and brain development from a young age. we see especially youngsters glued to their phones, with 16 to 24 year olds spending an average of seven hours on their phones per day, potentially leading to a bigger risk of depression, anxiety and even attention disorders. if we do not intervene now, this will have an enormous impact on generations to come. we set rules for slot machines, but every time we open our apps, scroll down or refresh our social media, the same thing happens in our brains. this is why we have to ban the most addictive design features, such as the endless scroll, tackle addictive algorithms, and introduce a right not to be disturbed. so, it is up to you, and not the tech companies, to decide exactly what attention-grabbing features you want on your phone and when. the time is now to step up our game against the toxic business models of big tech. the parliament is clear, and now it’s up to the commission to make proposals to tackle addictive design for us and all generations to come.
the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. the european health data area is a key building block of the european health union. digitalisation of healthcare with improved cross-border patient care and improved european-wide research through better data access can actively save lives and will strengthen the european research location. but this digitisation will only succeed if patients in the european union can trust this system. we are not going to be able to do this without the help of the commission. i am very sorry that the rapporteur, mr sokol, has come on stage the other day and has made a loud stand against more rights for patients and even spoken out on his behalf. apart from the fact that this is not covered by the text yet, how can we seriously oppose more control over citizens' data? we must therefore support amendment no 555 tomorrow, which ensures a balanced balance between the objectives of this proposal and the fundamental rights of citizens. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. our amendment will make the interpretation very clear. you yourself have just said that the text now allows for this possibility of contradiction, but that is not really clear. and that is why i also did not understand your statement that you would declare it a red line if you supported this amendment, which would provide a clarification of the wording found so far. we could simply accept this text by agreeing to clarify the interpretation you have just proposed with amendment no 555, and then we all agree.
blue-card reaction. – can i reply now again, madam president? ok! i never had that so thank you very much for this opportunity. once again, if we agree that the wording at the moment is already allowing patients to say ‘no’ to register their data initially into the electronic health record, then it’s fine. but then we can also adopt amendment 555, which would precisely make this legal and we wouldn’t have to depend on the interpretation of the rules. hence, i think that we agree in principle, and that the wording of the amendment 555 is better and hence should be supported.
madam president, madam commissioner, the covid-19 crisis has shown us how much all decision-making in the prevention, management and treatment of a disease depends on the availability and analysis of reliable, secure, comparable or even interoperable health data. this crisis has revealed the very wide range of benefits that the establishment of a genuine european health data area offers. this new health data sharing space will enable citizens to obtain, share and control their personal health data in all member states, thereby strengthening good conditions for the free movement of europeans. health professionals to improve prevention, diagnosis and treatment and to ensure safer and more efficient care by avoiding disruptions; researchers have access to more (and more robust) health data for research and innovation while being less expensive; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment, which is intended to encourage the development of new medicines and medical devices, is to be implemented in the light of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the environment. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the use of the healthcare system in the member states is to encourage the development of more efficient and effective healthcare systems. in full respect for data protection, the european union must rapidly exploit the enormous potential of the european health data area to better prevent, diagnose and treat diseases in all member states equally.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. many people were concerned that their most intimate medical records would end up on the street. and the senate, the house of representatives, the house of representatives in the netherlands, they were right. in 2010, thirteen years ago, our senate voted to halt the introduction of this. instead, the country link has now been introduced. this is a complete opt-in system: your data will only be exchanged if you give your consent. the eu is now proposing a variant on the electronic patient file. i don't think that's such a good idea. it and government, that's often wrong. and the farther the government is away from the people, the more often it goes wrong. in the case of the eu, a single leak in a single member state could lead to the data of a few hundred million people falling into the wrong hands. and given the rising cybercrime, that's certainly not an imagined danger. in short, i am against the european health data space coming in. - thank you. - thank you.
mr president, dear colleagues, receiving a phone call from your boss while on holidays, or spending time with friends or family on the weekend; sitting on the couch and routinely checking emails, leading to interrupting your series, and then starting to work for half an hour anyway; having messaging apps dominated by work-related chats. it sounds all too familiar for a lot of workers in europe. on top of increasingly using digital tools, the pandemic has installed remote working as the new normal, and the increased flexibility also has come with further blurring of boundaries between private and work life. a right to disconnect is a 21st century working right that we should ensure for all european workers, so that they can get the rest they deserve. the european parliament already voted in favour of having an eu law at the beginning of 2021 that would tackle this always-on culture, which leads to physical and mental health problems. companies and member states have shown that it’s possible to put this into practice. but now that the negotiations between social partners have not delivered a result, the commission shouldn’t wait, and make a proposal as soon as possible to ensure the right to disconnect to all workers. the burnout pandemic needs to be stopped as quickly as possible.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, dear members, first reply to some of your comments. first of all, this is not a foreign-agents law. we are not asking for any labels to be assigned to anyone. in fact, we are including safeguards against such actions. we are not limiting who can participate in the european public space, and we are not prescribing any penalties or limitations for those who receive funding from foreign entities. all we are asking is that, when you get funding from abroad, you declare who paid for that specific campaign. we want to know who we are talking to. so we are strengthening the basic insuring transparency. on adding too much burden on the civil society, someone asked about this. you know what, creating transparency is worth the small cost of registration. it’s only those who receive money for specific projects from foreign entities that have to register. there will be one single digital gateway, which sets up a one-stop shop to provide information about the rules and procedures in the single market. on rangel, who is not here, he said that representative democracy must remain. of course, nobody wants to replace representative democracy. but when we introduced deliberative or participative democracy, it was only to complement through inclusion of citizens. we talked about this a lot during the conference on the future of europe. on ruiz devesa, yes, i won’t say that it was a fault, but there were reasons for abolishing this multilingual digital platform. but we are in procedure, just about to start the new ‘have your say’ platform, which is coming soon and will have the citizens’ engagement platform, just to let you know. and on mr bilčík, thank you very much for cooperation with inge because with this package, the european commission is also responding to the proposals of the european parliament. i refer particular to the reports of the special inge committee on foreign interference in all democratic processes. and with this package in particular, the recommendation on civic participation, this is an explicit response to the final report of the conference of the future of europe, specifically to proposals number 36 and 37, which aim to enhance and strengthen the participation of citizens in european policymaking. we also respond to proposal 38 on democracy and elections, which propose to, i quote, ‘strengthen the links between citizens and their elected representatives, taking into account national specificities and citizens’ desire to be closer to them and have a feeling that their concerns lead to specific action by elected representatives in the european parliament and national parliaments’. this was a quote from the final proposal of the conference. honourable members, this shows that representative democracy is alive and kicking in the european union, but we cannot be complacent. we need to defend democracy, as all of you have said here, citizens are not objects of democracy, they are participants. and when even one citizen is strengthened in their ability to engage in a democratic process, then democracy as a whole is strengthened. so we have to bear this in mind. i want to thank you for this excellent debate. but my colleague věra jourová will have more and she will conclude.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i want to thank you for this – indeed, as dubravka just said – very interesting discussion and timely and important discussion, and i forgot to thank before the inge and ing2 committees, because there were a lot of consultations and a lot of wisdom which was delivered to us from the members of these committees. indeed, as you said, our democratic system is under big pressure from inside, but also from outside. we have a super electoral year ahead of us, not only the european elections. and many of you said that we have to protect our democracy by all means, and that also we have to pay attention to the foreign powers that want to abuse our openness and our democratic system, who want to strengthen the subversive actions, by the way, explaining to the european people that democracy does not work for them, which is not true, but this is the main narrative. i want to be concrete, maybe to summarise what we have done to protect democracy and democratic systems in the eu. you for sure remember the european democracy action plan, which we also have as a review in today’s communication. what were the things and the risks and the concrete threats which we wanted to address? count with me: cyber threats, abuse of private and sensitive data of the voters, the lack of rules for online political advertising, the avalanche of disinformation and the weakening of media. all these threats have been identified. and for all these threats, we came with very concrete initiatives, mainly legislative initiatives. we added one more last friday in the trilogue in the ai act trilogue; we also placed the ai technologies for elections among the high-risk technologies. we are accelerating also everything regarding the protection of the rule of law and fundamental rights. but i want to keep this democratic system. the missing bit was this foreign influence or in some cases, foreign interference with the intention to do harm to our democracy. so here comes the directive, which we adopted today at the commission level, which was discussed here. i want to add a few things to react to some of your comments. what the directive is not: it is not a piece of legislation which resembles, for instance, the georgian law. this is not labelling anyone. this is not naming anyone foreign agents. this is not stigmatising anyone. this directive does not include criminal sanctions. we are keeping with the administrative sanctions. i believe that this directive is very good at addressing the problem, at requiring transparency in a proportionate way, and something which might bring good results in a few years. i hope we will have a swift legislative process. on spyware, please bear with me. on friday, we have another trilogue on the media freedom act. and there is an explicit ban – indeed with some exceptions – of usage of spyware against journalists, and also the commission services, as was said last time here by didier reynders, the services are working on the rules against the usage of spyware. but i cannot tell you now how far we are. last comment – and here i have to be a little bit personal – on sophie in t’ veld. did i hear well? did you really say that the commission is corrupting hungary? that there is a bribe? to bribe somebody is a criminal activity. i would like to ask you not to use this, even in a metaphoric case. i am extremely sensitive about that.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, a vote will be held tonight in the united nations general assembly to discuss the draft resolution tabled by the united arab emirates, with the support of some european countries, including spain's current presidency of the council, on the situation in gaza, following the direction of the secretary-general of the united nations, who for the first time in the long history of the united nations, has made use of the article of the charter which allows the international community to draw attention to the serious situation of threat to peace which is occurring at a certain time and place, in particular, in gaza. as you know, the european states sitting in the security council voted in favour of this resolution: france as a permanent member and malta as a rotating member. but it was vetoed by the united states. and that is why the general assembly will now have the opportunity to make its opinion on this matter. and, after the debate we had yesterday in the council on foreign affairs of the union, i think that we will see a reproduction of the situation we have already had, in which some european countries will vote for, some against and some abstain, which reflects what is undoubtedly a different perspective, a different assessment, based also on historical circumstances and on the cultural and political heritage that history has left in each member state with regard to israel and palestine. but the reality is that the situation in gaza is still getting worse. you know as well as i do, from the information we get, the number of civilians killed or wounded. there are about two million people who have been displaced from their homes and are struggling to find shelter. the united nations tells us that there is no longer any possible refuge and that they are about to end their activities in the area due to lack of resources and security. the german foreign minister herself has pointed out this situation and the us secretary of state has also raised his voice. but the situation continues. we had thought and asked at the g7 that israel's military activities in southern gaza should not follow the same pattern as they have followed in the north, but unfortunately they are following the same pattern, if not worse. the level of destruction in gaza is certainly unprecedented in history. if you compare it with what happened in german cities bombed during world war ii, there are reports that have been published about it that the level of destruction in gaza is higher than dresden or cologne and similar to hamburg. two thirds of the buildings and infrastructure have been destroyed. the number of dead is not known for sure, of course, but some estimates suggest it may be as high as 20,000. and, as i have said on several occasions, this horror cannot be justified by the horror that was experienced on 7 october by the hamas terrorist attack on the kibbutz near gaza. i can only recommend that you read the letter from philippe lazzarini, written on 7 december last, with data that have unfortunately become outdated, explaining the humanitarian situation in gaza. no one better than lazzarini himself, who is in charge of oops, can explain it. or the article that filippo grandi is publishing today explaining the same thing: the situation we are in. in my opinion, there must be some other way to fight hamas. there must be some morally alternative other than the death of so many innocent people, including so many children. there has to be an alternative and unfortunately what we are seeing is not something we can justify from the point of view of the need to eradicate hamas, because of the high cost it is having in terms of human lives and destruction. not only were human lives lost by the bombings, but also by the living conditions that the blockade of gaza has created. the united nations secretary-general has therefore raised his voice and used an article of the charter which gives him powers to draw attention to this and to ask the security council to take a decision on this matter. and you may agree or disagree with the content of this secretary general's call. but what cannot be argued is that in doing so, the un secretary-general becomes a threat to peace. he cannot be blamed or considered to be working for the terrorist group hamas. these are statements that have been made and which i find absolutely refutable. you can vote for or against, you can vote for or against. even within the european union we do not have a unanimous position on this. but what you cannot do is disqualify the un secretary-general because that means disqualify the un as a fundamental body that guarantees or works for peace and stability in the world. and that is why these attacks are completely unjustified and i think it is in europe's honour to defend the secretary-general, understanding that you may even disagree with what he proposes. you may disagree, but what you can't do is disqualify your performance. and we'll see who's in agreement and who's out of agreement, because there's going to be a vote at the un general assembly. and since foreign policy is still a policy of each member state and we do not have a common position at the moment, or at least i have not been able to build it, we will know what the respective positions of the different states are. but above all, we must preserve the united nations as a fundamental organ of the multilateral system we defend and on which we intend to build a world where force is eradicated as a method of conflict resolution. we discussed all this yesterday at the foreign affairs council. we discussed how to address this, not the reconstruction of gaza - because gaza has already been rebuilt several times - but the construction of political structures that allow the palestinian people to have their own state, also as a way to guarantee peace and security. and the security of israel. because israel's security cannot be achieved by military means alone, it cannot be achieved by simply trying to eradicate a terrorist group, causing the deaths of thousands of civilians, it cannot be achieved by simply sowing the seeds of hatred that will bring forth tomorrow other fighters who will also have to be eliminated in an endless cycle of violence. we will never condemn hamas' terrorist attacks enough. we do and we ask for the hostages' release. and we need to have a balanced view of the problem. and at this moment i think the most urgent thing is to avoid the loss of more human lives and to start a process that will allow for a political solution to the conflict. unfortunately, the israeli prime minister has repeatedly expressed his opposition to this political solution. he has repeatedly said that he is the guarantee that there will never be a palestinian state. the international community, however, in its vast majority, in the case of the european union, is unanimously in favour of this solution. knowing whether it is still possible and working towards it will have to be the european union's greatest commitment in the coming years. and that is why we must denounce the continued expansion of illegal settlements that attack the un resolutions in the west bank and we must try to put a stop to the violence that is being exerted, not in gaza anymore, but in that part of the occupied palestinian territories. i call for a discussion that transcends the inevitable emotions we all suffer and feel right now to find a way that will allow rationality to prevail, save lives and build that peace after a hundred years of war.
on behalf of the epp group. mrs president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, i was listening to your speech and the truth is that i agree on many points. the european union has not yet been able to achieve a peaceful solution to the conflict in the middle east, but it has been able to achieve a peaceful solution to the conflict in the middle east. when those circumstances arise, i am convinced and i tell you that everyone will accept it. but first, let's go by parts. i would like to thank the moderate politicians who are still here and i am very proud of them in this parliament, the socialist group, the liberals and the greens, who voted against the presentation of resolutions. we have a resolution that unites us all on october 19. i understand that the communists, the left group, do not like it and this is the fourth attempt to dismantle that unity. you've made a mistake again. the moderate people - we are sitting here many - we will not use this use of the word to put a finger in mr borrell's eye or the presidency of the european union. we are here to be part of the solution, to try at least to be part of the solution, which is the european union. we can ask both sides for a lot of things. we can ask hamas to stop being claimed by the palestinians for the kidnapping they are doing of the aid trucks. we must end this intervention once and for all on behalf of the palestinian people, who are not true, who are the human shield of these terrorist organizations. we shall see if in today's statements my colleague, the chairman of the palestine delegation and others will speak in the same terms, in european terms, of solution, of collaboration, so that this does not end in a conflict that can drag us all down. let's see if i can hear it this afternoon from even the far left. i believe that with the european spirit we can achieve many things among all and be part of the solution and not part of the problem.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, terror and unreasonableness have taken over gaza. the right to self-defense cannot justify the murder of more than 17 000 gazans, including 5 000 children, the destruction of 50% of the homes in the strip and the displacement of almost 90% of the population. prime minister netanyahu does not honour his responsibility as a representative of a democracy and falsely relies on the right to legitimate defense to violate international humanitarian law and turn an armed confrontation into an atrocity. since last 7 october we have repeatedly condemned the savage attack carried out by hamas against israel that claimed the lives of 1,200 people. we've met with the families of the israeli abductees. we have witnessed the atrocities committed by hamas and also the horror in the kibbutz. we also share the pain of israeli society. because the european union and countries like mine, spain, have also been victims of terrorism. but for mr netanyahu anything other than a blank check for the destruction he is subjecting the strip to is synonymous with complicity in terrorism. antónio guterres is not a danger to world peace by invoking article 99 of the un charter to force a humanitarian ceasefire. neither does pedro sánchez support terrorism by condemning the indiscriminate killing of children and saying it is unbearable. instead of listening to his compatriots and the international community, mr netanyahu opts for confrontation with several european union countries. the time has come for the european union to have a common position on gaza in the face of this catastrophe. that there be a permanent ceasefire, that hostages be released, that water and electricity and food reach the gazan population, that the wounded in hospitals be safe from bombs and that the displacement of refugees who have nowhere to hide be stopped. it is also essential to strengthen sanctions against hamas on financing, to ban settlers attacking civilians in the west bank from entering the european union, to support the palestinian national authority in taking responsibility for gaza and to lead an international peace conference that will make a two-state solution possible. ladies and gentlemen, over the last 75 years israel has built a thriving, innovative and entrepreneurial democracy, and mr netanyahu must understand that the only way to protect the people of israel is with no war. because there will never be such a strong iron dome, or walls so high to prevent violence. violence can only be avoided with peace. and peace must be just. because it's fair that palestinian children can also grow up in their own homes without the siege of settlers. because it's fair that palestinian students can move freely in gaza, the west bank and east jerusalem. because it's fair that palestinian farmers can cultivate their own land. because it is fair that palestinian families can live in their own state without the control of a foreign army. neither war, occupation, nor expulsion is the answer. the only possible answer is two states living in peace. let us always keep in mind the words of isaac rabin to yaser arafat when they received the prince of asturias prize in 1994: "an investment in peace is an investment in life".
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr borrell, commissioner, in two weeks' time we will celebrate christmas in europe, the celebration of peace. it is in the region where this festival originated that conflict has raged for more than 75 years. i'm sure the footage from the last few months is terrible. naked palestinian men being taken away, children dying in hospitals from bombing, lack of water and care, parents of hostages still desperately waiting for every sign of life. this hallucinating madness must stop now. we voted here two months ago, i think, for a very strong resolution by an overwhelming majority. and actually, that resolution is still very, very strong. we then called for a humanitarian break. the council has taken humanitarian pauses and in the meantime we have come so far as to call for a humanitarian ceasefire. well, i want to make a call today. here, with christmas in store. i think we should be strong and ask now, mr borrell, to declare a humanitarian ceasefire of at least a month. people need time to breathe, to care for the wounded, to deliver humanitarian aid. and yes, we must help israel fight the terrorist organization hamas, but also its borders on warfare. what for me now is like a pole standing above water: i would like to see that the humanitarian aid reaches the people and that the violence in the region stops today.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, without the abhorrent massacre of innocent civilians committed by hamas on 7 october, this terrible war in gaza today wouldn’t be happening. this is as true as the fact that that two months later, with some 18 000 palestinians killed, many of them children and women, nearly 2 million internally displaced, and a catastrophic humanitarian situation unfolding, it has become evident that israel’s response has been disproportionate and indiscriminate. one of the most sophisticated armies in the world, even in a place as densely populated as gaza, could have chosen a more surgical response instead of one of the most massive bombing campaigns in living memory. moreover, the response chosen might be ultimately counterproductive in strategic terms. this war is leaving a trail of hatred and desire for revenge in the population of gaza and in the whole palestinian people, which will again last for generations, further fuelling the vicious cycle of violence. what will happen in a devastated gaza, possibly without hamas, but certainly full of pain and hatred? will this scenario really be a guarantee for israel’s security in the long term? as difficult and unrealistic as it may seem today, everyone knows that the only possible way for achieving a lasting peace with security guarantees for israel is with a viable, sovereign palestinian state along the 1967 borders, and with a leadership unequivocally committed to peace. that is why i say again today, free all hostages, reach a permanent ceasefire and build peace and security once and for all.
mr president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, as we are discussing in this house today the tragic death toll in the gaza strip has now reached almost 18 000, including more than 5 000 children. those who have escaped death have no home, no water, no food, no medicine. all that remains of gaza is a desert of ruin, pain and devastation. punishing the criminal terrorists of hamas is legitimate, necessary and understandable; the commission has already taken the view that the commission is not prepared to impose a collective punishment on an entire population. we must speak out with strength and courage. i call for an immediate and permanent ceasefire, as well as the unconditional release of all hostages. but all this pain, all this suffering and all this atrocity will be even more absurd, insulting and unjustifiable without a political solution based on the principle of the two true and lasting states, supported and guaranteed by the international community, including through a un peacekeeping mission, where we, as the european union, the arab and muslim states, will have to do our part. so far we've been a little marginal, but right in front of us is one of the hardest pages in history. it is our duty not to turn around and be the voice of those who have no voice, the right of those who have no rights, the hope of those who have no hope. history will judge us . it is up to us to decide how and what judgment he will judge us.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. first, israel is defending itself by military means, with regular forces, against an irregular terrorist organization that does not respect the lives of children, does not respect the lives of women, does not respect the lives of men, but seeks the lives of all jewish people and furthermore, it is spreading its islamist activities far beyond the middle east. this is the second point: israel is not only defending itself. israel is defending us all the western civilization, the world of values, human dignity, freedom of the rights. this is what israel defends against islamism, which is always to be distinguished from islam as a religion, but which is very damaging to islam because of its terrorist, inhuman attitude. thirdly, there has been an anti-semitism in our capitals, in europe, throughout the western world, as a result of this brutal attack against which we must defend ourselves, against which we must fight if we are to maintain our civilization. the question of the liberation of hostages and the two-state solution is also on the one hand. yes, it is ultimately the professionals of the israeli military who know how to operate to protect hostages, children, women and men held captive by hamas, and to eliminate hamas to create peace. and then it is the world community that must ensure that there is demilitarization, and that is a step forward to allowing one day peaceful coexistence at all.
question from the blue card. mr mandl, are you aware that some members of the delegation for relations with israel - i am one of them, i am also a member of the delegation for relations with palestine - have been harassed by someone who is there, who is responsible for european affairs for the government of israel in brussels? he's sitting there. i could not ask the president of the delegation for relations with israel, mr lópez-istúriz, but as you are also a member of the delegation of which i am a member, i would like to say so. we have been harassed by the israeli delegation for maintaining positions on palestine. this is not acceptable. i mean it here.
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. very honourable colleague! i would urge you to avoid abusing this house, this parliament, this representation of the citizens, who stand with the people of israel and all people of good will, who respect human rights and human dignity, for something that is obviously not part of the legislation or foreign policy or parliamentary diplomacy of this house. if you have a complaint about something i know nothing about and that doesn't interest this house, you should address the right authorities and not distract from the fact that we are fighting anti-semitism, terrorism and islamism together here. i invite you to follow this path.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. i'm thinking about the hostages. if there is room to release them again, for example through humanitarian breaks, then we should, of course, seize that opportunity. however, unilateral pressure on israel to reach a long-term ceasefire is not justified. that's what you're playing hamas with. and hamas is the biggest obstacle to peace. and speaking of obstacles, let's also look at the poor role of unrwa in this conflict. by means of the systematic inheritance, where refugee status is automatically passed from parent to child, unrwa is artificially maintaining a gigantic refugee problem. this approach has now made 70 percent of the palestinians in gaza refugees in their own countries. in fact, unrwa has become part of the problem. it's time you faced that.
mr president, the reality of gaza is that it’s only a strip roughly twice the size of brussels, one that has been hermetically closed and isolated for almost two decades by sea, land and air. a strip that has seen 67 days of the heaviest forms of violence, trapping and displacing most of its 2.3 million civilians. a strip that is now referred to as the graveyard for children, a strip in which journalists saw their deadliest month ever. one where children have been robbed of their childhood innocence and their parents. packed, panicked and pressed, people have been forced to flee from north to south and from the south only further south. these are all mass atrocities. it has been 75 years since the universal declaration of human rights and 75 years since palestinians have been robbed from basic freedoms. and let me be clear, i fully condemn the atrocious acts by terrorist organisation hamas. but how will this military campaign free the hostages? how will violence on the west bank, the expansion of illegal settlements and the imprisonment of children ensure durable peace for the people of palestine and israel? the only solution: ceasefire now.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, vice-president / high representative, colleagues, the recent eu china summit demonstrated that we’re far from out of the woods in our relations with beijing, and we won’t be anytime soon. of course, we can hope that at some point in the future, china may again try to become a responsible stakeholder, but presently, let’s not fool ourselves. china is a dictatorial and totalitarian regime with global hegemonic ambitions. i want to make just a few remarks on china’s foreign policy and our interests in that regard. look at what happens in the philippines neighbourhood. we have to push back hard against china’s efforts to change the facts in the sea. maybe having multilateral patrols would be a good idea. look at taiwan, in january, there will be presidential election. china already threatens to coerce the new newly elected president. we should prepare for pushing back. look at hamas. china has not even called them a terrorist organisation. look at the wave of dumping exports that is coming our way. josep borrell spoke a little bit about that. look about ukraine, where china supports russia materially and politically. we have to call a spade a spade. and even as regards climate, you love saying, vice-president borrell, that china is a necessary partner. i would say they are necessary alright, but not yet a partner in that regard. so let’s do realistic policy and not pursue pipe dreams.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, high rep, the prc is a communist state all the time increasing its aggressive, autocratic, both external and internal posture. it is our description of relationship that counts, mr high rep. the systemic rivalry may be sufficient for today, and the economic security strategy may be sufficient if properly enacted today, but unfortunately, due to the prc policies, we may be forced very quickly to change our toolboxes. and by your chat about this summit, high rep, it is not absolutely sufficient and sure. so please step up your actions.
mr president, cooperation with china to meet global challenges is essential. besides, he's a very important business partner. but it is also true that china is increasingly behaving as a competitor and a rival, as the report that we will vote on tomorrow points out. so we need to diversify and reduce the risks in our trade relations with china. it's not about disconnecting us. it would also prove impossible. i think the results of the recent bilateral summit, the first in recent years, are scarce. you were there, mr. high representative, and you had several questions. is there any serious commitment on the part of china to correct the european union's very serious and growing trade deficit with this country? has our dependence on critical materials such as lithium or graphite, which has recently been the subject of restrictions on exports from china, been addressed? have you discussed the necessary cooperation with china in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing (iuu fishing)? this is the subject of this report and was the subject of a wide resolution recently adopted by this house. we must continue to insist on china's influence in order to put an end to the war of aggression against ukraine and not to cooperate in any way in this war of aggression.
mr president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, two years after parliament's last report on eu-china relations, we are in a new, much more complicated situation. the pandemic has highlighted the limits of unbalanced value chains, with supply crises linked to our excessive dependence on one exporter. today we have the first tools, such as the new european law on critical raw materials, to build our strategic autonomy and we will have to strengthen it ever more. the situation is further complicated by the tensions surrounding the russian war of aggression in ukraine. the ambiguity of china's positions on ukraine is unacceptable, let alone china's role in circumventing sanctions against russia. the report we are discussing clearly condemns all this, as well as china's growing military provocation against taiwan. we cannot accept a world order based on unilateral aggression. but watch out. china is not only a competitor or systemic rival, but also a partner. a constructive dialogue, albeit critical, based on our fundamental values remains essential. first, to weigh in on the serious and persistent human rights violations from the uyghurs to tibet, and the list would be long; second, to continue to tackle together global challenges that require chinese involvement, such as climate change, environmental and health protection, food security and financial stability. i conclude: a renewed, coherent and assertive but open approach to china is therefore necessary, but to achieve this, even in this case, a europe that can speak with one voice is needed.
mr. chairman, please! china is investing in critical european infrastructure. they provide state aid to their companies to gain an unfair advantage on the european market. they violate human rights on a daily basis, and yet we are deeply dependent on them. for example, in relation to the green transition, but also in many other areas. we can't let that happen any longer. the eu must be stronger in its own right. we must face the fact that we can no longer depend on china. fortunately, we are breaking away from china in the critical areas, and that is important. but even if china is a systemic rival and competitor, we cannot ignore the fact that china is also a trading partner. and china is a state with which we have to maintain continuous contact. it's just useless to just cut off all communication. so let's get those critical, but realistic glasses on. we can talk to someone even if we don't agree. that's the essence of democracy. we should stick to that. to say that there are some people we do not speak to by definition is simply not the right way to go.
president. - the report we are voting on this week is clear: europe must thoroughly review its relations with china. after all, we have become too dependent on china. concrete measures are also needed against chinese interference and espionage in europe. the report also rightly draws the necessary attention to the continuing violation of human rights. take religious freedom, for example: the single party's supervision of religious activities is becoming increasingly strict. meanwhile, the sinism of religion continues unabated, including by promoting party propaganda in religious buildings. cameras, intimidation and arrests of believers are the order of the day, whether christians, uyghurs or tibetans. nothing less than a strong condemnation fits here. i hope that you, council and commission, will actively address this in your dialogue with china. in this context, it is also of strategic importance to improve relations between the eu and taiwan. after all, taiwan is a reliable partner with which good business can be done.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, in the last decade, home ownership among people under 30 has sharply declined. and whilst home ownership is not the holy grail for ensuring decent and affordable housing for all, we know that the alternative today is relying on an overheated private rental market, where rents have been steadily rising and tenants’ rights and long-term rental contracts are under pressure. at the same time, youth unemployment remains a lot higher than average employment and young people are stuck in a cycle of internships and precarious jobs. generation rent is fed up with the fact that they can’t afford a decent place to live anymore, that serves as a launching pad for the rest of their lives. this is why young people are taking the lead of housing protests all over europe. from the woonprotest in the netherlands to the italian students denouncing that the student housing in italy’s beautiful old university cities have been turned into tourist accommodation rented out on airbnb, leaving them out on the streets. if europe does not want to lose the trust of a disillusioned young generation, it is high time for the european union to step in with decisive action to tackle the european housing crisis and pay particular attention to the needs of young people.
president. - it is clear: we mustn't abandon our young people. they are dealing with the consequences of the climate crisis, the housing crisis, but also a crisis of political leadership. let's be honest, old politics tends to point to scapegoats rather than putting their hands in their own bosoms. it is therefore also very important that political leadership is now shown in europe to ensure that european solutions are reached. giving young people perspective is what it's all about. it's about the emancipation of young people, fair opportunities to contribute in a fair way to society. young people are now being driven out of big cities by rising living costs, and that is also detrimental to the creativity and resilience that we need in these kinds of big cities, but also in our society. we must therefore help municipalities and local authorities and organisations to access european funds to enable these creative solutions when it comes to this crisis. we must ensure that the minimum wage is actually raised in accordance with our european legislation is on the waiting list and we must use all our social resources for a decent future for the new generation in europe. and that's what's going to happen now.
question on the procedure dear colleague, you said that a minority had a different opinion in this room. was it not your group and your groups that argued that every minority should be respected and every minority's opinion taken into account? if that is so, my lady, then you should consider and respect yourself and consider the opinion of the minority. am i messing up or not?
mr president, ‘if you are a parent in one country, you are a parent in every country’. dear colleagues, this quote from ursula von der leyen, from 2020’ was maybe one of the most hopeful messages we as the lgbti+ community got from this commission because, i hope, we all agree that family life shouldn’t be a privilege, let alone something that we deprive a child of. unfortunately, right now it does not reflect the situation of many rainbow families. so let’s foster the hope of all these families. i can’t wait for rainbow families in cross-border situations to get the recognition and protection they deserve, to know that they will be recognised as the parent of their child. i can’t wait for rainbow families moving to another country to choose it based on whether they like it, and not based on whether they will lose the rights over their child or not. i truly hope that i and rainbow families all over europe don’t have to wait long for approval, and that the president of the european commission will play her part in ensuring that ‘if you are a parent in one country, you are a parent in every country’.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the taking up of the measures necessary to comply with the rules of origin laid down in the treaty on european union. it is a matter for the member states, namely family law. i know. this regulation shall be limited to cross-border situations involving the movement to another country. but we can 't get around it . this regulation will then force member states to recognise parental relationships which they consider to be inadequate on the basis of their own considerations. for example, parental recognition where the biological mother is kept outside the birth certificate. i am talking about surrogacy, which many member states are rightly very reluctant to do, in part because of the exploitation that comes with it. i can't possibly go in here. i therefore sincerely hope that our amendments which aim at keeping surrogacy out of the regulation can count on your support. in the meantime, let's continue to invest in healthy and stable families. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on a blue card)
"blue card" question. president, my first question to mr ruissen was: you are talking about an undesirable interference in national law. but isn't what you're proposing just unwanted interference in our private lives and our wombs? but i pressed the button for your last comment on healthy and stable families. can you explain which families you think fall under those? because i think that any family of loving parents who care for their children and choose each other is a healthy and stable family and that you don't have to interfere with choosing a partner and family.
"blue card" answer. you ask what a healthy and stable family is. i am convinced that it is in the best interest of a child to grow up with a father and a mother. and i don't think it's in a child's best interest not to be informed and not to grow up with the biological mother. i believe in the classic marriage and family with the father and the mother. i think that's the best way we can deal with our families in the european union. and again, i think that the primary issue is also that member states must make their own choices.
president, from 16-year-old benjamin from brussels to vanessa nakate from uganda. worldwide, young people are taking the lead in the fight against climate change. in fact, without them, climate would never have been on the agenda. last week at the climate summit in dubai, i spoke a lot with young activists, including the ambitious members of the young climate movement in the netherlands. their message to all the politicians in the house of representatives was as follows: for our generation, climate action is vital. their fighting skills inspire me every day. because when warming above 1.5 degrees seems inevitable, it should not lead to pessimism. without hope, there is no progress and ultimately no change. young people are part of the solution with us. they're giving us a mirror, but we have to get them involved. because even at the climate summit, the gap between young people and decision-makers is huge. and that's while their future is at stake. fortunately, the decommissioning of fossil fuels is finally on paper. and i'm also happy with the extra money for the damages and restitution fund. but these young people remind us that we, and especially they, cannot afford to be delayed any longer. as far as i am concerned, the next climate summit will be attended by 2,400 young people from the most vulnerable regions to climate change, instead of the 2 400 fossil lobbyists. i am sure that they will strike a better balance between existing and future interests. then i'm sure the future will be fossil-free faster. let me finally thank the two main negotiators on behalf of the european union who really made sure that the cop was a success from the council, the spanish presidency, of course, teresa ribera, and wopke hoekstra. it made sure that this cop didn't fail and in the end was a success. i thank them wholeheartedly, and let's make next year a much bigger success.
