mr. chairman, please! the single market is a project worth fighting for. so we should not only praise his accomplishments but also see his shortcomings and work on them. the union market is becoming less competitive with china or even the friendly united states. escaping the increasingly burdensome regulations that are being imposed on other countries will not level the playing field for our entrepreneurs. the commission must address neglected areas of trade such as services and the barriers that still block our economic potential. this is the only way to make our economy more competitive. i call on the commission to make it its aim once again to complete the single market in services with all its freedoms. i also call on the commission to commit itself to a policy that is sensitive to the poorer areas of the common market in the face of growing interregional disparities, so that no region of the european union is left behind. that is my wish for the single market on its 30th birthday.
in writing. the pandora papers revelations over a year ago revealed the ways in which tax structures using front companies operate. they also revealed the people who use these structures. wealthy individuals have skillfully hidden their wealth under the umbrella of 'paper' companies located in tax havens. such actions result in a loss of revenue of eur 20 billion per year for the member states. that is why we urgently need to regulate the activities of such companies. the point is not to ban innovative business practices, but to level the playing field by denying tax benefits to companies that abuse them to avoid paying income tax on wealthy individuals. my country, poland, has been calling for a fair and united tax system in europe for years. a tax system that respects the fiscal sovereignty of the member states but also allows for the flexible shaping of fiscal policy, which is an important pillar of economic policy. the european parliament's report is very reasonable and balanced on this point. it explains precisely the consequences of considering an entity to be a front, and proposes a number of criteria, such as the share of so-called passive income in the total income, which will enable the national authorities to determine the real purpose of the undertaking and to respond to abuses. i hope that this regulation, which is sensitive to some eu members, will be finalised quickly in the council and that the much needed transparency legislation can be put into effect.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. fellow workers ! the commissioner has made a statement which i thank very much for, because it reflects the spirit of the regulation. he said our waste is our responsibility. it would seem that this regulation will make it so, that we will not be ashamed to declare ourselves, and then export shamelessly to the whole world and get rid of the problem. transparency, clarity, accountability and penalties for non-compliance and for illegality. that's the way to do it. i also want to say that i do not think that this regulation should have more responsibility for the producer. but you don't have to worry about moving it, you have to focus and ask the producers to take care of their own waste. and the last thing to ensure transparency is as few delegated acts as possible. let's not let the officials decide what the rules should be.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i'm glad you mentioned that you're in favor of a circular economy. i'm glad you said you were in favor of reducing co2 emissions. i would like you to also address the issue of restricting the export of scrap from europe. it's a decarbonised metal. we export 20 million tons of scrap every year. we're producing steel from scrap four times less co2 than we are producing steel from iron ore. we have decarbonised metal, and we export it abroad, driving up the scrap metal prices in europe and driving up the steel materials prices in europe. steel is the main element of the investment. without steel, there is no investment. i therefore call on the european commission to address the scrap market and the export restrictions. many countries have already restricted the export of scrap metal, protecting their market and decarbonised metal.
mr president, i would like to welcome and, of course, support this initiative on the european capital of local trade and to thank the barcelona commerce foundation in particular and the catalan authorities who have been supporting it. a proposal to highlight the value of all that local trade does and all that it means, and to help it also to face its most pressing challenges, which are not few. if we want to have vibrant cities, neighbourhoods and villages, with identity and social cohesion, urban networks with a diversity of uses, local economies that rely on the commercial fabric as one of their main pillars, it is necessary that the european union should rely on local trade. otherwise, we risk having cities with magnificent shopping centres and leisure areas, but replicable almost anywhere in the world, lacking authenticity and rootless in respect to local commerce and territory. so i congratulate you on the initiative, i hope the commission will take it up and i also join my colleague in proposing barcelona as the first european capital of local trade.
mr president, i also want to support with all my strength this proposal for the creation of a european capital of local trade. it has already been said, i believe it is part of european culture, something that must be preserved. it is essential for the economic activity it generates, for the jobs it creates, for the social cohesion that comes from having local trade in cities and, above all, to keep the vibrancy of our cities. the worst thing that could happen to europe is that all the city centres would look the same or be the same, with department stores, and that we would lose that character which gives proximity trade. so i think that tomorrow parliament will send a clear message. we want to have proximity trade recognised through a specific year. i too join the call for barcelona to be the first capital. in addition, the barcelona city council strongly supports this proposal and i believe that we would be doing a great service to european economic activity. i also want to thank barcelona comerç for their presence here today and for the excellent work they have done so far.
member of the commission. – mr president, i thank the honourable members, and let me also join the warm welcome to the group of petitioners from spain who are present here. today we are discussing a motion for a resolution on the creation of a european capital of local trade and retail, and this proposal is built upon a petition put forward by federations of small retailers keen to give a more prominent role to local trade and small retail. the petition committee was unanimous to support this petition, and the commission also sees value added in this initiative. first, let me emphasise the economic importance of the retail industrial ecosystem. it represents 11.5% of eu value added. it directly employs more than 29 million people across europe, and it’s key for our citizens. consumers spend on average 30% of their budget for their shopping through retail. and of course, the sme dimension is crucial: 5.5 million companies are active in the ecosystem, 99% of which are smes. and we know how the retail ecosystem was badly hurt by the covid-19 pandemic. shops were either closed or bound by stringent precautionary measures. thanks to a strong and ambitious eu response we managed to alleviate many of these impacts, but still smes were the ones which suffered most. so today the energy crisis is also harsh on retailers and in particular on retail smes. we all have in mind the bakeries example, here again we have worked hard to provide emergency solutions through energy policy or state-aid tools. honourable members, retailers play a crucial role in our communities. they provide local employment, proximity to consumers and build the social fabric. a thriving small retail sector is essential for attracting city centres. retail is equally important for maintaining lively rural areas and boosting local supply chains, and through its ‘revitalise retail’ actions, the commission is supporting these objectives. back in 2018, the commission published a guide for competent authorities to help them support their local small retailers to modernise and revitalise. based on the guide, the commission has organised workshops to encourage sharing best practices. during the covid-19 pandemic, we held virtual worship workshops with a focus on sharing innovative ways to keep in touch with consumers. and currently we are gathering stories of retail smes who have successfully embraced innovative green and digital solutions and transformed their business models. they should provide inspiration for smes wishing to respond to the challenges of digital and green transition. last but not least, i would like to mention the transition pathways announced in the industrial strategy update. such pathways support the green and digital transition of industrial ecosystems, among which the retail ecosystem. the commission is planning the launch of a public consultation on it in the coming months. but it may be not enough. in this context, the commission considers that the proposal to create a european capital of local trade and small retail can take the revitalise retail action even further. beyond that, the draft resolution also includes several additional proposed measures, which confirms a lot of enthusiasm, and many ideas to support the small retail sector. and we will assess further how to benefit and how to best follow up on these measures while avoiding duplications. and on the central issue of the creation of the european capital of local trade, the commission would welcome if the european parliament would support the action through a pilot project, and i’m convinced it would be a very positive development in the long-standing commission and the european parliament commitment to support smes and in particular retail smes.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the one-minute debate (rule 172). i would like to inform you that during the one minute presentation, you are invited to speak from your seats.
mr president, the intensity of turkey's aggression against my country, greece, has increased dramatically. ten days ago, a turkish coast guard vessel harassed a coast guard vessel attempting to identify three turkish vessels that were fishing illegally in greek territorial waters off the island of pharmakonisi. the turkish authorities are deliberately seeking to cause an accident in order to manipulate the turkish elections. at the same time, president erdogan has re-instated the casus belli, directly threatening greece with war if it extends the aegean sea to 12 nautical miles south of crete. the greek foreign minister has already written to the high representative, mr borrell, vice-president schinas and the commissioner for fisheries, asking for an immediate reaction. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the european union must take a decision to prevent turkey from being aggressive towards a member state of the european union.
mr president, i want to take this opportunity to raise the very tragic decision by the taliban to ban female staff from working for local and international ngos in afghanistan. this is the decision taken on 24 december. it has had obviously tragic consequences, especially for female staff who were the only breadwinners in their households. it’s had very ridiculous consequences; for example, men giving breastfeeding classes to men in kandahar, according to some reports. but ultimately, of course, it is a tragic breach of international human rights law. and now ngos are faced with a terrible dilemma. do they continue to muddle on? do they continue to provide services, or do they take a stand? and this is a country where two thirds of people rely on aid. so it’s not an easy decision. so i just want to take this opportunity to commend the eu representation in kabul for staying the course, to call on martin griffiths and david bennett and richard bennett and all the local and international ngos working in kabul to stay the course and to take on the taliban on this key issue.
mr president, many galician families are tightening their belts because of the rise in prices and credit. more than 200,000 households who have mortgages, who in july see mrs lagarde raise euribor rates. the european central bank has never shown mercy, now raising interest rates at high speed which impact the people's wallets. after years of being firmly anchored below zero, and after reaching historic lows, euribor interest rates started in january a sharp upward trajectory that is unfair and anti-social. an average of 200 euros a month that drowns out households even more, while banks increase earnings. the bailed out banks, the abandoned families. a mortgage rescue fund is needed for people with low incomes, who allocate more than 30% to pay off the credit of their habitual residence. a fund that should be negotiated with the banks, because they are the ones who should contribute 75% of the funding.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. to think european these days means that sweden must pay more or compromise its interests. in brussels, unlike in stockholm, they know what macron means when he says 'defend european values'. to him, it's exactly the same as french interests. sweden, on the other hand, does not benefit from more planned economies, more power for brussels and money that allows for generous pension systems in other countries. so i wonder: when does kristersson really think it's the right time to wave the swedish flag?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the czech republic has long lacked essential medicines on the market. unfortunately, this is not a consequence of an increased incidence of respiratory disease but rather a systemic problem. we're mostly short of penicillin and other antibiotics and medications for children like cough syrup and so on. the blackout is the worst in 30 years and could last for months. the systemic causes are many: dysfunctional patent law, the production of medicines and the extraction of the substances necessary for their production outside the eu, parallel re-export of medicines between member states with different price levels, the absence of central registers of the availability of medicines directly in individual pharmacies, or the lack of harmonisation of healthcare law. it does not help that we have a minister in the czech republic who is incompetent and appeals to the european union for a solution. unfortunately, all the changes we make in the european union or at the national level are cosmetic. it treats the symptoms of the disease, but not the causes. from my point of view, this whole system needs to be torn down and rebuilt. at the very least, it is necessary to abolish the current patent law and ensure that medicines are not subject to the free movement of goods. i'd be happy to say more about that in the debate tomorrow.
mr president, it seems that the right to freedom of expression and prohibition of discrimination on grounds of political opinion is not more protected in the eu. my country, latvia, is often formally praised for including citizens’ initiatives in the legislative process. but what if initiators are proposing to deprive a large number of citizens of the rights guaranteed in the eu charter of fundamental rights? the latvian parliament begins a new legislative year by moving forward an initiative to deprive so-called kremlin-minded people of the right to stand for elections, to take posts in the state and self-government institutions. in addition to political prisoners, whose number is constantly growing in latvia, almost all of them are journalists. the politically disqualified will appear in the country. how shall the people whom the petitioners call harmful or not loyal to the state be appointed? most likely, as happened in latvia in the times of deportations, on the basis of denunciation. shall we allow those times to return?
mr. chairman, please! january 1945 the soviet offensive continues, which will finally lead to liberation from nazism. at the same time, slavery continues and the murders in silesia continue, carried out by russian soldiers and the new polish government. one totalitarianism has been replaced by another. the first victims of the upper silesia tragedy were women. the sliders. on january 27, the red army entered przyszowice, near rybnik. the red army had all the women - girls, teenagers, mothers, and grandmothers - in one place. all of them were repeatedly and brutally raped. all of them. their sons, husbands, fathers, and grandfathers were murdered for trying to defend them. even the women who were defending the auschwitz refugees, the italian and hungarian citizens, were murdered. in miechowice, now a district of bytom, the inferno lasted three full days. rape in front of the children, husbands or parents of the victims. we need to remind them. we can't let it go. not to scratch old wounds. but we must remember out of respect for the victims. we salute the memory of the victims of the upper silesia tragedy!
madam president! there are right-wing parties, there are right-wing voters and there are right-wing parliaments in europe. that is why there are right-wing governments that will restore order and competitiveness to the european union. and we're waiting for that. and i'm very pleased that the prime minister of sweden has presented his presidency in a very realistic and responsible way. i was just saying congratulations. we agree on those priorities. i'm glad you're supporting energy independence, including nuclear power. this will ensure the economic stability of the european union. we certainly need to think about refugees and reduce this illegal immigration into the european union, because this illegal immigration is simply becoming a problem for the european union. we must eliminate corruption in the european union. from this place, the vice-president of the parliament was lecturing poland and saying that it was illegitimate. he's in custody now. let's look at this. the european union is there to compete economically, not ideologically with asia and america.
madam president, prime minister, please! the ambitious and very specific assumptions of the presidency are important because we have another difficult year ahead, even more difficult than the one that has passed. the war in europe is not over. we must be united in supporting ukraine, both financially and militarily, but also in terms of refugees and war, and in supporting the countries that have taken in ukrainians, including poland, which, apart from the sympathy shown, has not received a single euro. i remind you that millions of ukrainians have crossed through poland, who are safe and well taken care of here. it's a tough, tough year because the "fit for 55" package is still being processed without any major thought. and remember, the energy crisis started before the war. we've made it our own. at the same time, a directive on the taxation of coal and gas energy which will have to be reviewed by the presidency where an increase of 300-500% is foreseen. it's gonna take a lot of courage to tell the europeans about this. finally, it's a tough year, because it's been rocked by corruption scandals in the european parliament. the european parliament is weak. i'm surprised at the courage of the socialist leader, who dares to lecture any country. i'm asking her to take care of the matter in her political camp.
madam president, prime minister, please! i am very pleased that it is the kingdom of sweden that will be leading the european union for the next six months. i'm happy because i know that sweden has courage, courage to act, courage to face challenges. you are joining nato. the union needs bold leadership in these difficult times and consensus in building a european security and defence policy. we need help for ukraine. ukraine is fighting for european values for all of us. but we also need leadership that's not afraid to take on socially important issues. that is why, as a co-rapporteur on the report on the istanbul convention, but also as a feminist, i am pleased that the ratification of this law is a priority for your presidency. i believe that the legislation that we are working on here with swedish mep arba kokalari will help change the reality in many of the homes where violence occurs. i believe that together the european parliament and the council will open a new chapter in the history of women's rights across europe and that the convention on the elimination of violence against women will eventually be ratified by the whole union. thank you very much, sweden!
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! on november 10th last year, a resolution was passed in this house on esports and video games. we are now discussing the next report on this subject. it is not possible to create a predictable legal environment for game manufacturers - an important european industry - if we adopt regulations every two months that contain different recommendations. i have a number of objections to this report, including the age and identity verification system, which violates user privacy. for many years, there has been a pegi video game rating system that helps parents choose games for their children's age. with it and with the help of improved parental controls, parents can effectively monitor what their children are playing. there is no need for the commission to go further into this area, because it is too far-reaching an intervention. it also attempts to interfere by calling for gender balance at all stages of online game development. games are works of art. trying to hold the perpetrators accountable has nothing to do with the freedom that is the foundation of our values.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! access to medicines is a matter of patient safety, and the term 'health security' always opens up a serious discussion about all forms of appropriate response to any public health emergency. the health security of the european union has recently been threatened by a sharp increase in the number of bacterial infections after countries lifted pandemic restrictions, which has resulted in shortages of antibiotics and essential medicines. while i am aware that the underlying causes of drug shortages are complex and multifaceted, involving manufacturing challenges, industry constraints and economic elements, i still believe that a strategy to address the problem must be two-fold. on the one hand, the exposure of manufacturers to supply shocks should be reduced, and on the other hand, solutions should be considered that result in improved market surveillance mechanisms and a clear specification of the catalogue of problems and precise data on medicines that are lacking. i'm finished. while the restoration of drug safety will have to wait, we must think about reorganising the european pharmaceutical environment today.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. cancer has been proving to us for many years and every day it continues to prove that without a common fight against cancer, a european fight against cancer, a global fight against cancer, we have no chance. and this has been proven by the pandemic, which has killed hundreds of thousands of people. it's proven that without a concerted effort, we can't save lives. and this is the moment when we have to decide what we've been talking about in the special committee on cancer. this is the moment when europe has to say 'enough' and europe has to start negotiating prices for medicines for europeans, buying medicines together. in europe, we need to create a system of stockpiling of medicines that are critically needed so that there is no situation where there are more waves of the virus coming and people are running helplessly from pharmacy to pharmacy all over europe and they can't buy medicines. politicians are supposed to save people's lives and health. europe can build roads, schools, bridges. europe must be at the forefront of the fight against disease and the fight for human medicine. i often hear that health is in the hands of the member states. it's all true. but you can either stand by and watch it happen or you can disagree with it. if the rules are in the way of saving people, then you have to change the rules to save people. we need to start buying medicines together and we need to build up a european stockpile of medicines that are critically needed. otherwise, people will die, and we won't be able to stand by and watch. i'm appealing that, commissioner. we've talked about this many times.
member of the commission. i can speak in this debate primarily about the measures we are taking under the common agricultural policy. these are new strategic plans that support farmers. it is here that we must say that our farmers are up to the task. the fact that in such difficult conditions, with such a huge increase in energy prices, fertiliser prices, with such a huge increase in the prices of animal feed, that food security in the european union is maintained and ensured, is a great effort by our farmers and support for farmers with the instruments available in the common agricultural policy. although i may not have mentioned it in detail in connection with one of the previous questions, it is indeed a problem of inflation, also of the common agricultural policy itself. the budget for the common agricultural policy is about eur 55 billion per year. if we compare it to the total value of agricultural production in the european union, it will increase in 2022 from around eur 450 billion to eur 536 billion, thanks to this price increase, and the expenditure on the common agricultural policy will remain unchanged. this is starting to become a problem. the member states decide what the budget of the european union as a whole is, including the common agricultural policy, but this budget is becoming less effective. we are in danger of a situation where it will be less effective and less motivating for farmers to achieve very ambitious goals.
president, commissioner, thank you for coming, because everyone who says inflation immediately says energy prices. but we must also be able to talk about food prices - you mentioned that yourself. now, with the rise in food prices, we can indeed look at the symptoms, but we must also dare to look at the root causes. food prices and inflation are mainly - i think - about fertilisers and animal feed. prices that are absolutely off the charts today. we know. we are very dependent on imports from third countries, from non-eu countries, both for animal feed and for fertilisers. the heads of state or government have said in a versailles declaration that we must become more independent of these third countries for our imports. in fact, there have been calls for a european protein strategy. so my question to you is: has the commission already worked on this european protein strategy and if so, when can we expect your proposal?
member of the commission. thank you very much for asking. first of all, it should be emphasized that the higher food price increases than inflation are due to the fact that food production has been more affected by the increase in costs. because while the rise in energy or fuel costs - and in general all energy sources - has affected the whole economy, agriculture has also been hit by the high cost of fertilisers, which are linked to energy costs. that's why this food inflation is so visible above the general level of inflation. as far as fertilisers are concerned, the commission has proposed everything within its powers, within its power. we've offered all the instruments we can. most of them depend on the will and decision of the member states, for example whether or not they support their fertiliser producers. i know that there are plans to provide such aid in poland, for example. aid to producers should lead to a reduction in fertiliser prices, followed by a reduction in production costs and a reduction in prices. but you have to remember that not all of the costs are dependent on the farmers, and i would even say that the cost of food is less dependent on the farmers' share of the price. we see that even this increase in agricultural income of about 13 percent doesn't match the increase in food prices, which is over 18 percent. so farmers are not the beneficiaries of this increase. some people try to interpret this as a price increase, but farmers are getting more for their produce and things are generally better. unfortunately, no. agricultural income has not increased enough to offset the increased costs of production. that's why farmers are in a tough spot. i hope that the new strategic plans contained in the cap and a certain flexibility in those plans will help to overcome these difficulties.
mr president, commissioner, you spoke of fertilisers and indeed: i look forward to your action plan on integrated nutrient management and whether there will be room for renure products. but i asked you very specifically about the timing of your european protein strategy. i was hoping you would answer that.
member of the commission. i did not reply to the honourable member - i missed it. yes, we're in the middle of it. is this going to be a status strategy document? is that a message? it's not over yet, but we're working on a concept for growing plant protein production in the european union. this is very important for improving such sustainable agricultural development, ensuring a balance between agriculture and livestock, greater independence of agriculture. that's one of the effects. i have made statements on this subject here in the european parliament in one of the previous debates. i see the need for such a strategic approach and the preparation of a concept of action in this area and i am sure that such a document will be produced.
i would point out that we are trying to strike a balance between the factions and their strengths. we have enough word messages now and would close the list. i'm just pointing out that if someone misses, the other members of the team will follow. but we have enough reports.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. let the facts speak. poland today and poland eight years ago. bread from 3.30 for almost 6 zlotys. the government will eat itself. for bread, 3.60 butter for more than 7 zlotys. that's the wealth they've funded the residents for the last eight years. they gave the polish citizens such an eldorado with sunflower oil for 13 zlotys per liter. rice bowl plus - this is happening right in front of our eyes. people borrow to survive until the first. they're putting rings in the pawn shop, and the seniors are picking out prescription drugs to buy. you're not gonna see that on tvp. inflation in the law and justice is almost 17%. the euro area is 9%. that's what happens when you're incompetent. in this context, commissioner, have you made recommendations to the polish government to reduce inflation? have you indicated to them the specific instruments that need to be launched today? if not, i'm asking you to act on this as soon as possible.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you have said, the situation is serious. we have been betrayed by some of our colleagues who preferred qatar, who preferred morocco to european projects. they'll be rendered unfit for harm. justice is the way, let's trust it. but we inherit this great mess, this general sense of distrust, even as war looms on europe's doorstep and we must show an unfailing common front against foreign powers who want to destabilize us. so yes, you said it: we need to strengthen the rules on transparency. of course you have to. we have friendship groups with third countries. important reminder: countries are lobbies. they're powerful lobbyists. we can't continue to have friendship groups with lobbyists. this has to stop immediately. we must also all re-examine our past links and work with these countries. i really want to stress the urgency of freezing our work with qatar, with morocco. i did so in my committee on transport, in the context of the air service agreement with qatar. the procedure is suspended, but the agreement is still in force. so, you get it, we have to move fast. so let's set up a high authority on the transparency of public life. let's set up a special commission to measure the phenomenon and stop it from spreading. this is the price we will pay to restore citizens' confidence, not only in the european parliament but in all the european institutions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, more than a month after the start of this scandal, the feeling of anger and disgust has not changed. the european parliament, our home, has been undermined by tenants and guests who have set their own interests as their sole value, seeking to trample on the struggle for human rights, which is so important in this institution. now is the time for responsibility. we need to get the truth out in the open and punish the guilty. this very house needs to be renovated to make it as impervious as possible to future threats from outside and inside. we are fully cooperating with the judiciary to clarify matters, including the decisions on the waiver of parliamentary immunity which we are going to examine. new rules are needed, more checks on lobbying, strengthening the transparency register, which is currently underused, and setting up an independent and accountable european body on ethical issues by the end of the legislature. and the revolving door mechanism between public and private for former members of parliament must be banned for at least five years. we need more ambition in this respect than the proposals put forward by the presidency so far. the house of european democracy has been violated. but let me be clear, you cannot allow anyone to sell or buy it. we will continue to fight for our integrity.
madam president, the scandal before us should serve as an opportunity. an opportunity to do what our predecessors failed to do in this legislature, before the end of this term. and i say this because in 2016, the european commission had proposed a mandatory register, mandatory for everyone. a transparency register which every member of the european parliament could and should have followed, together with the commission, together with the council of the european union. however, this house itself, in the last legislature, decided to throw out that mandatory register, to remove it and to have a voluntary one in which everyone can do as they please. and so i am pleased to see that the president of the european parliament has come forward with a number of proposals. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the new rules on the transparency of the financial statements of the european union are not yet in force. and i believe we need to go much further than that. we should not only have what the commission proposed in 2016 - a mandatory transparency register - but this should be mandatory for every meeting that any member of the european parliament has with any other individual, organisation or country, because we are here to represent our citizens and we should always be transparent to them about what we are doing on their behalf in this parliament.
madam president, madam commissioner, in the face of the regrettable and extremely serious case of corruption which came to light at the end of the year and of which we have more information today, it is time for us to demand a response with the utmost force and determination from the european parliament, from this institution, because it is the only way to restore the credibility of this house, of this house. firstly, we demand maximum cooperation in the judicial process to clarify everything that happened and exemplary consequences for those involved. two: reforms of the rules of procedure of this house (we already have some proposals for reform). but we are not only calling for new rules, but also for measures to ensure that the rules we have set are respected. greater transparency, greater accountability for members. three: democracies are under attack. this has been an example, with accomplices inside, but it is time to put in place ruthless mechanisms so that third parties, third countries do not intervene in the decision-making processes of our democracies. because what is at stake is trust in our institutions, which is the basis for the functioning of democratic systems and also for the functioning of the european parliament.
madam president! if you're a politician, you should know what ethics and standards are and follow them. if you don't know how to behave, behave properly. how can you, ladies and gentlemen, fight for the rights of women and lgbt people and at the same time take bribes from countries that are far from meeting those standards? that is hypocrisy. and it's sad that now we all have to be ashamed of our colleagues and actually subject to this kind of collective responsibility and negative evaluation by voters. it's good to be decent and honest, but i also want to say, ladies and gentlemen, that if someone is not that, if someone is a bribe, if someone loves money and it is the standard for him, then his behavior will not change any rules and no directives. just like the criminal code doesn't protect society from perpetrators of violence, rape, crime, theft.
madam president, this weekend i was in the saharawi refugee camps, at the 16th congress of the polisario front, in that inhospitable place where the shame of moroccan geopolitics, with the consent of other european powers, has left the saharawi people in extremely difficult living conditions. the illegal occupation of western sahara by the occupying power, morocco, which is systematically violating un resolutions, is causing morocco to act also in the european institutions to prevent any debate on western sahara. we have seen this in the european parliament's committees on fisheries, agriculture and rural development and international trade. this explains their behaviour: the creation of corruption networks backed by ambitious meps who want to have perks, holidays and influence of power. he comes to the european parliament to try to influence people by buying their will and here he has accomplices. this is a matter for denunciation and this house must get to the bottom of this scandal with a special committee of inquiry. moroccogate is the scandal that starts this corruption network, not qatargate. many of us will not be silenced, of course, because morocco cannot continue to enjoy this impunity in the european parliament and in the other european institutions. he is guilty of illegal occupation, murder, torture, repression and violation of freedom of expression.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. corruption is unfortunately perhaps the most serious cancer afflicting european institutions today. the truth is, white-collar criminals can't get away with it. the vice president, who is in prison today on suspicion of corruption, has repeatedly attacked my country, poland. i'm thinking today and you have to look at who cared about shouting here the loudest, that poland take measures when it is struggling with what ukraine is struggling with, helping to overcome the biggest aggressor in the world. who cared about that? we'll have to look at that today. i want to be clear, madam president! it's worth coming to poland. it is worth to learn from our experience, because we are the ones who really have anti-corruption solutions both in the polish parliament and in many other institutions. we have public declarations of assets, we have an anti-corruption law that prohibits the combination of different functions, we have a ban: if you are a professional mp, you cannot work in another profession and benefit from it, you cannot benefit from lobbying. he has to tell us everything. madam vice president, commissioner, i have to go. welcome to poland. that's a great example. and stop attacking her, because that's what russia wants. i don't know if russia is lobbying here, but i think it is, and i have reason to believe it is.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. fellow workers! i don't know if you're not wondering about the socialists' fiery speeches. it's like they're trying to shout reality. they're the ones who talk about procedures, about rules, and they themselves, in their own circles, can't explain this scandal. let's not be fooled and be credible. why does the bureau of the european parliament, why does the european parliament accept the vice-president of the parliament to be the socialist? they should be held collectively responsible. let us forget about the dignified representation that should be in the bureau of the european parliament. let's go through all the lobbyists. let's look at the ngos. do ngos, associations and foundations tell us who they are funded by? big scandals are sure to come as we review regulations that clearly serve specific companies and specific lobbies. let's look at this, because there were also statements from the european commission, which did not say anything about how gazprom and russia influenced our decisions.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have been dealing mainly with poland, which has shown the world what the rule of law is. look how the poles behaved towards ukraine. you have to ask yourself, was it a smokescreen to do all this business with qatar? because now don't pretend that this is just a few people, because one of the organizations, notably no peace without justice, whose secretary is arrested for corruption, is funded by who? the european union, france and germany. by some strange coincidence, this organization has been attacking poland, perhaps to distract you so you can do your own thing. moreover, corruption is political corruption. and that's what's brought europe to where it is today. the socialists are here, and gerhard schröder is still a member of the socialists, the biggest symbol of political corruption, corrupted by putin. you do nothing about it, and you're gonna be teaching everybody here. first, you look in the mirror and you clean it up. it would be very good if you could answer that question. what about the german funding of this organization? this is the key.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, let me begin by thanking the rapporteur, ms isabel wiseler-lima, the shadow rapporteurs and all the members who have contributed to this annual report on human rights and democracy. the human rights situation is worsening across the world. your report, looking back at the last 12 months, takes note of this clearly. we have seen the worst violation of human rights in ukraine, afghanistan, tigray and iran, to name just the most recent and dramatic examples. the universality of human rights are increasingly questioned. some countries are pushing new alternative narratives to change agreed international human rights law and to erode the fundamental rights that belong to every human being. this is something which we cannot accept. human rights are not a matter of choice, but are the basis of human dignity. they are also in the dna of the european union and lie at the foundation of all relations with the rest of the world and they are a core priority for eu foreign policy. we will condemn, systematically, human rights violations and apply sanctions against the worst offenders. the new eu global human rights sanctions regime that we created in 2021, as requested by this house, allows us to go after violations wherever they occur. in december 2022 the 24th eu-ngo forum gathered more than 230 human rights defenders from over 70 countries to discuss how to stop impunity and build a road to accountability and justice. this will remain one of our key priorities in 2023. we are setting up a new global observatory on the fight against impunity with a budget of around eur 20 million for up to five years to gather information and build a knowledge-base on genocide, crimes against humanity and other serious human rights violations. in 2023, we will support the international criminal court via our co-funding of eur 7 million for 21 to 27 and the eu exceptional assistance measure to the office of the prosecutor, karim khan, prosecutor of the icc, eur 7.25 million for 18 months, adopted in june 2022 on vicious war crimes in ukraine. finally, at the multilateral level, we will build on what we achieved in 2022. like in the cases of belarus, ukraine, afghanistan and myanmar, the rights of the child and freedom of religion and belief, and will continue to defend international human rights and humanitarian law, supporting strong resolutions addressing grave human rights situations. we will continue using all our bilateral channels to protect and support those that defend human rights and democracy on the ground. since 2015 the eu human rights defenders mechanism has supported more than 58 000 human rights defenders and their families in more than 120 countries, through eur 35 million of eu funding. as an example, a special support has been mobilised for 300 afghan defenders. since january 2022, we helped at least 3630 individuals at risk. this is never enough, we know. to further step up our support we have recently renewed our commitment to fund our human rights defenders mechanism with eur 30 million for 2022-2027. we also need to make the private sector more involved on businesses, trade and human rights. in 2022, the commission proposed draft legislation on corporate sustainability due diligence and on banning forced labour products from eu markets. we hope to adopt these legislations this year. countering racial and other forms of discrimination, defending gender equality and women’s and girls’ rights is and will stay at the core of our action. other concrete areas for work in 2023 include digital transformation and surveillance technologies, the human rights consequence of climate change and environmental degradation and the right to development. honourable members, in 2023 the international community, and we as the european union, celebrate the 75th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights. we are already at work with the united nations, partners across the world, as well as civil society and others. may this anniversary be used to join our forces and reverse the current global trend. we have to make sure that 2023 is a year of action and results for human rights. thank you for your long-standing and principled support.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. – mr president, women’s rights are human rights; in 2023, it cannot be anymore an empty slogan, but it’s still a case. millions of girls and women and lgbti+ people around the world continue to experience everyday discrimination in the enjoyment of civil, cultural, economic, political and social rights. in every conflict and every crisis, girls and women always pay the highest price. they are on the front of the victims and they are often even used as a weapons of war. fighting human rights globally, we need also to be credible, commissioner. we live in a europe of inequalities where women in poland have less rights than in 2004 when poland was entering eu. where within european union we have lgbti+ zones. so while talking about human rights worldwide, we should think also about our own credibility. and it’s always the case.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. it is good that after a few months of appeals in this room for the establishment of such an international tribunal, we actually agree that it should be established. there's just a question of pace and time. and today we call for it to be built as soon as possible, as soon as possible to start work, because ukraine not only needs weapons to win and save its homeland. ukraine needs financial help, that's obvious. but there is also a need for hope of justice, for no crime can go unpunished, no criminal can go unpunished. and let's not say that this is a special tribunal, that we're looking for a legal formula. a dozen or so similar international criminal tribunals have already been established. we know what the legal basis is. there were tribunals for the criminals of the former yugoslavia, lebanon, rwanda, sierra leone, and the nuremberg tribunal. let's move quickly and launch this tribunal immediately, because it is an important signal to our security on the continent, and also to putin that his time is running out.
we'll have the honour to note that the honourable member will be taking the floor at the next debate. (end of the line)
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday, 19 january 2023. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the eu's response to protests and executions in iran (2023/2511 ((rsp)).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, i bow to the victims, to the women, men and children who were brutally executed. a regime that kills even children has no reason to exist. we stand with their families, their friends, with the 18 000 prisoners, and with those in ukraine who have lost loved ones to the use of iranian drones. the killing must stop. there must be an end to the death penalty. we need clear statements, including here in parliament. we as a group support any sanction, any sanction that is specifically directed against the perpetrators of such a policy of contempt for humanity. and we do not support sanctions that target iranian society. and i say to you, we have to do much, much more. i call on all 705 members of this house to personally advocate for prisoners facing the death penalty. you can take sponsorship. push it! pressure the various international institutions, but also the iranian institutions. let us ensure that not a single person in our 27 member states is deported to iran. we need an effective, really effective, europe-wide moratorium on deportations to iran. and we cannot simply carry on a symbolic policy and be satisfied with that. iranian civil society needs much more, it needs support in networking in the resistance. the struggle for a free and democratic iran requires a long breath, our soul and our heart.
madam president, for iranians who are victims of the oppressive regime of the ayatollahs, the eu is not just the commission, parliament or the council, it is also the heads of state and government of its member states. the eu speaks to the world from this parliament, but so does each european leader with their actions. the intensity of the statements of the european institutions are unquestionable – in this we are the champions. but these messages are not compatible with the fact that just four weeks ago european leaders attended the world cup in qatar, which is one of iran’s main allies – business as usual – while the regime of the ayatollahs repressed and killed. statements are good, but actions are better.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the iranian revolution has the face of a young woman who burns a scarf as a symbol of oppression against women. today marks the 123rd day of the iranian revolution, started by the brave women of iran. her demands have gone far beyond women's rights. the protesters are demanding the removal of the regime, the religious government and economic reforms. protests have swept 282 cities in iran. i would like to introduce you to 18-year-old arshi takdastan, a death row inmate, whom i have taken over as my political patron. arshia was arrested with a group of young people in september 2022 during anti-regime protests in nouszahr. in the first stage of the investigation, the entire group was tortured into making incriminating statements against each other. later, the same method was used to obtain a confession. the verdict is not yet final. any of you can take on such a patronage, but there will be casualties. i believe that the fate of the iranian revolution can change the fate of the middle east and the world. that's up to us, too. solidarity with iran.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday, 19 january 2023.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy: 'the road to 2023' - towards a stronger eu-latin america partnership (2023/2512 (rsp)).
i have a message for you. since we are very late and there is one more item on the agenda, i am closing the record for the moment as part of the "catch the eye" procedure.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next meeting will be held on wednesday 18 january 2023 at 9.00 a.m. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the minutes of today's sitting will be submitted to parliament for approval tomorrow after the vote.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! i shall start with the recent conclusions of the european council, which my group considers to be very positive. first of all, support for ukraine. indeed, it's been almost a year since putin's barbaric war on ukraine. and this aid that comes from the european union is also very important and very necessary. today, ukraine needs weapons first and foremost. i am very grateful to president michel for the statement he made here too that such support should be given to ukraine. it is also good news to reflect - very late, but nevertheless - that if europe wants to be safe, it must be able to defend itself. so we need to work closely with nato and finally rebuild our defence industry, because what has happened in many member countries is practically disarmament. today, it's clear that those were mistakes. i also have to tell you something that's not in these conclusions, but should be in them. today the european union, all the european institutions, all the bodies of the european union are facing a huge corruption crisis. and we cannot keep silent about this, ladies and gentlemen, because if we want to talk about making decisions about the future, if we want to talk about the energy transition, if we want to talk about the fact that the decisions taken by the european institutions and bodies are to be credible, then we should first of all do everything we can at this moment to clean up the european union of this corruption scandal, to clarify all the issues and not give any more grounds for the fact that when the european union talks about the rule of law, many of us have the feeling that it is only about the rule of law in many european countries, which the rule of law does not break, only to cover up scams and the breach of the rule of law here in the european union.
in writing. we are gathered here today to take stock of the european council meeting of 15 december 2022. we welcome the increased consolidation of eu countries' efforts to help the struggling ukraine. however, the lack of action by some countries in this area is a reflection of the fact that the eu is not yet fully involved in the process. it is difficult not to mention germany's inaction on the issue of arms supplies. ukraine has been criminally invaded and must first defend itself. if a country like germany takes such a passive stance in the face of russian aggression, which has been going on for almost a year, it calls into question the values of mutual solidarity and cooperation between the countries of the community. the need for a credible explanation of the corruption scandal in the european parliament is also of paramount importance. evidence is mounting that russian money has also been used to corrupt members of this house, to buy favor with bribes for some countries and to put others under the thumb. we know how many debates and resolutions attacking my country, poland, have taken place so far. it is no coincidence that these events were initiated mainly by the people who are now in prison and their political circles. there was no basis for these debates to take place at all. so now is the time to review these slanderous and baseless accusations! have the courage to admit your mistakes!
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. i listened carefully to what you said. i see you don't like what america is doing, the united states. i don't like what china is doing. how do you feel about this situation, where germany is giving €200 billion in public aid to its companies in the european union, france is giving over €100 billion in public aid, and the other 27 eu countries have no such option? do you think this is a market disturbance? should we really be instructing america what to do? and should america wait for this slowdown that's in the european union? i just wanted to ask you what you think about it. is it fair that germany, with such a huge budget, can support its own companies? the french have money. they can support french companies. what about other countries? what about poland, romania, hungary, the czech republic, slovakia, the poorer countries that don't have that kind of money? isn't that a lack of solidarity in your eyes?
madam president, commissioner, minister, i have to ask you to stop this. ladies and gentlemen! the new eu strategy should identify the key technologies and industrial sectors that determine the competitiveness of the eu economy. and it's also incredibly important for good jobs. the strategy should take into account digitalisation and the need to strengthen digital skills in society, in particular in the workplace. the use of new technologies is increasing, but there is still a lack of appropriate digital skills and unequal access to technology. job creation and quality are essential elements of the eu's europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the economy is changing, the world is changing, and so are the forms of employment. there are fewer and fewer permanent contracts or full-time jobs in general. we also have the phenomenon of working poverty, despite full employment. the strategy therefore cannot lose sight of the need for high quality, good jobs.
madam president, nobody really cares about the rule of law in spain. no matter how much you fuss about it, the partido popular certainly don’t care. they have forced this debate to score political points at home, even though they themselves shamelessly instrumentalise spain’s institutions over and over again. under their watch there have been illegal police operations, friendly judges that look the other way and relentless political persecution. the socialists don’t care either. their government has taken over the repression of a peaceful political movement through any means necessary, including political espionage. and this parliament? well it has never expressed serious concern about the serious systematic violations of the rule of law in spain. and now it bills itself to be used as a pawn in this petty ridiculous political fight. do you want to debate impunity in spain? then start by looking at how socialists and populists both cover up the scandalous corruption of the spanish crown!
madam president, last week we had the spanish minister of justice in the libe committee to discuss the rule of law in spain. it was very interesting. she said many fascinating things about vaccination strategies, about green hydrogen energy, about organ transplants. she didn’t say much about justice, which you could think is strange for a minister of justice. but looking back, it actually makes sense because there is not much about justice and the rule of law that a minister can proudly share in spain, and the interests of this spanish government are certainly not with justice, the separation of powers or checks and balances. when they do not like the composition of the council of the judiciary, they just adopt a law to prevent it from functioning. when they need to appoint an independent attorney—general, they just pick a loyal party colleague – the former minister of justice. when they need judges in the constitutional court, they pick another lawyer and former minister of justice and a director—general. no wonder the minister of justice last week shockingly called the constitutional court a political body! when they adopt new legislation against and ignoring all those advisory reports and the consequences are that sentences are reduced and sexual offenders and rapists are released early, what do they do? they blame the judges for misinterpreting the law. when they find parliamentary democracy too difficult, they just rule by decree. this is truly bizarre, because two and a half years ago iratxe garcia stood here and she blamed viktor orbán for ruling by decree. she said it was like trying to rule like a proper dictator. i agreed with her then and i still agree with her today, but where is the criticism of prime minister sanchez then? he who is breaking the ‘ruling by decree’ records at home? truly, he is the ‘king of decrees’. is that democracy, dear colleagues of the s&d, or is that trying to rule like a dictator? you cannot have it both ways. packing courts and independent bodies with your political friends, politicising the judiciary, ruling by decree, blaming judges for your own mess. this is page—by—page out of the populist and autocrat playbook. it is beneath spain, it is beneath europe, and it needs to stop!
the commission has already done so. let's be clear: this is an attack on women's rights. a woman is only free when she can decide about her body. free choice of the body, which means that every woman can decide for herself whether to terminate a pregnancy voluntarily. free, that is free from any compulsion, from any psychological pressure, from any outside pressure. if a woman is given images of fetuses on her way to the abortion clinic, if a woman has to listen to the heartbeat before the abortion, then that woman is not free. if this is happening in castile and león, it concerns us all. this is reminiscent of orbán's hungary, it is unacceptable. they're manipulative and patronising measures that have a drastic impact on women's lives, and they create fear and coercion, but they don't make abortions any less, they just make them more dangerous. the far-right vox is playing with the lives of women and their political supporters in the conservatives as well. the spanish government has done so much good for women. a genuine voluntary decision we must defend that. france is showing us the direction in which the debate must go. the right to abortion is enshrined in the constitution. in so many european countries, voluntary abortion is regulated in the criminal code. thus it is said and communicated to every woman: 'you are doing something forbidden, but we are merciful and absolve you of your guilt.' i want every woman in spain, as in every european country, to know that she and she alone has the right to decide for herself about her body, and we must support her in this.
madam president, the spanish pp is presenting a legal technicality here today as an attempt to favour sex offenders. the legislator's will was the opposite. in fact, it has improved the criminal definition of rape. as the objective seems to be shared, i would urge that we lower the tone and find a solution by agreeing a better text in the house. and, by the way, apply the same recipe to a deeper problem. spain does not have a problem of impunity. he has a serious problem with judicial independence. the system of renewal of the general council of the judiciary and that of the constitutional court is born of a bipartisanship that no longer exists. the same people who are arguing here have got used to the judiciary's political role and so sentences were handed down which, when they affected us, the 'others', were applauded by those who are now arguing. decisions that many experts relate more to state nationalism and abuse of power than to law, which treat political processes as criminal cases, which deny a diversity that exists, that is expressed and that must be recognized and respected. they started by applauding an unjust conviction of the president of the basque parliament for obeying the law. they ended up suffering a misfortune: a constitutional court with an expired mandate forbidding parliament to debate. a lamentable example of political activism from the supposed guarantor of constitutional values. a full-blown breakdown in the separation of powers. at your disposal to end this crisis on the basis of dialogue, understanding and meeting. i encourage european leaders to join in the effort, with the level of discretion they need, now that they know that our repeated complaints and forecasts were fully justified.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. well, the spanish government, like the typical leftist, does exactly the opposite of what it says. for years, he's been attacking poland for electing the judiciary council by politicians, even though he's doing exactly the same thing, exactly the same way. moreover, they have just appointed their own politicians as judges, including the minister of justice. your judiciary, my spanish friends, like the german one, is the most politicized in all of europe. only, of course, the commissioner pretends not to see it. it is very funny that you have repeatedly passed resolutions in this house - and this applies to both the ppe and the left - that politicians should not elect judges. then you come to your country and no matter who's in charge, you do exactly that. you say that the most important thing is the issue of gender and the defense of women. how many times have we heard that from this speaker? then you pass an amendment to the penal code that reduces the penalties for sex crimes, almost 200 rapists get out, and women are now in greater danger. do you want a europe where the left and the communists can lie with impunity, allow rapists to prey and destroy the rule of law? and yet they say they do it all in the name of truth, justice and the rule of law. typical lefty. the darkest is under the lighthouse.
madam president, please. the spanish minister of justice found himself saying here in the european parliament last week that it was perfectly fine for a politician to be appointed to the constitutional court because it is a body of a political nature. he said this after they had appointed their former minister, a spanish socialist politician, to the constitutional court. now imagine what would have happened if this had happened in poland or hungary. politicians who are constantly hypocritically concerned about democracy and the rule of law would have immediately initiated proceedings, sanctions and so on. interestingly, there is no rule of law case against spain, and the european commission does not want to withhold eu funds from the spanish. it is simply not because there is a left-wing government in power that accepts all the brussels madness without criticism. what is this, if not a classic case of double standards? it is time to recognise that the use of the rule of law for political purposes is wrong and destroys european cooperation. the same rules apply to everyone, even the spanish socialist government.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as a portuguese, i feel a strong connection to spain, a country with which we share borders, culture and many affections. i am therefore very sorry that in spain, as in portugal, the socialists share the same defects. for the socialists, power for power's sake is all that matters, and to achieve that any deal must take precedence over reasons of principle. in portugal, in order to govern despite losing the elections, the socialists and antónio costa have allied themselves with the extreme left who reject the euro, nato and the european union itself. similarly, in spain, the socialists and pedro sánchez give the left-wing radicals and the pro-independence parties everything they need to stay in power. when the rule of law is attacked, acts are reprehensible on principle and not because a government is left or right. in spain, the socialists and pedro sánchez want to visualize the country and control the judiciary, thus breaking with decades of democratic consensus. what is condemnable in hungary or poland must also be condemned in spain. this parliament must speak up. this parliament must be able to speak out and to fight for the principle of separation of powers and the rule of law in spain. because by fighting for the rule of law in spain, we are fighting for democracy throughout the european union.
madam president, commissioner reynders, the image of spain is tarnished by those who weaken the institutions. the socialist party and podemos government agreed to eliminate the crime of sedition precisely with those who committed it by organizing an unconstitutional independence referendum, declaring independence and passing laws of disconnection. the government argues that our penal code should be adapted to that of other european countries. the european union does not have such a harmonisation of criminal law, because criminal law is tailored to the specific circumstances of each member state. spain needs the crime of sedition because the nationalists threaten daily to break the coexistence between citizens. or do you think that the rest of the european countries would not defend themselves against a coup d'état? please, let's not weaken the institutions we've worked so hard to build. let us not leave our judges without the tools to defend the rule of law.
madam president! i am referring to one of my previous speakers: european democracy teaches you to lose. i ask mr lópez aguilar, who is sitting here, why did you not pass on this maxim of life to the polish opposition, which you so willingly supported, when you took the stick entitled "lawful rule" and even on the territory of our country you could hit with this stick? you'll see how much it hurts today. because today's issue is your government. i am far from interfering in any internal affairs of a member state, because it was in poland that we said that judicial matters are not the treaty domain of the european union. you fell into your own trap, and the state fell into its own trap. but since i'm here, i don't agree with the idea that freedom of speech and freedom of religion should be violated, that laws should be introduced in countries that restrict freedom of religion. and that's the way it is in your country. you did. and i don't agree with sex offenders running around the country, having their sentences reduced, making women, especially women, feel unsafe. and i dedicate this to the lord and ask the lord to stop interfering in the affairs of our country as well.
madam president, dear colleagues, as deputy chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and. home affairs (libe), a person from poland, a member of the polish opposition, and also as an ex minister, i have some very friendly advice for you. you would like to lead a common europe in several months with the lady who was in brussels last week – such an aggressive minister who was not answering any questions. let us think about your image. the standards are the same for everybody in europe, the law also. you cannot be above the law, even if you are a member of the government. so let’s think: on a green light you can go, but on the red, even if you love this colour, you cannot go. you are very close to the red light, and i have advice to change this person, because i cannot imagine the european council meeting with a person who would like to protect the rule of law with this language, which is very similar to our colleagues from the far right. the second piece of advice, which is much more important, is that you have to change this direction. you still have time, and it is high time to change it, because you are on a slippery slope, very similar to other well-known ways. i don’t want to prolong this discussion. this is my friendly advice to you: don’t make a mistake on that.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. over €65 billion in 2021 was allocated by the european investment bank to invest in cities and regions, innovation and small business development, climate and environment protection and infrastructure. in poland, smes received almost €2 billion in funding, and €6.5 billion and support for 670 000 jobs is a record achievement in the bank's more than 30 year history in poland. the eib has played a particularly leading role in the fight against the covid-19 crisis across the european union by offering these additional funds in the framework of the relief packages, which confirms that the eib group is ready to respond very quickly to the crisis and is effective in delivering funds to key sectors of the economy in a short time. however, the fact that successive economic and financial crises, high energy prices and rising raw material prices have a serious impact on the competitiveness of european smes obliges the eib to continue its ongoing surveillance and to continue its efforts to increase support through additional growth capital to enable companies to scale up and expand in the european and global markets.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! also in this debate there are some curious allegations against my country, poland. and i would like to point out that in this report, which we are discussing, there is no indication of irregularities in the spending of eu funds by poland. on the contrary, poland is among the leading countries - as my honourable predecessor, mr czarnecki, rightly pointed out - among the leading countries in transparently spending eu funds, as well as among the leading countries in combating and identifying any irregularities in their spending. so i'd like to ask you why the kpo funds haven't been sent to poland yet? why is he trying to scare poland and poles by withholding funding under the next budget perspective? we keep hearing some nonsense about alleged violations of the rule of law in poland. and what about the rule of law in the heart of european democracies, here in the european parliament? each day brings devastating news. those on the left of the room who are so eager to attack poland have the most behind their collar. the question is, who funded the reports that targeted my country? morocco, kuwait? i don't think it was. perhaps the open question is russia, russia, which is consistently trying to destroy the image of poland in the eyes of european citizens. poland is a state governed by the rule of law and eu funds due to poland are spent in a transparent manner.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. i don't think there's anyone in this room who would say that we shouldn't fight both right-wing and left-wing extremism. all extremism is bad. i would like to draw attention to another danger. well, under the guise of this alleged fight against right-wing extremism, the conservative parties are trying to impose on themselves the very vague term right-wing extremism. i have the libe report here. we discussed it in july. it tries to attribute this right-wing extremism to my party law and justice. the radio station radio maria is mentioned here, and also attention! solidarity, the solidarity that led to the fall of the berlin wall, as a manifestation of right-wing extremism. a political point: both nazism and fascism have leftist roots and connotations, so this is your problem, dear leftists, not the conservatives' problem. i was the minister of the interior, i fought with the police, with the special services, every manifestation of extremism. and i was surprised to hear that when we were celebrating the 100th anniversary of polish independence, over 300,000 polish citizens under the red and white flags were also in this chamber, referred to as fascists. come to your senses! conservatism has nothing to do with the madness of left-wing extremism. that was fascism or nazism.
madam president! the terrorist threat is a significant problem. it should be expected to be debated in the european parliament in a serious way, with concern for the safety of citizens, and not used as a tool. the europol report on religious and political terrorism in the union for 2022 shows that in the last three years there have been more attacks of an islamist nature (43 cases) and of a left-wing nature (52 cases) than of a right-wing nature (9 cases only). of course, and it's too much. leftist ideology and muslim extremism therefore pose a more serious threat to democracy, the constitutional order and security in the union. it is therefore hypocritical for parliament to be concerned only with right-wing terrorism. this is about smearing political opponents. it is the parties that are concerned about the safety of europeans, that condemn mass migration, that take the concerns of citizens seriously, that are called the far right. is that weird? it's a tradition here.
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. i've been listening to this debate and i wanted to give you some information. by october 2022, the european border guard agency frontex has registered some 280 000 illegal entries into the european union. that's 77% more than in 2021. the swedish prime minister spoke yesterday about the need to fight illegal immigration in the european union. we need to sort this out. what do you think about that?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. commissioner and minister! ladies and gentlemen! recently, the committee on employment and social affairs held a hearing with mark mcgann, a former uber executive. mr. macgann, now acting as a bona fide whistleblower, has exposed the company's lobbying practices and illegal activities and lobbying at the highest levels of government in countries such as the united kingdom, france and russia. according to the press, uber also held meetings, talks with members of the european parliament and the european commission. people were just sold a lie. we've all heard about the dishonesty of a company towards its own employees, exploiting them by falsely presenting the employment model as financially advantageous. uber, of course, denies the allegations, but the employee is losing this fight. commissioner, we are waiting for the investigation, which is open, to be completed, because everyone is entitled to a real and honest explanation of this matter. corruption cannot be excluded either.
mr president, commissioner johansson, should it be possible and tolerable in the european union to criminalise humanitarian aid, including rescue and salvage operations at sea? the answer is no, and yet it does happen, because it still depends too much on the legislation of the member states and, even worse, on the behaviour of national governments, in the absence of a binding european framework. this legislature started with a close vote - by just two votes - on a resolution, for which i was rapporteur, seeking a binding framework, a european rescue and salvage mechanism that cooperates with the efforts of the member states, which are there, but also attacks at the root the business model of the mafias that traffic in people and therefore exploit the despair of those who are willing to do anything and risk their lives in order to reach the european union. this effort must therefore be complemented by legal pathways, the humanitarian visas with which the last legislature ended, with a resolution adopted, of which i was also rapporteur. i conclude by stating the obvious: saving lives at sea cannot be a crime. it is an obligation under international humanitarian law and it must also be an obligation - and we cannot stop until we have achieved it - under european law. (the speaker agrees to reply to an intervention under the 'blue card' procedure)
blue-card response. – that is a point. it was unfortunately not adopted, by only two votes. a very tight vote was decisive in this particular case. my assumption is that most of the members which voted against should have reason to rethink, and particularly some who voted against must have a reason to be sorry about it, because there is the situation as you describe it: some governments are doing their best and investing massive public resources to save lives at sea while others are misbehaving grossly. and this gross despising of the importance of human life and their international obligations according to humanitarian international law is precisely because of the lack of a european binding framework, which is the aim of that resolution. my message is that we shouldn’t stop until we have the job done.
mr president, international maritime law is clear: we must provide assistance to people in danger on the high seas. it is regrettable that many member states of the european union are unable to adopt a stance that goes beyond pure repression. the overlap in migration policy, for which a majority of member states are responsible, is, in my view, a real scandal. it is therefore important to make this little humanity triumph, which is also the right of those who are banned from europe. what needs to be criminalized is not rescue on the high seas, but the destruction of hospitals, schools, infrastructure in ukraine. what needs to be criminalized is the placement of hundreds, if not thousands, of ukrainian children in russian families. what should be criminalised is the barbarity to which citizens have been exposed since 24 february, but not those who have the honour of helping those who are in real danger.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. ladies and gentlemen! strengthening the protection of the external borders of the european union should be a priority. given the situation where illegal migration is treated as an instrument of political pressure and constitutes one of the threats to the security of the european union (see for example the situation that occurred at the polish-belarusian border), more emphasis should be placed on preventing illegal crossing of the union's borders, rather than just on the control and registration of persons crossing those borders. it is important to avoid any solutions that provide incentives for smuggling of migrants and illegal migration. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and return, in particular by ensuring that the union's asylum system is as transparent as possible, and that the union's asylum system is as transparent as possible. favouring those who come to the european union following search and rescue operations and creating permanent solidarity mechanisms for this subcategory of illegal migrants is an express act of verbis, with the result that we encourage the unfortunate third countries to come here. and what we're really doing is we're funneling money to the illegal criminal groups that prey on these poor people. (the president declared the speaker to be present when the blue card was shown)
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. mr. vice president, i'm not going to let you down. mr. postle, i have a question about the polish-belarusian border. 212 people have gone missing at this border, and 34 people have died, mostly young people, recently even a man with a doctorate in medicine. i was wondering if you thought this was border protection. and do you think this is a safe and legal migration? what about the wall on that border?
the response to the request indicated by the blue card. congresswoman, every death is a tragedy, every death, including this one. each of these deaths should be treated with respect. but it's also important to be clear that there's a lot of fake news, a lot of lies. the public could hear such a witty story about poor yusuf, who allegedly sailed for 6 days on the bug, leaving only at night to warm up. the bug is a river, very cold this time of year. and he would swim for six days in this river, and then he would come to the shore to warm up because he was being terrorized by the polish border guard. mr. member, this is a good opportunity for you to bow in my name to the polish guards who are defending the security not only of poland but of the entire european union from the unfortunate people brought by putin and lukashenko for putin's money and for lukashenko's money.
mr president, saving lives is not a crime. fragen wir uns bitte heute hier eine sache: welche botschaft sendet die strafrechtliche verfolgung von seenotrettung wirklich aus, das verbot von zivilgesellschaftlichem engagement, die kriminalisierung von flucht? in ein anderes land zu fliehen, einen asylantrag zu stellen, eine faire, rechtsstaatliche prüfung zu haben, ist das recht eines jeden menschen. wie oft müssen wir das hier noch wiederholen? menschenrechte haben nicht nur einen theoretischen wert, sie gelten immer, sie gelten für alle. sie hätten auch gegolten für zehntausende tote im mittelmeer. menschen lassen ihr leben dort, wo pushbacks passieren, wo versagte hilfeleistung leben gefährdet, wo europäisches recht gebrochen wird. alle fragen immer nach lösungen. legale fluchtrouten sind lösungen. menschen auf der flucht nicht zu behindern ist eine lösung. niemanden in seenot zurückzulassen ist die lösung. was nicht die lösung ist: menschen verfolgen, anklagen und inhaftieren, die dort ansetzen, wo behördenversagen vorliegt oder der pflicht der rettung von menschen nicht nachgekommen wird. freispruch für sarah mardini und seán binder, freispruch für alle angeklagten seenotretterinnen und seenotretter!
mr. vice president, i'm not going to let you down. first of all, i agree with what my predecessor said, and i don't want to repeat myself. i'm the person who created the first polish humanitarian organization and for 30 years i worked in many different countries, i don't want to list them here. what i'm saying is that helping is legal, and if we had a measure of how governments give in to corruption and compared it to ngos, then i'm sure the outcome would be in the organizations' favor. because these are mostly very idealistic people, and to prosecute and criminalize them, as the polish government is doing, criminalizing organizations on the belarusian border, is to deny the fundamental values of the european union.
in writing. the situation for journalists in morocco is deteriorating. they face biased trials, prolonged, provisional detentions, long prison sentences on fabricated charges, surveillance and intimidation. the debate on this issue should contribute to a general assessment of the risks faced by journalists in the course of their work. according to unesco, 86 journalists and media workers were killed worldwide in 2022. every region has been affected, including europe. it is not only in morocco that journalists face various forms of violence, such as kidnapping, arbitrary detention, legal harassment, surveillance and digital violence. the war with ukraine has worsened the already difficult situation of independent journalists in russia. their safety is so threatened that many are fleeing the country and independent newsrooms are closing. pressure from the kremlin on media that do not submit to government propaganda is growing, and they are also being silenced to keep the world from learning about the anti-war protests. so there is a great need for strong control in this area by the international community. freedom, independence and pluralism of the media are the foundation of a free world. the question is, is the european union doing enough to guarantee these values and the safety of journalists? and when we talk about a free press, are we really talking about a free press that tells the truth?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! the european works council directive needs to be revised because the importance of eu-wide companies and groups of companies has increased over the last few years and some provisions should and even need to be adapted to new realities. the current information and consultation system is not adapted to the transnational structure. nor do all member states apply adequately proportionate penalties for non-compliance with existing rules. in some countries, these fines are as low as a few tens of euros. they are compromisingly low and pose no barrier. it's profitable to break the rules, because the penalties are irrelevant. the ecr supports any changes aimed at building an effective dialogue between employers and workers' representatives. however, any amendment to the directive requires a balance to be maintained between the protection of workers' rights and interests and the efficient management of the undertaking and the maintenance of the competitiveness of undertakings operating on the european union market. but some of these solutions are too radical and raise our doubts. the penalties provided for include a cut-off from public funds at both national and eu level, and a fine of up to eur 20 million or 4% of the company's annual turnover. so we're proposing wall-to-wall solutions, from extremely low to extremely high. it's a little out of control. it is proposed to apply a temporary suspension of management decisions where these decisions are challenged on the basis of a belief that the information and consultation procedures have been breached. in addition, the rapporteur has put forward a number of proposals that require further analysis, such as requiring the state to clearly define when confidentiality is justified, to restrict access to information and calling for the european works councils to be given legal personality.
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. i'm listening to this discussion, very interesting, important, really important. but i'm interested in one thing. well, most of you agree that there should be a dialogue. i'm with him, too. you agree that there should be a good law when it comes to informing the social partners in the workplace that's also ok. but i think the issue of sanctions is a very controversial one. i'd like to know your opinion, because you represent the free-market ppe party. how do you see this project of imposing sanctions on business owners or heads of businesses in a dispute ?
mr. chairman, please! poland welcomes the efforts of the commission and the european external action service to develop a comprehensive european union connectivity strategy, which have resulted in the global gateway. the global gateway is not just a strategy for the european union to provide development aid. it is a comprehensive offer to deliver strategic infrastructure investments in five key areas: digitalisation, transport, energy and climate, health and education. this is a new approach, requiring a wide range of competences beyond development aid. the implementation of this strategy requires a different area of expertise, mainly related to the planning, preparation, financing and implementation of infrastructure investments and permanent, close cooperation with the private sector. it is important to emphasise the importance of working with small and medium-sized enterprises. at the same time, the global gateway can be key to promoting the union's strategic interests globally. it is therefore a key instrument for the european union's foreign policy and position building and for influencing the direction of socioeconomic development in the world. with regard to the key elements of the global gateway strategy, poland draws attention in particular to the need to give priority to the european union's closest neighbourhood, namely the eastern partnership, the western balkans, central asia and the southern neighbourhood, as areas of particular importance from the point of view of the union's strategic interests, in the implementation of the global gateway. the economic and investment plans for these regions should be flagship initiatives of the global gateway. the three seas initiative together with the investment fund can play an important role in achieving the objectives in this area, in particular the eastern partnership and the western balkans.
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. thank you very much for allowing me to ask a question. i understand that you are from sweden and that you represent that country here in the european parliament. now we have the swedish presidency of the european union. yesterday, during the debate on the common market, there was a great outcry in the european parliament because america is doing bad things. today we hear that china is a great adversary and is devastating the world economy. what do you think the swedish presidency can do? isn't it better, in the matter we're talking about today, to make a deal with america and a little bit with china to improve those relations and together fix the world? what do you think the swedish presidency will do?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there will be 2.5 billion africans in 2050 and 52% of their young people have ambitions to come to europe. already, more than 7 million have applied for asylum since 2014, the equivalent of the auvergne-rhône-alpes region in france or the whole of bulgaria. every sign of weakness leads them to take their chances, to leave their country and their roots to fall into the clutches of smuggling gangs, and, for some, to die at sea. they know that if they come to us, you will welcome them in the name of your good will, but in defiance of the will of our people. you are the architects of the destruction of our civilization. by welcoming africa and the middle east, we are not helping them, we are only becoming africa and the middle east ourselves. the only sustainable and humane solution is to dissuade them from leaving, to prevent them from entering and to systematically expel them if they do arrive. we must of course finance the protections put up by, for example, greece, hungary and bulgaria at our external borders. we must punish those countries of origin which do not cooperate and promote the development of those which control their flow, without infantilizing them or imposing our european schemes on them. and instead of distributing the migrants, we must send them back home. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question by mr glinne)
blue-card speech. – as it was told, last year there were 330 000 migrants who enter to europe. do you know what percentage is 330 000 of migrants to the number of inhabitants of european union?
mr president, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, after so many speeches by my colleagues, it is natural for me to ask how much longer this parliament will have to speak before a council can give a concrete answer. this parliament has repeatedly said, with varying degrees of sensitivity: we need a political and european solution. as long as the member states continue to put their national logic ahead of the community's, it will unfortunately not be possible to find a concrete and pragmatic answer. if we do not act now, we will continue to see waves of migration that will become, as they have been in the past, real emergencies. i therefore appeal to you that the swedish presidency may have the strength to find an agreement based on solidarity and the idea that the southern and eastern borders are european borders. we need to work with third countries to make returns more efficient, while promoting social and employment reintegration; we must strengthen the external borders which will undoubtedly be financed and implemented to deal with asylum applications. finally, we support a code of conduct for ngos in search and rescue operations, so that they are held accountable, together with their respective states, so that international and national law is respected. good luck to this parliament and good work on a difficult undertaking, that it is really put into practice.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, since the start of putin's war of aggression against ukraine, 11 million people displaced by the horror have entered the territory of the european union and at least 4 million have decided to remain there indefinitely. and none of that has called into question the european social model or our capacity for inclusion. so, madam president-in-office of the council, why not change the predominantly negative view of migration and asylum seekers, which is the only effective way not only to dismantle the electoral exploitation of panic and rejection of migrants and asylum seekers, but also to dismantle the business model of traffickers who exploit the desperation of human beings? the migration and asylum pact and its roadmap are an opportunity to finally strike the balance between binding solidarity and shared responsibility. but the task will not be complete until we open legal avenues and establish humanitarian visas and a european rescue and salvage mechanism at sea that will enable all member states to comply - and oblige them to do so - with their obligations under international humanitarian law.
mr president, minister, i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! yes, europe has a problem with illegal migration today. in fact, the whole policy has gone bankrupt. i am glad that president von der leyen spoke today about strengthening the borders, but above all she spoke about the need to fight smugglers, all those who cause the flow of illegal migrants, but also give hope and hope to those people in their country of origin and charge huge sums of money for it. but we also know today that other member countries, member countries' services, and united states services are saying that a significant part of the problem is driven by external forces. i'm talking about russia and belarus. these regimes are behind the attempted assault on the eastern borders of europe, and it's extremely important that we talk about it. this is the destabilization they're dreaming of. that is why frontex must be strengthened, frontex and the border guards must be given more resources, border protection must be strengthened and the european union's policy in this area must be reviewed. and most importantly, humanitarian aid on the ground. this will significantly reduce the negative effects on europe.
mr. chairman, please! the european union says it's building bridges instead of walls. yes, now walls and barriers of all kinds are being erected around europe. i feel like we're building a rich fortress of europe. there are currently 1,800 kilometres of walls in europe, or 12 berlin walls. 320,000 refugees or migrants, even illegal ones, that's 0.06 percent of the entire population of the european union. does that 0.06% bother us that much? after all, these people can be taken in, examined to see if they should stay in europe, and then sent back, rather than being held in detention centers, where they sometimes spend up to three years in very difficult conditions. this is what happens in my country, for example. we all want to enjoy the freedom of movement. why do we say that immigration is illegal? everyone has the right to move and no one is illegal.
in writing. one of the main topics of the forthcoming special european council will be the need to develop sustainable solutions in the field of asylum and migration. this is particularly important in the face of the brutal, illegal and unjustified invasion of sovereign and independent ukraine that has been going on for almost a year. i hope that today's words of ursula von der leyen will be followed by action: strengthening the borders, the need to fight ruthlessly against smugglers who cause the flow of illegal migrants and give illusion and hope to people in their country of origin, while taking huge sums of money. poland has passed the test, first responding responsibly to the belarusian-russian provocations on the polish and at the same time the eu's external border before russia's aggression against ukraine. later, in an unprecedented way, it welcomed millions of refugees from war. the poles took them in their homes, not in refugee camps. europe has a longstanding problem with illegal immigration, and its current migration and asylum policies are increasingly flawed. border services like frontex are the subject of many attacks and criticisms. in the current situation in europe, the budget for the agency, the border guard, needs to be increased, border protection needs to be strengthened and the european union's border policy needs to be reviewed.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. political advertising on the internet is crucial today and there is no doubt that the document we are discussing today should be viewed positively in terms of transparency and the requirement to publish information on funding. and in fact, this whole regulation should be specifically about this area. although the records we have refer to a 10-year retention period, it is worth looking at the terreg regulation, where the retention period for terrorist content is set at a minimum of 2 years or for the duration of the investigation. it's worth keeping this content for 10 years too but that's beside the point. the backbone of the whole regulation is article 12, which is the introduction of a targeting ban. the text proposed by the libe committee goes further, much further than the european commission's proposal. but i have not had a very thorough and accurate analysis of this issue.
mr. chairman, please! it is up to us to make our common european home. whether it's strong and principled or weak and deprived of values. yes, the union is a home, and our role is to strengthen that home. we were chosen for this purpose: to protect it from its enemies, to protect the weakest, and for its people to live in peace and prosperity. but there are those in this house who are scaling the family and taking the family silver from the house. there are people like that here. some torpedo sanctions against putin and refuse to give weapons to ukraine, others, day after day, spit on the union, replicating kremlin propaganda. this is the moment in european history when we need a stronger and more integrated union. first, an end to the pathology of the council veto, which allows orbán to block sanctions. secondly, the energy independence of the whole european union. thirdly, the dark dream of putin: a common european army and a common foreign policy. a strong european union is a secure future for millions of europeans.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! ukraine's future is in the european union. ukraine is determined to end the war as soon as possible, to win the war and to become a member of the european union. the european union needs ukraine, just as ukraine needs the european union. we must be more determined, we must be more efficient, we must be clear and we must be more united. if we accept sanctions, then those sanctions must be respected, they must be consistently implemented. but today, ukraine needs weapons first. he's not gonna win this war without a gun, and we know that. but are all the member countries and we here, too, determined enough to support ukraine militarily? we need political help, we need humanitarian help. we must thank the european societies who have shown how determined they are to support those who are fleeing ukraine and finding refuge in our countries. i want to thank the poles, the poles, poland. i want to say that i am proud of poland, which shows every day that it understands that the future of the european union, the security of the european union, the security of all of us depends on whether ukraine wins. and we do everything we can to help, to support. but i want to emphasize again: today, above all, ukraine needs weapons. we all have to remember that.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! we all want peace in europe. but for peace to reign, this war must be won by ukraine, and that is our common conscience. that's why this eu-ukraine summit is so important. so important that it ends with very specific actions. because there's no time to think about what equipment should get to the front as fast as possible, as modern as possible, as serious as possible and as heavy as possible. and not just leopards, but also long-range missiles, fighter planes. ukraine must win this war because it is fighting for the future of europe, and it is fighting for us. and sanctions - the word has been used here many times - must be even tougher, even more consistent and also symbolic. let's remember: next year's olympics will be held without russian and belarusian athletes. these athletes cannot represent countries that are aggressors and aggressors in europe. after all, these are also symbolic peace games. i repeat, sanctions and aid to ukraine.
madam president! the war is on. it'll be sharper before it's over. ukraine cannot lose because it will destroy the european order based on the rule of law. we will continue to provide all possible assistance to the ukrainian people. we're gonna help rebuild this country after the war. we want ukraine to join us within the union and we are ready to open the way for the swift opening of accession negotiations. this will be important to maintain optimism and faith in a good future for ukraine. but everyone must understand that enlargement of the european union is not a purely political process and that we cannot make unrealistic promises. it's a disappointment. the heroism of the ukrainian soldiers is admirable. the suffering of millions of citizens is a cause for compassion, but also for solidarity. humanitarian aid to refugees is also a moral test for europe. we're going to make it. ukraine will win. the european dream of millions of ukrainians will be fulfilled.
madam president, i would like to support all those colleagues who mentioned that to end this war, ukraine has to win the war. to win the war, firstly, we have to provide all kinds of assistance to ukraine. this is what i expect firstly from the summit – political, economic and military assistance; all kinds of weapons supposed to be delivered to win the war. secondly, what i expect from the summit is a clear and fast perspective of membership of the european union based on the copenhagen criteria and the acquis communautaire and nothing else. we cannot treat ukraine as a guinea pig, as a laboratory of liberal visions.
madam president, for ukraine, a decisive moment approaches, with a new russian offensive coming. ukraine needs boost, not cold shower and nice words. ukraine is not getting enough and quickly enough. there is no reason for eu being so self—satisfied and self—congratulatory, mr commissioner, for what it does for ukraine because it does things below the needs of ukraine, below eu capacity. on weapons, eu is underperforming compared to us. cowardly, hesitant and overcautious attitudes prevail. ukraine needs fighter jets and long—range artillery now. on money, eu is performing far below its weight, gives loans instead of grant money that leads ukraine into a sovereign debt crisis. on accession perspective, many urge to dash ukraine’s hopes for swift eu accession and call them unrealistic. they are mainly russia understanders and ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, we must continue to help ukraine at this crucial moment, including by increasing arms shipments. on the other hand, we should get virtually the entire international community to join in condemning russian aggression. there are still many countries which, inexplicably, abstain or adopt very unreasonable positions of neutrality. the condemnation should not be merely declarative, but should be accompanied by the adoption of some of the sanctions that the western countries and the like-minded have put in place. at the very least we should ensure that these third countries do not help russia to evade sanctions. by the way, the high representative was in south africa last week. from your blog, i learned what you said to them yesterday. south africa's attitude to russian aggression is being unacceptable. i hope that mr borrell has been persuasive and that the south african authorities will at least initiate a change in their position. on the other hand, we must all be very vigilant to ensure that the sanctions imposed in our countries are complied with. the united kingdom, for example, has managed to double the number of officials working in the relevant treasury agency. i hope that the european union and the member states will also strengthen these administrations.
madam president, ukraine is fighting not only for its independence, but for ours. the brutal attack of the russian federation on ukraine was only the beginning of a bloody plan to regain influence in the region. the support of the european union, the united states and nato allies has blocked the offensive, but the risk remains very high. the threat of a new russian offensive still exists. increasing the military presence on the eastern flank as well as in the black sea countries, including romania, military support for ukraine, financial support for the republic of moldova, maintaining sanctions against russia are essential for victory and possible future peace negotiations. at the same time, we need to increase european military production capacity, especially in frontline states. we need to support the population to increase the resilience of european societies, but also to rebuild ukraine on new foundations, fighting corruption and respecting the rights of all minorities. we have the strength to win this war, but to do so, european leaders must bear in mind that we can only do so by maintaining the democratic values, unity and determination that we have shown so far.
madam president, council, commissioner, almost a year ago, ukraine was brutally attacked by the russian regime. every day, every week, war crimes continue to be committed in this war of aggression. in this summit between the european union and ukraine it is essential to maintain financial support, humanitarian support, logistical support and all the support that is needed to strengthen ukraine's military capabilities. finally, the european union and nato have provided tanks to ukraine. unfortunately, we see that the portuguese government continues to hesitate with discussions between the minister of defence and the minister of foreign affairs and continues to be against the european integration of ukraine. we must all make an effort to support president zelensky and ukraine militarily, humanitarianally, financially.
madam president, colleagues, this will soon be a year when ukraine and its people will fight for the freedom, sovereignty and territorial integrity of their country. russia's unjustified military aggression has also irrevocably changed the geopolitical situation in europe as a whole. and the whole world saw the true face of the russian and kremlin regime. therefore, now is the time to focus and fundamentally take decisive political, economic and financial decisions to help ukraine fight and defeat russian aggression. let us not forget that ukraine's victory over russia is the guarantee of our security, freedom and democracy. the european union is also committed to the establishment of a permanent, independent and independent judiciary, and to the establishment of a permanent tribunal for russian war crimes, the establishment of a war victims' compensation fund and a fund for the rehabilitation of ukraine, and of course the provision of continuous, in particular military and all-round assistance to ukraine, and a firm commitment to supporting ukraine's accession to the european union.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, it has been nearly a year that putin’s russia has waged war militarily against ukraine, but hybrid warfare against all of us – the free world, especially europe – was already ongoing for many years – also in february last year – and has been ongoing now for many years. but europe defends its citizens, its freedom and wants to achieve peace with unprecedented means and measures. this was unexpected by putin’s russia and this is why we have to underline that europe is using the european peace facility exactly for what it was meant to be used for. and europe is also fighting back in a bloodless way against the bloody war attack in terms of sanctions. yes, within europe the leadership of serbia is of concern, the leadership of hungary is of concern, but the alignment and unity are unprecedented and will remain. so it’s good to have the eu-ukraine summit this week. it’s good to talk about even more help in terms of military, in terms of sanctions, in terms of reconstruction in the future. and i have no doubt that freedom and peace will be restored.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the war in ukraine has also put food supplies in europe and the world at large to a severe test. it is good that the commission has tried to open up new export routes from ukraine, especially while the black sea ports were closed. but the removal of all export duties and the new export routes directly to the european union have also made it difficult for farmers in the european union - particularly in the east of our union, in the countries bordering ukraine. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural products are not used for the production of foodstuffs. this, of course, puts pressure on our prices. we want to open up all possibilities for ukrainian farmers to sell their products to the european union. but on the other hand, we must not look the other way when our farmers are in trouble. we must deal with this. we must help the farmers in the european union who are suffering. but then we must, especially in the coming months and years, ensure that in a process of joining the european union, the standards of the european union are also respected in ukraine.
madam president, dear colleagues, ukraine has fought bravely against russia for almost nine years. the full—scale attack that russia launched in february last year is a clear sign that putin’s regime goal is to destroy western way of life. our task is to help ukraine as much as they need today. ukraine needs more weapons and ukraine needs a plan for recovery. the eu—ukraine summit must give ukraine a message of hope. ukraine belongs to european family. last but not least, russian and belarusian athletes should not compete on the paris olympic games next year. i am collecting your support. give your signatures to the letter i will send to the president of the european council.
i'm not going to tell you. the future of europe is being decided in ukraine. it's about whether we protect life, protect the rights of the weak and democratically decide our future, or the other side wins - disrespect for life, lawlessness and the arbitrariness of a dictator. the ukrainians are defending our space, they are defending freedom and democracy across europe, and it is our moral duty to help them and to increase not only economic, humanitarian, but also defensive military aid. it is important for the future of europe, and there has been a lot of talk about defending europe, about a european army. today, we see that we already have that army. it's the ukrainian army. we talk about the european peace project, but no one has done more for peace in europe than the ukrainians. it is therefore important that we help them on their european journey and that we also make this journey concrete at the new summit which starts tomorrow, by talking about the extension of economic cooperation, the extension of the roaming call zone or cooperation in the energy sector. such a shift in these areas will benefit not only the citizens of ukraine but also all citizens of the european union.
madam president, ukraine has already lost almost 20% of its territory to the russian aggressor. that means we should increase the eu’s support to kyiv in order to liberate the occupied territories. we should increase the financial and military assistance, at least to the level of the united states of america. after all, we are dealing with a european war. we all know that if the russians are not stopped and defeated in ukraine, they will continue towards moldova, the baltic states, maybe poland. during the past 20 years, we have been encouraging ukraine’s european ambitions without offering adequate support. our goal should be the integration of ukraine in the european union based on an unprecedented programme of economic support.
madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, i would first of all like to thank my fellow citizens who have helped the ukrainian refugees, millions of ukrainians, since the beginning of this bloody conflict. yes, everything must be done to stop the massacre of the civilian population, because innocent citizens are dying there and i believe, commissioner, that your message today is a timid message of peace, diplomatic support. that's what we're talking about. we have to do, we have to give support to the citizens, because there the population has no more food, sometimes no more water, and we have to go to diplomatic support. but ukraine must understand, as a state that has signed an accession agreement, that it must respect the rights of minorities and that is why i ask you, commissioner, to check compliance with the statute, the agreement that ukraine has signed, because, yes, the romanian minorities cannot speak in romanian, they cannot learn in romanian and now oppressions have started against romanian orthodox priests.
madam president, commissioner hahn, on the one-year anniversary of putin's illegal, illegitimate and unjustifiable war of aggression against ukraine, this european parliament has done everything in its power to show its commitment to sanctions against russia and its solidarity with the ukrainian people suffering from this war. we have supported the confiscation of oligarchs' assets. we have supported, by means of the urgency procedure, the strengthening of eurojust for cooperation with the prosecutor's office of the international criminal court in order to prevent impunity for war crimes. and we have also supported the european union's initiative to set up a special court for the crime of aggression. but of the 11 million displaced people fleeing terror, at least 4 million have decided to stay in the european union indefinitely. and that also requires the reinforcement of european budget lines to support the solidarity that exists in the member states, to address vulnerable situations and, in particular, the schooling of minors. and believe me, it will certainly have the support of the socialist group.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, thank you. i think the debate has shown, again, in a big way, that there is unlimited support for ukraine and its people to win this war - i say it quite openly - i'm afraid there's no other way. i would also very much like to negotiate peace, each of us. i'm just wondering who the russian valley rand is. i haven't seen that one. i think we should also remember one thing, which has largely been lost in the debate: the issue is the restoration of ukraine's territorial integrity. sometimes i get the impression that there's a perpetrator-victim inversion in this debate. i mean, there's no doubt who the aggressor is. and that needs to be made clear, also in the future. we must do everything we can to help ukraine restore its territorial sovereignty. europe has done a great deal in this respect. if you add up the achievements of the member states, the commission, etc., military aid, humanitarian aid, that is more than the united states has done to date - just to put it in perspective. and i regret - he is no longer in the chamber - that mr verhofstadt, of all people, has had a mild populist attack here, by calling on the commission to supply arms, so to speak, knowing full well that this is not possible under our treaty, the eu treaty. but we are doing everything we can to create these opportunities, with our member states and the appropriate aid. secondly, there is, of course, a broad consensus not only in this house that russia will have to contribute in the future to the reparations, to the reconstruction of the infrastructure and many other areas of ukrainian society, and that the funds currently frozen by the russian central bank in western european and american accounts, so to speak, will also be used in the future for reparations payments, as will the funds of oligarchs. but this is a legal exercise, and anyone who has ever been involved in this matter, even in the slightest degree, knows that it is not easy. but i think the moral and political demands are clear and must be pursued accordingly. there was also the question of why we only give out loans. at the end of the day, this was a chance to help quickly. but it is also important for me to emphasize that the european member states have also agreed to finance, pay the interest on these loans for the next ten years, and the capital is not scheduled to be used until the 2030s. we shall then see how to deal with this subject. if, as we are debating today, 15 colleagues are in ukraine, at this meeting between the commission and the ukrainian government, then these are above all those colleagues who, in their sphere of competence, have topics currently open - topics open on how to help ukraine at the moment, but also on how to support ukraine's accession prospects very intensively. we do both in parallel, but, again, as has been said many times, there can be no discount for membership. but you can be very involved. we are doing that and we will continue to do so. i would like to thank you once again for the strong support which has been expressed in the debate today. i can conclude with the traditional but still important and correct slava ukrajini.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you for all the interventions. this exchange shows once again the european parliament’s strong support for ukraine. the eu-ukraine summit will bring a message of strong, unwavering support – a way for the eu to say ‘we stand by your side and the future for ukraine and its citizens lies within the eu’. i also listened carefully to all your interventions about accountability and further sanctions. and as i said in my introductory remarks, those responsible must be held accountable. and on sanctions, we stand ready to reinforce more restrictive measures. we will further step up the ongoing diplomatic efforts to support ukraine in all relevant international fora, calling for steadfast solidarity with ukraine and against russia’s war of aggression. we are ready to support ukraine’s initiative for a just peace, and we will continue to stand by ukraine once peace has returned – to reconstruct and to help make the future brighter for the ukrainian people. we firmly stand with ukraine for as long as it takes.
i have received five motions for resolutions at the end of the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. – the upcoming eu-ukraine summit will be the first eu summit to take place in an active warzone. symbolical for itself but we need to use it. first, we need to commit ourselves to a political and financial support of ukraine until its whole territory is free and unified. this is our own interest, too. second, it’s not the time to talk but to deliver – especially military equipment. a promised equipment is nothing you can use unless it’s on ukraine’s territory. last, it is time for further sanctions towards russia and cutting it off from the international community.
a uachtaráin, the russian leadership has shown its cruelty towards the ukrainian people, engaging in war crimes as part of its standard operations on a daily basis. but not only this: they have also shown a complete indifference to their own soldiers, sending wave after wave as cannon fodder to their deaths. i voted in favour of this resolution for many reasons. i support ukraine’s independence and sovereignty, and the need to increase humanitarian aid to ukraine, and i join calls for the upcoming eu—ukraine summit to prioritise a recovery package for ukraine. however, i would like to underline my support for ireland’s longstanding policy of military neutrality. as a nation we are not politically neutral when it comes to russia’s illegal and barbaric war against ukraine. we do not oppose and would not seek to block other eu member states from providing military assistance, which is badly needed, to help ukraine defend itself. slava ukraini!
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution with conviction because i believe that the ukrainian people need support and that all of us here should clearly state that support. it's an absolute shame, an absolute disgrace to say that the attacked should surrender and not defend themselves. it's clear who the aggressor is to all those who think and are not paid by kremlin propaganda. the aggressor in this case is russia and the russian leadership. if you want peace, you have to convince the aggressor to stop this attack and to withdraw and to seek some kind of talks from here on out, but to say that you should not help the attacked, the weaker, the one whose home is attacked, the one who is bombed, the one who is under bombs 24/7, because the war should be ended in this way, is shameful, disgraceful and is a manifestation of kremlin propaganda. this propaganda, unfortunately, continues to make its way even into this room and justify the unjustified, namely the killing of innocent people. so i voted for the resolution, and it's clear to me who is being attacked and who needs to be protected.
mr president, i naturally supported this motion for a resolution. what russia is doing is denying how it helped shape the international rules of order after world war ii. one state cannot invade another state. and these are not just questions of international law. let's look at these pictures from bucha, from irpin, from many other ukrainian cities. we are witnessing a genuine genocide, which is why i supported the amendment tabled by my colleagues from the ecr to call it that as well. these pictures show dead, dead children, kidnapped, totally decimated regions where a russian soldier's boot has entered. i am in favour of giving ukraine maximum security guarantees for the future and also supplying arms and also financial support to this state. they're defending themselves, they've been attacked.
that concludes this item.
the minutes of today's sitting and yesterday's sitting will be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next sitting. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolutions adopted at today's sitting to the persons and bodies named in them.
the next meeting will take place in strasbourg from 13 to 16 february 2023.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 2 february 2023.
we are here today on this historic occasion to welcome the president of ukraine, volodymyr zelenskyy, to the european parliament. this is an extraordinary moment, in extraordinary times. it has been almost one year since the brutal, illegal invasion of sovereign ukraine by russia. in all that time, mr president, your leadership has inspired your people and inspired every corner of the globe. when the world thinks of ukraine they think of heroes fighting the odds, of david beating goliath. they think of the icons of snake island, the warriors of mariupol, the liberators of so many occupied towns and villages. their names will be spoken of for generations. notwithstanding the bombs that fall every day, your grain continues to feed the world. when a devastating earthquake hit turkey and syria, you stood up and sent rescuers, equipment and expertise. that is real solidarity. (applause)i am proud to say that this house of european democracy, its members, our european union, have always stood with you. we understand that you are fighting not only for your values, but for ours. for those ideals that bind us as sisters and brothers. they make us all europeans. because ukraine is europe and your nation’s future is in the european union. (applause)we know the sacrifice that your people have endured for europe and we must honour it not only with words but with action: with the political will to ensure easier trade and with the fastest possible accession process; with funds for your people; with help in reconstruction; with training for your troops; with the military equipment and defence systems you need to win. now, states must consider, quickly, as a next step, providing long range systems and the jets that you need to protect the liberty too many have taken for granted. our response must be proportional to the threat – and the threat is existential. i grew up hearing my grandparents’ stories of my country’s last three fighter planes. when all seemed lost, when they had no ammunition, no food and no hope, when all that remained were their three barely functioning planes that they called faith, hope and charity – named after what they were fighting for, after what was at stake. the planes meant one more day of liberty, just long enough for help to arrive. they meant peace. you do not need to convince anyone here of how essential it is to support ukraine, to back all those giving their lives, to support the values we preach with concrete measures, to ensure victory, real peace – based on your 10-point plan, accountability for those who have committed war crimes and for the protection of freedom for all ukrainians. i want to repeat the promise i made to you when we met in kyiv last april: we have your back. we were with you then, we are with you now, we will be with you for as long as it takes. freedom will prevail. peace will reign. you will win. slava ukraini! (loud and sustained applause)
president of ukraine. – (the following is a transcription of the interpretation of the original speech from ukrainian into english) glory to ukraine! dear madam president – dear roberta – i thank you for these powerful words, and i thank you for your personal attention, which is very important to ukraine. i thank you for your principled and energetic approach – two qualities that we see have remained unchanged during this struggle for europe. the combination of those two qualities is a precondition for progress. europe is lucky that here, in the chamber of europe’s largest parliament – the european parliament, a principled and energetic approach commands an absolute majority. thank you, dear representatives of europe and leaders of europe. all of us europeans, each of the hundreds of millions of people in our continent, combine these two attributes, as do the representatives and leaders of europe. this combination reflects what our europe, a modern and peaceful europe, gives to the world – the european way of life, european living standards, and european rules for life. it is in europe where each and every person matters; where the rule of law exists; where states strive to be social and societies strive to be open; where diversity is a value and the values of different people are united by fairness and equality; where borders are not violated, but where you don’t notice when you are crossing borders; where people trust and have faith in tomorrow and are ready to take to the streets to fight for their future; and where there’s only one barrier between protesters and the president, and that is honest elections. this is our europe. these are rules. this is our way of life. for ukraine, it is the way home. i am here in order to defend the way home for our people, for all ukrainians of all ages and of various political convictions, various social statuses, various religious convictions and different histories. all of us enjoy this common european history – the ukrainian european way of life that they tried to annihilate through total war. why? because after the european ukrainian way of life, they want to destroy the european way of life in all 27 countries of the european union. we will not allow that. the total war that is now being waged by russia is not only for territory in this or that part of europe. the danger is that there is a dictator with massive supplies and reserves of soviet weapons and weapons from dictatorial regimes, iran in particular. in order to be able to fight like this, the kremlin, cynically and deliberately, year after year and step after step, has been trying to eliminate and destroy what we see as our values in europe. the value of human life has been destroyed in russia. for the authorities there, nobody is of value apart from those who are in the kremlin and have their own wallets at heart. the 140 million russian citizens are, for the leaders of russia, just bodies capable of carrying weapons for russia on the battlefield and in order to keep everybody obedient. the supremacy of violence and obedience are the rules instead of law. the russian regime not only hates any social justice and diversity, but they are also investing in xenophobia and trying to make it the norm on our continent. they are trying to make the inhumane realities of the 1930s and 1940s a reality today. but the answer to that for us is ‘no! no! europe!’ we are defending ourselves against the most anti—european force in the modern world. we are defending ourselves. we ukrainians are on the battlefield together with you! i thank you now for defending it together with us. we must defend ourselves. it’s important not only for the states of europe, but also for communities and societies in europe, no matter who we are or what we are. we always fight against disrespect and neglect. wherever we live, we always put our faith in integrity, for whatever we dream of for our children and grandchildren. the precondition for these dreams is peace and security. will that be possible if we do not overcome the anti-european force that is trying to steal our europe from all of us? no! only our victory will guarantee all that. each of our european values makes our victory essential. dear leaders of europe! dear madam president, ladies and gentlemen! dear members of european parliament! dear officials of the european parliament and of other european institutions here! dear journalists, security service workers, military and army personnel, police officers and rescue workers! dear workers of municipalities, diplomats, teachers, professors and scientists! dear doctors, drivers, seaport workers, farmers and industrialists! dear workers in industrial enterprises! dear owners of small and large businesses! dear workers at banks! dear energy workers and electricity grid workers! dear trade union workers! dear students and representatives of ngos! dear producers and actors, lawyers, defence lawyers and human rights defenders! the fate of europe has never depended on politicians, and there should be no such illusion now. each and every one of us matters. each and every one of you is strong. each and every one of you is capable of impacting and influencing our common outcome – our common victory! (applause) this applause is not directed to me. i’d like to thank all of you in europe – in hundreds of towns and villages – who have supported ukraine in this historic battle. thank you! (applause)i would like to thank all of you who have been helping our people, our ordinary citizens and our resettled people here, and who called on their leaders to increase and step up their support to protect our ordinary people. i thank those who were on the squares, who were raising questions, who were spreading the truth about the russian aggression, who were not tempted by russia to consume russian disinformation, and who are standing by us in our fight for life and for europe. i thank you. i thank all of you who help ukraine with vitally important supplies, weapons, ammunition, energy equipment and fuel, with the thousands of things without which we would not be able to endure this total war. i thank you, ladies and gentlemen, members of the european parliament, and you personally, roberta. with your decisions, you defend the european way of life steadfastly; you defend the ukrainian european way of life. you approve courageous decisions and you strengthen the european ambition to be a home for justice and freedom. i recall the first day of the large—scale invasion, when the russian ambition to break us and europe as a whole was still adamant. it was when the russian aggression was beginning to break its teeth fighting our defences on the sixth day of the large—scale invasion. the european parliament approved a resolution not simply to support our state, but also to approve our country’s status as a candidate for membership of the european union. that was the vision that motivated us to be strong and to stay the course. (applause) today, during the meeting of the european council, i will be able to thank personally the heads of state and government for the decisions that, over the course of the last year, have allowed our continent to do what the previous wave of leaders considered impossible. europe, at last, is relieving itself of the ruinous dependence on the russian fossil fuels. europe is cleansing itself of the corrupting influence of russian oligarchic business. europe is defending itself from infiltration by agents of russia’s secret services, who look at europe as a hunting ground for opponents of the russian regime. for the first time in its history, the european union is providing military assistance on such a large scale, and i see a positive assessment of the reforms in a european country that is fighting and defending itself while modernising and reforming its institutions. we are getting closer to the european union. ukraine is going to be a member of the european union – a victorious ukraine! ukraine is going to be a member of the european union – a victorious european union! dear friends, perhaps some of you have not felt before the power of the european way of life. now, together, ukraine and the countries of the european union have made our strength obvious. how is this possible? because we combined a principled and energetic approach. we are all equal in representing europe and integrity. we know that everybody is a leader of europe in his or her own life and specific place. we do not retreat in the face of the enemy – we defend ourselves! we are not wasting time – we are changing ourselves and we are changing things. europe will always remain europe, as long as we are together and as long as we take care of our europe and of the european way of life. i thank all of you. i invite you all to ukraine. glory to all ukrainians who are fighting, and glory to ukraine! (the house rose and accorded president zelenskyy a standing ovation)(the house remained standing for the national anthem of ukraine and the european anthem)
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 9 february 2023.
dear colleagues, last week a devastating series of earthquakes hit türkiye and syria, causing almost unimaginable destruction. tens of thousands of people have been killed, thousands more are injured or still trapped under the rubble. i want to underline that europe stands with the people of türkiye and syria. our civil protection mechanism has been activated and help has – and continues to be –sent, and this will be debated as the first item on our agenda this afternoon. right now, our thoughts are with the families of those killed, those trapped, those injured and with all rescuers fighting the clock – night and day – to save lives. we will discuss that this afternoon – and i ask you to be present – but before that i invite you to join me for a minute of silence in honour of the many victims of this tragic earthquake. (the house rose and observed a minute’s silence) dear colleagues, 9 february was an important day for european unity. before attending the special european council meeting, the european parliament had the honour of hosting president zelenskyy – a true example of the bravery, courage and resilience of the ukrainian people. president zelenskyy spoke from our chamber, but his words really reverberated throughout europe. it was a strong message and a reminder that the battle in ukraine is not just one for territory, but also one in defence of our shared values. i want to thank you all for attending this extraordinary plenary session last week. ahead of the one—year anniversary of russia’s illegal invasion of ukraine, we have shown that the european parliament stands, and continues to stand, in full solidarity with ukraine and its people, and we will continue to do just that.
the minutes and the texts adopted of the previous sittings are available. are there any comments? i see there are no comments. the minutes are approved.
i have received a request from the competent authorities in poland for the parliamentary immunities of mr patryk jaki, ms beata kempa, ms beata mazurek and mr tomasz poręba to be waived. this request is referred to the committee on legal affairs.
the s&d group has notified me of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees and delegations. these decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and take effect on the date of this announcement.
in relation to the decision by the libe committee to enter into interinstitutional negotiations, pursuant to rule 71(1), announced at the opening of the session on wednesday 1 february, i have received no request for a vote in parliament by members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold. the committee may therefore start the negotiations.
several committees have decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations, pursuant to rule 71(1) of the rules of procedure. the reports, which constitute the mandates for the negotiations, are available on the plenary webpage and their titles will be published in the minutes of the sitting. pursuant to rule 71(2) members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold may request in writing by tomorrow, tuesday 14 february, at midnight, that the decisions be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in parliament is made within the deadline, the committees may start the negotiations.
pursuant to rule 241(4) of the rules of procedure, i would like to inform you that there was no request to put to the vote the corrigendum from the envi committee announced in plenary on wednesday 1 february. the corrigendum is therefore deemed to have been approved. i understand that our colleague, marketa gregorová, has a point of order.
thank you, ms gregorová, i will.
we now come to the order of business. the final draft agenda, as adopted by the conference of presidents on 8 february pursuant to the rule 157, has been distributed. i would like to inform you that i have received a request for urgent procedure from the envi committee, pursuant to rule 163, on transitional provisions for certain medical devices and in vitro diagnostic medical devices. the vote on this request will be taken tomorrow and, if adopted, the vote will be held on thursday. we now move to changes requested by political groups. for monday, the left group has requested that a commission statement on following up on measures taken by parliament to strengthen the integrity of the european institutions be added on monday, as the fifth point in the afternoon. the debate would be wound up with a resolution to be voted on thursday, and as a consequence the session would be extended to 11 p.m. i give the floor to ms aubry to move the request on behalf of the left group.
i will now give the floor to any colleague who wishes to speak against this proposal. i don’t see that to be the case. i will therefore put the request to the vote by roll call. (parliament agreed to the request)we therefore have the commission statement on following up on measures taken by parliament to strengthen the integrity of the european institutions to be added as the fifth point this afternoon. the statement will be wound up with a resolution and the vote will be on thursday. the deadlines are as follows: motions for resolutions, tuesday 14 february at noon; amendments to motions for resolutions, and joint motions for resolutions, wednesday 15 february at noon; amendment to joint motions for resolutions, wednesday 15 february at 13:00; split and separate votes wednesday 15 february at 19:00.
for tuesday, the green, renew and s&d groups have asked that the debate on the council and commission statements on the establishment of an independent eu ethics body be wound up with a resolution to be voted on thursday. i give the floor to mr philippe lamberts to move the request.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of an independent ethics authority at the level of the european institutions was a major precursor to the scandal that has been plaguing us since december, since it was part of the work programme of the president of the european commission. since this parliament does not have the right of legislative initiative, the commission should be a little more active. but we see that, despite the scandal, the proposal is still pending. i think it is important that this parliament should make its voice heard on this subject, by a little more than a debate, and if you will give me the expression, kick the commission's ass a little bit to get things moving. that is the purpose of this resolution which we are proposing to you.
i put the request to the vote by roll call. (parliament agreed to the request)the debate on the council and commission statements on the establishment of an independent eu ethics body will be wound up with a resolution. the vote will be held on thursday. deadlines are as follows: motions for resolutions, tuesday at noon; amendments to the motions for resolutions, and joint motions, wednesday at noon; amendments to joint motions wednesday at 13:00; split and separate votes wednesday at 19:00.
for wednesday, the s&d group has requested that the council and commission statements on ‘no eu funding for wars in europe’ be added as the second item in the afternoon, after the topical debate. i give the floor to ms gabriele bischoff to move the request on behalf of her group.
i have received many other proposals. i have, first of all, an alternative proposal from the id group. i give the floor to mr jean—paul garraud to present the alternative proposal.
i now give the floor to mr jeroen lenaers, to present another alternative proposal, from the epp group.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, we are very happy to support a debate on last week’s council conclusions. in fact, we’ve already wanted to propose this last week, but then the socialists were still against it. so better late than never, i guess. happy to support the debate not under this title, because the level of hypocrisy is simply a bit too high. have you ever seen the border fences in spain? have you ever seen the plans that the finnish government is doing to build a border wall? it is socialist governments rightfully using fences to manage migration. and yet, here you stand arguing that europe should never help any other member state to do the same. as always with the socialists it’s ‘do as i say, not do as i do’. so yes, we would like to have a debate on the council conclusions under the words that the council itself chose with the support of socialist prime ministers. and this is follow-up on the european council conclusions: mobilising eu funds, reinforcing border protection capabilities.
i now give the floor to ms sophie in 't veld, to present another alternative proposal, from the renew group.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, it’s always a joy to hear the epp reproaching the rest of us for being hypocrites. just to frame the issue a little bit, i think we should have a debate and remind the european council of the fact that their conclusions are actually a political statement; the european council is neither a legislator nor the budgetary authority, contrary to the european parliament. the migration issue requires not grand statements and posturing and fake solutions – it requires real solutions. that is what we as a legislator and the budgetary authority are working on, very diligently, and that is why my group would like to propose a debate with the title ‘referring to the euco conclusions and the need for a speedy finalisation of the roadmap’. because we do serious work here, we work on real solutions, and i think that is what we want to debate with the european council.
ms bischoff, would you agree with the proposal from the id group, or the proposal from the epp group, or the proposal from the renew group? if your answer is ‘no’ then we will vote on the proposal from the s&d group by roll call. (parliament rejected the s&d group’s proposal)so now i ask, mr garraud, do you maintain your initial proposal? i see that you do, so we vote on the request of the id group by roll call. (parliament rejected the id group’s proposal)so now i ask mr lenaers, do you maintain your initial proposal? i see that you do, so we put the request of the epp group to a vote by roll call. (parliament rejected the epp group’s proposal)so i ask you, ms in ‘t veld, do you maintain your initial proposal? i see that you do, so we put the request to a vote. (parliament agreed to the renew group’s proposal)we will therefore have council and commission statements on ‘euco conclusions: the need for the speedy finalisation of the roadmap’ as the second item on wednesday afternoon. still on wednesday, the ecr group has requested that a commission statement on further repression against the people of belarus, in particular the cases of andrzej poczobut and ales bialiatski, be added as the fifth item in the afternoon before the oral questions on adequate minimum income ensuring active inclusion. the debate would be wound up with a resolution to be voted in march i. i give the floor to anna fotyga to move the request.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, colleagues, in the course of criminal war of aggression against ukraine waged by russian federation, alexander lukashenka, the oppressor of belarus, launches his next wave of atrocities against society, in particular by convicting the very important member of the belarusian opposition, an outstanding journalist, andrzej poczobut after 690 days in prison earlier, awaiting this judgment. now court proceedings have started against ales bialiatski, the nobel peace prize winner and one of sakharov prize winners, together with other opposition members. he asked for the court proceedings to be conducted in belarusian, it was rejected. that’s showing the russification of belarus. i kindly ask you to support him.
i give the floor to any colleague who would like to speak against. i see that not to be the case, so i will put the request to the vote by roll call. (parliament agreed to the request)
we will therefore have a commission statement on further repression against the people of belarus, in particular the cases of andrzej poczobut and ales bialiatski, to be added as the fifth item on wednesday afternoon before the oral questions. the statement will be wound up with a resolution, which will be voted on at the march i part-session. the last request for wednesday is that the green group has requested that the resolution on the oral questions on adequate minimum income ensuring active inclusion be postponed to the march i part-session. i give the floor to ms sara matthieu to move the request on behalf of the green group.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, as everyone is aware, i’m sure, there will be a strike on thursday and that means that some members will not be able to vote because they want to join the strike or perhaps they have other travel arrangements. so, as the rapporteur on minimum income, i would urge you to postpone this vote to march. it’s a very important decision when it comes to getting some action done on the eradication of poverty in europe and i think it’s important that all members that want to vote can be present.
does anyone wish to speak against? i see that not to be the case, so i put the request to the vote by show of hands. (parliament rejected the request)the agenda remains unchanged.
the agenda is adopted. the order of business is thus established. (the sitting was briefly suspended)
the next item is the commission statement on the eu's response to the humanitarian situation in turkey and syria following the earthquake (2023/2561 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i wish to start by expressing my heartfelt condolences to the people of türkiye and of syria who have been hit by the devastating earthquake a week ago. our thoughts are with all those who have lost loved ones, the injured, those who lost their homes, and with the first responders working tirelessly to save lives. just hours after the earthquake, the european union mobilised search and rescue teams for türkiye. the european union civil protection mechanism has offered 32 search and rescue teams and 6 medical teams from 21 eu member states and 3 other european participating states. our teams arrived quickly and have participated in the rescue efforts alongside the turkish first responders since. last thursday, i visited gaziantep. the scale of destruction is without precedent in recent times. in türkiye alone, more than 13 million people have been affected. many of them are left homeless in very rough, harsh winter conditions. there is a desperate need for relief materials, including tents and other items to ensure that people have shelter and are protected from the cold. that is why i have decided to mobilise resceu – the eu’s own emergency stockpiles. we have sent 500 temporary accommodation units, 2 000 tents and 8 000 beds to turkey from these european strategic reserves. in addition, 16 member states have already offered various shelter items to help people in türkiye. we have also allocated an additional eur 3 million to humanitarian partners to meet the most urgent needs across the affected locations in türkiye. it is crucial that we also help the people of syria, who have been greatly impacted. and millions of syrians were already dependent on humanitarian aid before the earthquake, with almost 3 million displaced in northwest syria alone. following a request for assistance from the government of syria, as well as an activation of the union’s civil protection mechanism by the world food programme, nine member states so far, as well as one participating state, have already offered in-kind assistance: family tents, sleeping bags, mattresses, beds, food items, winter clothing and more. we are working to ensure that this assistance can be delivered rapidly and equitably to all people who need the assistance. the commission also allocated an additional eur 3.5 million in emergency humanitarian funding to help our partners address urgent needs in syria. they are already providing water and sanitation support, distributing blankets, hot meals, tents and hygiene items. emergency assistance is also being mobilised through a deployment of the european humanitarian response capacity. these are strategic stocks of emergency items, among others in dubai and brindisi, and they will be delivered to syrians affected by the earthquake, including winterised tents, heaters, blankets, water, sanitation, hygiene kits and kitchen sets. we will also offer logistical support to deliver assistance. honourable members, the european union is determined to further scale up support in view of this unprecedented catastrophe. considering the enormous needs, the european commission and the swedish presidency of the council will host next month the donors conference in support of the people of türkiye and syria. this is organised in coordination with the turkish authorities to mobilise international funds, notably for reconstruction and rehabilitation. i look forward to hearing your views in today’s debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. - mr president! now, a week after the devastating earthquake that shook turkey and syria, we must first of all thank those who have been fighting for the sake of those in need, risking their lives in the last week and in these minutes. respect them! it's our job to support their work in every way. let me highlight the humanitarian situation in syria. the aid started in a very difficult security and political situation. however, a much broader engagement is needed for local humanitarian actors to be able to carry out their tasks effectively. after the disaster, i contacted one of the largest aid agencies in the country, the committee for the development of the patriarchs of st. ephrem, as well as the italian humanitarian agency avsi and other non-governmental partners working in syria. the sanctions on banking transactions, electronic devices and wreck clearing machines are severely hampering humanitarian action, according to the internationally recognised organisation, which works closely with the eu. so we have to find a way to overcome the obstacles to reconstruction after the life-saving period without giving up the political goal of sanctions. this is only for the direct benefit of the syrian people! it's time! my dear officer! on this issue you can count on my personal support and that of my group, the european people's party.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. more than 35,000 dead, 2.5 million people affected by the recent earthquake, currently living in very difficult winter conditions, this is the picture from the border of turkey and syria. thousands of frozen and traumatized children, many of them orphaned in an instant. they're all waiting for us to help. i am pleased and grateful to you for launching the first european union aid mechanisms. we must rise above the borders, above the difficult political divisions, and maximize our humanitarian aid. we need to go directly to the affected areas. there are already polish organizations, both catholic and secular. they've been operating in syria for years. today, they say what they need to say. it's worth it, and i encourage you to include them in the distribution of aid. at the same time, from this place, i want to say a very big thank you to all the rescuers from all over the world. in particular, the polish group of firefighters of the husar fire brigade, as well as rescuers from the polish mining group, which has already managed to extract many people and continues to work in difficult conditions. i believe we can help many more people who are still alive. may the goodness return to you. thank you, commissioner, and let's do it! you have backup!
madam president, there are situations in which humanitarian considerations, in which the safety of the people must take precedence over any other political or diplomatic considerations. the european union keeps saying this when it comes to migrants, but it hypocritically abandons its great principles when it comes to syria. an earthquake hit it hard. we all here have thoughts for the victims and their families in turkey and syria, who are waiting in anguish. turkey is receiving support from the european union and the international community, and we welcome this. i would like to take this opportunity to greet the french rescue teams who are on the scene. but we know that the distress is even greater in syria, because of the conflict, the destruction of the country, but also the sanctions imposed by the european union. the priority now is to put an end to diplomatic rancor, to forget the blind legal logic of sanctions and to think first of all of the syrian people. our humanitarian aid must also be directed to those suffering and needy people. it's a matter of honor and humanity.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. last week's series of earthquakes struck territories that have been experiencing humanitarian disasters for years. mostly in turkey and syria. that's what makes the quick and efficient delivery of aid and search so complex and difficult. nevertheless, the institutions of the european union and the member states, including to a large extent my own country, poland, have acted very quickly and efficiently. i wanted to thank everyone for this action, but first of all, i want to say that my thoughts and prayers are with the people, the people of turkey, syria and all the other countries affected. we have to make a new effort because the scale of the destruction and the number of casualties is simply unprecedented, unprecedented in history, and previous disasters have made it impossible to measure that scale precisely. we have to be ready for long-term help.
madam president, please. the hardest part was dealing with the stories behind the pain we saw there, said the hungarian hunor rescue team who arrived home last night. our condolences to the victims of the earthquake, their families, and our hope for the recovery of the many injured. hungary was among the first to offer its help, sending search and rescue teams and medical aid to the area. the disaster relief team, together with hungarian charities, has rescued more than 30 people alive from the rubble in turkey with 167 people and 29 search dogs. thank you for your hard work and dedication. hungary is the only european state that is helping in syria. with the support of the hungary helps program, the hungarian malta charity service has deployed mobile rescue stations in the country. after saving lives, the priority now is to provide comprehensive and rapid humanitarian assistance. in addition to human tragedy, the built environment suffered tremendous damage. europe must provide all the help it can to turkey as quickly as possible, but also to the syrian region and population affected by the disaster. that's what we need most right now.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i would like to make a special appeal for help for the victims of the earthquake in syria, where aid is hampered not only by logistical but also by political reasons. the areas where the cataclysm occurred are divided between the government in damascus and a group of rebels. this is a certificate from a medical organization working in aleppo. people are afraid of more buildings collapsing, so many families sleep outside. sometimes in cars, in public parks, on the streets, or in large fields. in some cases, social shelters and local schools have taken in displaced families. since many families share a room, there is often very little privacy, and the rooms are damp and bitterly cold. only a few have blankets or mattresses. many have to sleep directly on the icy floor. many of the shelters lack access to soap and running water, and there is still a shortage of food and blankets to keep people warm. all parties to the syrian civil war should immediately allow humanitarian aid in and allow it to be delivered where it is needed. regardless of who controls the territory.
madam president! we agree that an urgent response to the energy crisis, which is the fault of the european union's leaders, is needed. we as the ecr will vote with a rather abstention, i will propose abstention. we cannot support this proposal because the condition for our support is that the gas infrastructure investments can be financed by grants. and there's a proposal to do it differently. in the current geopolitical situation, the proposal to finance such investments with loans should simply be considered as an inefficient proposal. we are also very sceptical that repowereu will be funded by the ets. we believe that this will prevent those member states which have the money from the sale of free allowances from being able to transform their energy system. so, given that poland may have some benefits from this programme, our position is for the time being to abstain and we will speak about abstention.
in writing. so, in short, we have a power problem. it is not only the russian aggression against ukraine that is the source of this, but also our european "trunk": the naive and reckless reliance on russian gas for the green transition. polish warnings, mocked as russophobic, are now a sober assessment of the situation. repowereu should deliver on our ambitions, it should focus on rebuilding europe's supply chains of raw materials to ensure europe's energy security. and we're not going to do that without relying on a realistic balance of our energy needs. but ultimately, we have another 'ambitious' plan, based on the mirages of meeting our energy needs from green sources. in many cases, it's a cruel joke about citizens struggling with horrendous energy bills. 45% of energy from renewables by 2030? 100% growth in photovoltaics by 2025? my dear colleagues, most of you don't believe it! let's focus on finding economic solutions for cheaper gas and cheap electricity from nuclear power plants. let's make it easier for european entrepreneurs to save energy, instead of telling them how to do it! i'd like to support this project. i want a fair allocation, a real source of funding and investment in gas infrastructure. in the first case, a reasonable compromise was reached, largely thanks to the council. in the others, however, ideological inception prevailed. i call for a real plan for europe! for the safety and rational expenditure of the citizens.
the rapporteur. ladies and gentlemen! the treaty guarantees every citizen of the union who has taken advantage of an opportunity, for example, to reside, work, study or carry out research in a member state of which he is not a national, the right to participate in local elections in a member state. the directive specifying this right needs to be updated, which is why the commission has proposed amendments. i have assessed and assess positively these amendments proposed by the commission. i therefore focused on only certain modifications in my proposal for a report. at this point, i would like to thank all the co-rapporteurs for the many important amendments and the constructive work they have done on the report. first of all, i would like to mention the facilities for the disabled. i am referring to the implementation and use of assistive technologies, such as braille, large print, audio information and sign language communication. the obligation on member states to designate competent authorities to proactively inform union citizens of the conditions and details of registration as a voter or candidate is also of particular importance. i also think it is important to provide clear, specific and comparable data. the commission's commitment to establish common indicators will help to provide a better answer to the question of the efficiency and quality of the functioning of the directive's provisions in subsequent evaluations of its application. in preparing the report, i focused on ensuring that the new rules maximise equality for all citizens of the union in accordance with the treaty's legal basis. at the same time, i have ensured that these changes do not lead to additional expenditure from the budgets of the member states. i also hoped to remain within the scope of the commission's proposal to recast the directive. however, there are some changes in the opposite direction which do not allow me to support the final text of the report. one of them is the obligation to translate most of the information about the elections. the reports on the application of the directive prepared by the commission do not show that this is a factor which hinders citizens from exercising their rights. these changes will impose a significant administrative and financial burden on the municipalities. i cannot be satisfied with the desire to remove the derogation currently in force under the directive, which has been enjoyed by a dozen member states for years. i am referring to the possibility for member states to reserve the right to elect only their own nationals to certain posts. countries such as austria, belgium, the czech republic, estonia, france, greece, italy, the netherlands, poland and slovenia would have to make substantial changes to the rules to allow everyone to hold certain traditional offices, such as mayor, on their territory. the final report contains many important elements which clearly improve the conditions for citizens to exercise their rights, but it is also laden with a number of elements which i consider unacceptable. i'm not gonna be able to support him because of that.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i took due note of this debate of parliament’s proposals to provide more possibilities for mobile eu citizens to exercise their electoral rights and to improve inclusiveness thereof for persons with disabilities. we are dedicated to the same goals. these proposals are only a part of the commission’s larger efforts to increase the resilience of elections and promote broad and inclusive democratic participation. there is still time to get this done ahead of the european parliament elections next year. the commission will work with the council and the presidency to find suitable solutions and achieve the unanimity required by the special legislative procedure as soon as possible.
the rapporteur. ladies and gentlemen! i want to thank you very much for all the votes and for an interesting debate. i think we can all agree that democracy is one of the values on which the union is founded and that all citizens have the right to participate in the democratic life of the union on an equal and transparent basis. i would like to stress here that the legal basis of the treaty is clear. the treaty requires that equal access to the right to vote be guaranteed under the same conditions as nationals of the member state concerned. it is about removing the barriers and inequalities that citizens encounter when they move. i believe that updating, clarifying and strengthening the existing legislation, including through the imposition of a duty to proactively inform migrant citizens about their electoral rights and obligations, is fully justified. such arrangements shall allow for broad and pluralistic participation in local elections and shall support the exercise by mobile union citizens, including persons with disabilities, of their right to participate in the democratic life of the european union. i am confident that my report, despite the doubts i mentioned at the outset, will be studied carefully and will be an important voice in the debate that the council must have. the council must reach a consensus and vote unanimously to amend the directive. i would like to thank all my colleagues once again for the opportunity to work together on the report and on the debate, and i would also like to extend a special thanks to my colleagues, especially mr marcin drwięciki for all his help.
thank you to all of you for this very, very interesting debate. the debate is closed. as you know, the vote will take place on tuesday, february 14, 2023. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the hungarian electoral law complies with the accessibility requirements: anyone with a communication disability due to a visual, hearing or motor disability or intellectual disability can use assistance to exercise their right to vote. political advertisements should be captioned or interpreted into sign language so that the deaf can access the necessary information, and blind people can request information in braille, but also in an easily understandable form. on the day of the vote: a braille voting template may be requested, persons with reduced mobility may vote in accessible polling stations or request a mobile ballot. a person who is unable to read or who is physically handicapped may be assisted by an assistant of his choice, or, failing that, by two members of the counting committee. the proposed amendment to the directive is welcome to move in this direction and to encourage the use of assistive technologies and formats such as braille, large print, voice-based information, tactile writing systems, easy-to-read information and sign language communication. however, the proposed amendment would also introduce new things that cannot be attributed to disability, such as advance physical voting, voting by proxy, and electronic and online voting, by referring to the needs of people with disabilities. it could be a trojan horse we don't want to let through our gates.
in writing. it is estimated that some 13.3 million eu citizens live in another eu member state than the one they came from, and more than 11 million of them are eligible to vote or stand for election. if they were nationals of one country, it would be a medium-sized member state. despite actively exercising their right to free movement and often recognising the benefits of eu membership, their participation in the elections in the countries where they live is very low compared to the citizens of the host countries. the amendment of this directive aims to remove obstacles, in particular those related to voter registration or access to information, so that eu citizens who are migrants can become more actively involved in the democratic processes in the country in which they live. it also requires member states to ensure that the needs of vulnerable and marginalised groups, such as access to voting for people with disabilities, the elderly or the homeless, are taken into account.
the epp group has sent the president a decision on the change of appointments to a delegation. this decision shall be entered in the minutes of today's meeting and shall enter into force on the day of its publication.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on eu funding for ngos accused of corruption in recent cases and on the protection of eu financial interests (2023/2563 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for the opportunity to discuss funding for civil society organisations today in the context of the recent revelations. the commission is politically committed and legally bound to ensure that organisations and projects involved in criminal unethical practices or those incompatible with human values don't receive eu financial support. this, of course, includes upholding the eu charter of fundamental rights and the principle of sound financial management. the commission also acknowledges and supports the key role that independent civil society organisations play for the well functioning of our democracies by upholding the common values on which the union is founded: the rule of law, fundamental rights and democracy. ngos monitor this and draw attention to threats to our values. ngos also play an important role in the detection, prevention and fight against corruption. however, there can be bad apples in the bunch, and the legal framework set by the financial regulation aims at ensuring the protection of the union financial interests. in this regard, this framework applies fully to ngos, that are subject to the same rules and the financial regulation as for any other entity receiving eu funding. prior to the award of eu funding the commission carries out rigorous selection processes, ensuring that funding is in line with eu values. during their lifetime, eu funded projects are closely monitored to ensure that they are implemented in accordance with the agreements and the description of works. the commission has not and will not hesitate to take appropriate action against any beneficiary of eu funding that is confirmed to be in breach of applicable rules. all relevant agreements establish various mechanism to safeguard the proper use of union funds. controls or audits are put in place to identify irregularities, fraud or a breach of obligations. and in the event of these occurring, including the violation of eu values, contracts may be suspended, terminated or reduced and funds may be recovered. as an example of applying the above mechanism and in view of the ongoing criminal investigation, the commission has suspended all payments for the projects in libya contracted with the ngo ‘no peace without justice’ as a precautionary measure. the commission ensures also that eu funds do not end up benefiting organisations that breach eu values, so the implementation of the early detection exclusion system. the exclusion grounds for applicants and recipients of union funds include grave professional misconduct, terrorist financing, fraud and corruption. lastly, all entities implementing eu funds also subject to eu restrictive measures stemming from article 250 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the connected council regulations. those who allow targeting of governments of non-eu countries, companies, groups, organisations or individuals, and prohibiting listed entities or persons from receiving eu funding. if an entity is engaged in any criminal or unethical practices or acts against the eu values, we have the legal framework in place to prevent such entity from receiving eu funding.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, ngos are a very important part of our society and - as the commissioner has made very clear - they have vital and important tasks to perform. i am involved in several organizations myself, and so i am very aware and know firsthand how valuable the work of ngos and also of foundations is. that is why it is all the worse that some black sheep are now threatening to discredit the work and reputation of reputable organisations. the corruption scandal surrounding former vice-president kaili has shown that ngos can be used far too easily and unobserved by third countries or criminal structures as vehicles for their interests and criminal enterprises. we therefore need clear rules on transparency, funding and the activities of ngos. we need a european equivalent to the us foreign agents registration act (fara). third countries and criminal ngos must not be allowed to use them as a cover organisation to influence political decision-making in disguise, to pay bribes and to take eu funds. it has also happened on several occasions, mr commissioner, that despite all the alleged scrutiny, even organisations monitored by the constitutional guard have received financial support. we need to be more vigilant here. the financial and non-financial flows of ngos must be disclosed accordingly. i have to say, frankly, that the organizations i represent have no problem at all with doing this. this does not mean that they are disclosed in a public list, but that they are submitted for examination by the auditors and the necessary organisations. secondly, however, we must also examine whether expenditure is actually going where it should. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i would say that ngos must respect the eu's fundamental values and reflect this in their organisational structure. we expect the commission to do so, and to do so systematically.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. yes, this corruption scandal must be resolved without reservation - that is, without any ifs or buts. this is true of foreign governments that have had an influence. this applies to members or former members who, as things stand, have exerted influence. and it's also true for sham ngos that have taken advantage of the good attributes of the ngo, the good attributes, the good qualities of civil society. i can say on behalf of the subcommittee i have taken over, the human rights committee, that the colleagues are determined not to allow anything to pass that would in any way discredit our work. quite the opposite. we are here for the people who have no voice, whose rights are being violated, but not for those who carry suitcases around the neighborhood. mrs hohlmeier is right: we must be careful. but let's maybe get a little more radical. it is not just ngos that are suspected of embezzling or misusing funds. all those who receive funds from us should be placed on the same bench and examined to the same extent and held to account in the same way. and we must review our practices, but not only in the committees and not only in the commission. sometimes, mrs hohlmeier, we - and this will surprise you - have to be more careful in our services, right up to the top of this house, when we grant authorisations to use the scientific services or other resources of the house without registering the relevant civil society organisations. it can't happen again. i expect a constructive debate, but one without a witch-hunt against the people in civil society that we desperately need.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. you say that the fact that you as a union funded an organization that laundered dirty money for qatari corruption is just a case you're drawing conclusions from. well, no, it wasn't. it's just a natural consequence of the world you've created. a world where you cherish your own self-adulation on one side and your hatred of people and democracy on the other. you're silently and forcefully taking away the people's sovereignty and their rights. because if you put treaty changes to a referendum, you lost to the krets. do you remember the constitution for europe? instead of listening to the people, you want to change their government by force? professor joseph gerliński wrote in his book "oświęcim the fighting" that to survive this hell, one had to have two things. a strong faith in god and the love of someone close to us who's waiting for us to come back. you want to kill god, but you love only yourselves. certainly not a neighbor, since you're introducing euthanasia and abortion on demand. you want to kill people against their will, rob them of their dignity because they can interfere with the supposed comfort of your lives. you support social media censorship and the ostracism of those who think differently. you hate europe and its traditions, which is why you are happy to let people in who want to destroy it, and you attack freedom, christianity, the traditional family and all the states that support them. and all it took was for an organization to come and tell you that the most important thing for them was the fight for the rule of law in poland, and you gave them millions without seeing how they destroyed the rule of law themselves. so there's no coincidence in what happened, because corruption, russia, war, or the destruction of the rule of law don't bother you as much as tradition and its defenders.
madam president, mr. vice president, i have to go. fellow workers! this regulation is an invasion of privacy and property, it's an invasion of competition and an invasion of the free market. finally, it is a regulation that will deepen the energy crisis and road closures. and then it's just greenwashing. the battery is composed entirely of carbon trace elements, not to mention lithium, which has skyrocketed in price thousands of times over. mining it is an absolute environmental disaster, a ton of lithium is equivalent to a dozen tons of carbon dioxide, not to mention the amount of water that is needed to extract it. at the same time, following the scandal in the socialist group and the scandal that is brewing in the green group, because the rapporteurs are caught in the dirty lobbying of outside companies, i call on the bureau of the european parliament to give this regulation special consideration. how much did they charge? who is behind this regulation that is ruining the european economy?
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. your statement shows that you are very pleased with the solution that is being proposed. my question is this: are you not concerned that this solution of producing electric motors and eliminating combustion engines will lead to the creation of a mountain of toxic waste? today, in the european union, we have a plastic tax. there was a time when everything was plastic. today, european countries are taxing unprocessed plastic. don't you think it's going to be the same with batteries, that there's going to be a problem with disposing of those batteries? and what will you say to the people who will have to pay millions of euros in new taxes for your idea today?
the european parliament voted on the agreement on new co2 emission reduction targets for cars and vans. this dossier is part of the european green deal to enable the green transition in europe. with this 'fit for 55' agreement, the path to a climate-neutral europe will soon be visible right down to our driveway. the european parliament, the european commission and the member states reached an agreement on this in october 2022 and this agreement was confirmed in the plenary vote. in concrete terms, the new legislation imposes a reduction target of 100% by 2035. this means that new cars and vans sold in the eu will no longer be allowed to run on a fossil fuel engine. however, flanders has even more ambitious objectives. according to the flemish climate plan, the phase-out will start in 2029. this is one of our key levers to reduce co2 emissions and make electric cars more affordable. therefore, cd&v supports this legislation.
dear colleagues, today it is a pleasure to have with us the president of latvia, egils levits. president levits, we are honoured that you will address the house of european democracy shortly before the first anniversary of the russian invasion of ukraine. since 24 february 2022 – the day putin’s regime launched an illegal and brutal attack on sovereign ukraine – latvia has led on shaping eu policy and has demonstrated unwavering support for ukraine’s cause and solidarity with the ukrainian people. there is no doubt that the world has changed after 356 days of war on our continent. throughout that change, i am glad that the european union can count on members like latvia, and latvia can count on the european union too. we know that together the european union will build a real security and defence union. president, your country knows – as you also know – what it means to be under political pressure from an oppressive authoritarian regime. our european union must remain the guarantee that the past can never again be the future. the last generation broke down walls and tore open curtains in the name of liberty and democracy. that is europe’s legacy and one that it is now up to us to preserve. latvia is a symbol of hope, of transformation and of the enduring proof in a people and a nation’s ability to overcome the odds, to break free from authoritarianism and join a union based on shared values of justice, freedom and democracy. the european union must prevail and unity must prevail, because it is only together that europe can rise to meet the challenges of our time. president levits, the floor is yours.
president of the republic of latvia. madam president of the european parliament! ladies and gentlemen of the house, first of all, on behalf of the latvian people, i would like to express our condolences to the relatives of the victims of the recent earthquakes in turkey and syria. europe stands in solidarity with our neighbours in this tragedy. ladies and gentlemen! the european parliament is the political heart of europe. it is a meeting place for the diverse interests, thoughts and opinions of the citizens of the european union. it is here that the collective thought of 450 million european citizens is formed and crystallised. europe must use its economic, intellectual and cultural potential to enable all 450 million of us to shape our lives in accordance with our values and to achieve our goals. ladies and gentlemen, the citizen of a member state is at the same time a citizen of the european union. cela signifie que, en premier lieu, it is linked to its nation, its society, its culture and its language. it carries the responsibility of its democracy and its safeguard. his political horizon is all about the future of his state. however, the citizens of the european union are not afraid to do so. being a citizen of the european union means not only caring about your country, but also about the european union. travel and double duty. this also means that european citizens must take their stand on the european union as a whole. not only for their country, but for the whole of our european union. it is up to all of us, european citizens, and especially to those responsible for politics, to take the high road from a national point of view to a supranational vision. my lady and gentleman! we must work together in this common european vision. after the collapse of the soviet bloc, europe has grown together. the artificially created political and economic borders were gradually dismantled. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european story is always told in a far-reaching way, only from the point of view of western europe. this lack of provincialism in the understanding of the whole of europe is hindering us in achieving our goals. the complete history of europe is a history in which all european nations can recognise themselves and their historical experiences. the european union today has no centre and no periphery. europe is being created and shaped today in riga and paris, warsaw and berlin, bucharest and brussels, prague and rome. (beifall) in all european countries, in all european cities. also in oslo. also in berlin. it's also in london. and also in kiev. (beifall) honourable members, we need a common understanding of european history where there is a place for the historical experience of all european nations. we need to consolidate a common point of view from which the whole of europe from north to south, from east to west can be seen, and from which the world, and europe's place in it, is clear, so that we can define what europe wants to achieve globally. over 20 years ago, the german political philosopher jürgen habermas identified the lack of a common european public opinion (europäische öffentlichkeit) as one of the european union's biggest problems. since then, i believe that things have somewhat improved. the common european public opinion has acquired greater significance in the minds of citizens. crises such as the covid-19 pandemic and russia's aggression towards ukraine have also contributed to our common consciousness of us as europeans. this is the basis of europe's ability to act. the european parliament is a unique, democratically legitimised european forum. i, therefore, call on you, honourable members, to play a more active role in shaping the common european public opinion. this does not mean merely advancing national, economic or other interests in a fierce battle for compromise. in parliamentary debates and decisions, you need to achieve a european vision that is qualitatively more advanced than just agreeing on a price. your solutions must be truly european. such solutions must equally incorporate the national and historical experiences and actual equitable interests of all member states. they must synthesise them into a new quality. that is what european citizens expect from you. to represent the whole european union, we need to understand its member states better. for example, only a very small number of the members of the european parliament have ever been to latvia. let me therefore today encourage you to visit latvia and get to know us better. when thinking about european solutions, we need to be clear about the european foundations. our shared values and our common european legal system are precisely what distinguish the european union from all other international organisations, from all other regional platforms. our values and legal system make europe and our common european way of life attractive for us and attractive to others. values such as democracy, the rule of law, and fundamental human rights. they are a source of strength for the european union. the member states of the european union are, in principle, stable, consolidated democracies. however, we face serious challenges. the most obvious challenge is the desire to limit the rule of law on the basis of populist arguments about the will of the people. a modern constitutional democracy is based on a carefully balanced system. on the one hand, you have a democratically legitimised parliament and government. on the other, an independent, professionally legitimised judiciary. the democratic process itself, free elections and political freedoms the very core of the european union's political identity can only be guaranteed by such a system of checks and balances. i say this with my 24 years of experience as a judge at the european court of human rights and the court of justice of the european union. the upsetting of this balance, which the proponents of constitutional populism are seeking to achieve, may ultimately lead to the weakening or even the complete loss of democracy itself. europe is united in its diversity. member states are diverse in issues of national identity, culture, language, traditions and social sphere and so it should remain. here europe must not interfere. here diversity is europe's strength. however, the principles of the rule of law must be the same everywhere. here, diversity is permissible only in the concrete manifestations of these principles. the european legal system is based on mutual trust that the same principles apply in all member states in the same way, without exception. if there is a problem with the rule of law in one member state, it affects the entire european union. in some cases, these populist tendencies have already led to disputes that are now difficult to unravel in a purely legal way. in order to avoid an impasse, i think that here we could find a political solution that would cut this gordian knot. this would give the involved parties an opportunity to start afresh. in any case, the rule of law in europe must not be weakened! honourable members, democracy and the rule of law are under threat not only from within. today, it is also threatened by russia's aggressive ideology, which is behind their attack on ukraine a sovereign, democratic european country. the authoritarian russian regime has gone back 200 years in its thinking. it has regressed back to the imperialist, colonialist and racist ideology of the 19th century. as the german example shows, renouncing an aggressive, toxic ideology requires a huge collective effort (vergangenheitsbewältigung). and it takes a long time. but it can be done. until russian society evaluates, overcomes, condemns and clearly renounces this ideology, we have to reckon with russia as an aggressive state. let the romantic notions of the broad russian soul remain for the lovers of literature. this cannot be a leitmotif for politicians who are responsible for europe's security, for europe's future. we must also acknowledge the enormous mistake and naivety of moving purposefully towards dependence on russian energy sources. it would also be good to reflect on how such a mistake was even possible, despite our warnings. certainly, the putinversteher in think-tanks and policy-making circles had a role, as did business interests. in the future, europe and the west, as a whole, must no longer make such strategic mistakes. therefore, we need to be realistic about russia. without false feelings. the effective strategy is deterrence through credible defence capacities. in all areas. if we do not want to betray the values on which the european union is founded, if we do not want to lose our credibility in the eyes of future generations, then europe must be on the right side of history. that means on the side of ukraine. this war must end with the victory of ukraine. russia started the war. russia must end it now and withdraw from ukraine! the european union and its member states have provided significant support to ukraine. i am proud that latvia is currently among the top providers of aid to ukraine in terms of gdp per capita. not only the government, but also local authorities and a vast number of individuals send what help they can. certainly, what ukraine needs most urgently now is military equipment to win the war. but it also needs justice, and it needs a future in europe. and what ukraine needs, we all need. first, some words about law and justice. the charter of the united nations prohibits aggressive war. without this prohibition, the world would fall back into belligerent anarchy. therefore, the waging of a war of aggression against another sovereign state is the gravest possible crime in modern international law. for the first time since the second world war, we are experiencing a war of aggression in europe. international law must therefore respond. there must be a special tribunal to try this crime of aggression. this is not only necessary for the sake of justice for ukraine. it is necessary in order not to undermine the standard of international law that has been achieved since the second world war, and to make it absolutely clear that waging a war of aggression is a crime and those responsible will be brought to justice. none of us wants to live in a world where aggressive war is the norm. however, at the moment, neither the international criminal court nor any other international mechanism can exercise jurisdiction over this crime of aggressive war. therefore, it is necessary to create a special tribunal to try russia's aggression against ukraine. this has been done in the cases of yugoslavia, rwanda, cambodia and others. each case has been different. however, the international community has been creative and has found a way to set up such tribunals. this is all the more necessary in the case of russia because, as i said, we are talking about the most serious international crime. in any case, it is legally possible. all that is needed is political will. latvia was one of the first countries to encourage the creation of such a tribunal last year, shortly after the outbreak of the war. now, this proposal has already received quite broad support. i would particularly like to thank you, honourable members, for your resolution of 19 january this year, where you expressed your firm support for the creation of such a tribunal by an overwhelming majority. at the eu-ukraine summit on 3 february, the president of the commission, ursula von der leyen, announced that the european union would establish an international centre for the prosecution of the crime of aggression in ukraine, which would begin to collect evidence. this is already the first practical step towards the creation of such a tribunal. the further political and legal roadmap and details remain to be worked out. in any case, europe must be consistent and ensure that this crime of aggression can be tried in an international court. the use of frozen russian assets for the reconstruction of ukraine must also be ensured. this applies not only to the assets of the oligarchs close to the regime, but in particular to the assets of the central bank of russia. the us, canada and the united kingdom have already done some preliminary work here. again, although complicated, it is legally possible. what is needed is political will. i am confident that the european union will find this political will. in conclusion, madam president, last thursday you rightly said to president zelenskyy here in the european parliament: ukraine is europe, and your nation's future is in the european union. of course, we see how difficult this path will be for ukraine. but we also see the determination and courage of ukrainians. for us, it is much less demanding to be courageous. we have to make the right decision, and this is a historic decision that we might have only one chance to make. the ukrainian people have decided. now it is our turn. (the house rose and accorded president levits a standing ovation)
dear colleagues, before we start the vote it is my sad duty to inform you of the death yesterday of josé maría gil—robles y gil—delgado, who was president of the european parliament from 1997 to 1999 and who was an eminent member of this house for 15 years. he served in many capacities during his parliamentary terms and was a rapporteur for a number of institutional reforms. he will be remembered for having ensured that parliament was directly involved in the negotiations on the treaty of amsterdam, including the inclusion of the legal basis for the adoption of the members’ statute, thanks to which parliament became more independent. it was during his presidency that parliament contributed to the decisions relating to the entry into force of the euro and the start of accession negotiations for ten new member states. he also led this house during the difficult months preceding the resignation of the european commission, a crisis from which this institution emerged stronger. this house mourns him and pays tributes to his legacy. i would ask you now, please, to observe a minute of silence in his memory. (the house rose and observed a minute’s silence)*** we now proceed to the vote. i see there is a point of order.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, the press has been reporting in recent days on a meeting between the european external action service and the governor of xinjiang, mr tuniyaz. we learned a few minutes ago that, at the initiative of the governor of xinjiang, this meeting was only postponed. how can a body of european institutions meet the governor of xinjiang, who is complicit in crimes against humanity, who is an actor in a genocide against the uyghur people? i therefore ask you, madam president, mr vice-president, to ensure that the uyghur people are respected and that the european parliament is respected, which has said that those who are complicit in crimes against humanity and genocide against the uyghur people will not be allowed to meet with the european institutions.
i have received a request from the competent authorities in greece for the parliamentary immunity of mr georgios kyrtsos to be waived. this request is referred to the committee on legal affairs.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
that concludes the vote. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
the next item is the preliminary report by mr kohuta and mr kokalari, drawn up on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the council of europe convention on the prevention and punishment of violence against women and domestic violence (2016/0062rnle) (a9-0021/2023).
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. commissioner, minister, i have to go. one in three women in the union has experienced sexual or physical violence. one in three. sixty-two million of them! violence happens in homes, in taxis, and on the streets. violence happens offline and online. violence happens, but our role is to create a law that ensures safety. the istanbul convention is for that purpose. it's for security. the convention is the most effective tool for combating and preventing violence against women. it imposes specific obligations on states in this area. it's like a protective umbrella. in our report, which we have co-authored with swedish mep arba kokalari, we call for the adoption of the istanbul convention by the whole union. we are sending a strong signal to the european council, which must now take the final decision on its ratification. rado, do not be afraid of me! the lives and health of millions of european women and men are at stake. the adoption of the convention by the union as a whole will provide better protection for refugees from ukraine. they flee their homeland through slovakia or hungary, where the istanbul convention does not apply. let us extend the eu's anti-violence umbrella to them. it is because of the istanbul convention that the kremlin, putin's standard, that first domestic violence is not considered violence, cannot be applied. this case is also very important for the polish people, because we give them a guarantee, a safety net, that as long as poland is in the european union, the anti-violence law will be in force. in defense of the istanbul convention, demonstrations were held throughout poland, not only in warsaw, but also in the katowice market, in sosnowiec or on the alleys in częstochowa. these women's voices must be heard more strongly here in europe. women and their supporters have been protesting for weeks after the illegal constitutional court effectively banned abortion in poland. access to safe and legal abortion must be restored. that is what we are calling for in our report. the choice is on the women's side. that is what we are calling for in our report. another important issue is access to sex education. it's obvious from a scandinavian or a french perspective, but in many countries it's very often a taboo subject. it's totally unnecessary. in a time when pornography is ubiquitous and sexist advertisements are screaming in the streets, honest and universal sex education is absolutely necessary, and it is needed across the union. a systematic, honest sex education, not a gossipy instagram influencer or a porn point of view. we call for it in our report! the next item is the victim support system. we call for financial, psychological support, for access to social housing for victims of violence. instead of "willy plus" for writers, "shelter plus" for victims of domestic violence. the money should go to ngos that actually help people, not to colleagues of prime minister orban or minister czarnka. effective and long-term support for ngos working on women's rights, including through the existing programme 'citizens, rights and values', which i had the honour to negotiate. this will allow the money to flow directly from brussels. that was my priority, and it was also included in our report. the istanbul convention for the whole union is a step in the right direction, a step towards a secure europe. a step towards a more integrated european community and equal opportunities. putin and other autocracies will not be happy.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you, honourable members, for your continuous engagement and support to the common objective of eradicating violence against women and domestic violence. this parliament kept the eu’s accession to the council of europe’s istanbul convention high on the european political agenda for many years. almost six years have passed since the eu signed this convention. meanwhile, the situation for women has not improved. violence against women and domestic violence remain a widespread pan-european phenomenon and a manifestation of discrimination against women. in order to address the data collection requirements of the istanbul convention, eurostat is currently running an eu-wide survey on violence against women. the data collection spans four years and results are published in groups of countries depending on reported data. the recently published results from the first seven member states show high prevalence. the proportion of women who have experienced unwanted behaviour of a sexual nature at the workplace in these seven eu countries ranges from 11% to 41%. these figures show why we need to step up our efforts, and this includes through the eu’s accession to the istanbul convention. i appreciate that there is a strong support in this house and across member states towards this goal. i welcome the swedish presidency’s engagement and the prioritisation of the eu’s accession to the istanbul convention, as well as the ambition to progress the negotiations towards an eu directive combating violence against women and domestic violence. let us use the momentum and move towards the ratification of the istanbul convention at a union level now. the commission stands ready to support. we have taken concrete actions beyond the legislative framework. the commission learnt from years of implementation of the istanbul convention, as well as the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women in several eu member states that this complex phenomenon requires a comprehensive approach. in this regard, your call for enhanced support to civil society organisations working with the women victims of violence has been addressed. under the eur 1.55 billion citizens, equality, rights and values funding programme, the daphne strand is dedicated to preventing and combating – at all levels – all forms of gender-based violence against women and girls, including online violence, and to supporting and protecting all direct and indirect victims of such violence. the daphne strand was substantially increased in comparison to its predecessor, the rights, equality and citizenship programme, with an expected eur 200 million specifically dedicated to combating gender-based violence throughout the course of the programme. currently a call for proposals is published with an envelope of nearly eur 25 million, which aims to select intermediaries to re-grant funding to civil society organisations active at local, regional and national level to prevent and combat gender-based violence. this re-granting mechanism will make eu funding on gender-based violence more accessible for grassroots civil society organisations. by the end of the year, eurostat will publish further data from its eu-wide survey on violence against women in 18 member states. this means we will have up-to-date, comparable data across the 27 member states, thanks to your persistent and longstanding call for it. we know that a substantial number of violent experiences are not reported or officially recorded. it is therefore key to conduct population surveys in addition to administrative data to get the full picture. a comprehensive set of data will enable the commission and the co-legislators to design and implement evidence-based policy and legal measures targeted to the needs of those exposed to violence. i thank this assembly for its ambitious vision to achieve gender equality, eradicate all forms of discrimination against women, and with that, gender—based violence.
i am thinking of the work we are doing on the directive on violence. i am also thinking of the work we are doing on the directive on violence. but we are here today to discuss, once again, let me say, ladies and gentlemen, something that has not happened. the commissioner said that six years had passed since the european union signed the istanbul convention. and in six years, we know this because we have spoken about it many times, even in this house, in six years thousands of women have been victims of violence. you said it, the rapporteurs said it. one woman in three in our territory, in the european union, is a victim of violence every six hours. we keep repeating it, we keep reminding ourselves, every six hours in our territory a woman is a victim of violence. and these women speak for each of us, because all of us, directly or indirectly, have experienced that violence. yet, in six years, there is no end to this ratification and we are hanging on, let me say, to every clue. and yet femicide, harassment and violence continue unabated. and so, once again, for the umpteenth time, we are here to ask loudly, with this resolution, that things go forward, without wasting time, without fear, because there is no more time, because there is no more time. we don't have any more. women die not because of a natural tragedy, i keep saying this, it's not an earthquake, it's not a flood, women die because they are killed and they are killed by criminals, by criminals who must be stopped, who prey on victims. and then we can use... i think the translation is broken. (the president cut off the speaker due to technical problems)
we continue our debate on the preliminary report by mr kohuta and ms kokalari, drawn up on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the council of europe convention on the prevention and punishment of violence against women and domestic violence (2016/0062r(nle)) (a9-0021/2023).
i hope that the technical problem is now solved and i shall therefore begin my speech again. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done and commissioner dalli for the important work we are doing together in the femm committee. there is another important dossier on violence, the long-awaited directive on which we are working very hard. this debate has a certain flavour of something that should have happened a while ago and that has not happened because the rapporteurs have mentioned it and i want to say it too. it has been six years, almost six years, since the european union signed the istanbul convention and in six years thousands and thousands of women have been victims of violence. you have mentioned it, we have mentioned it many times in this house: one woman in three in our union is a victim of violence every six hours. as we have reminded so many times in this chamber, these stories, these women speak for each of us, because each of us, directly or indirectly, has had experience of what violence is and how we recognize violence. and yet, in six years, despite all that has happened, we have still not been able to get this ratification and we are hanging on to every nook and cranny, legal and otherwise. and while femicides continue, harassment continues and violence continues in front of everyone's eyes. and so what i want to say again here is that this is not a flood, this is not a natural tragedy, this is not an earthquake, women do not die because of a natural tragedy, they die because of crimes, because they are killed by criminals and they are abused by criminals. and so, in relation to all this, we have a duty to react. this house, this parliament exists, but everyone must play their part and ratification of the istanbul convention is one of the instruments we can and must have at our disposal to eliminate this vile form of prevarication.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam chair, dear colleagues. commissioner. today we again call on the member states to ratify the istanbul convention. it is shameful that six member states have not ratified it: bulgaria, czech republic, hungary, latvia, lithuania and slovakia. even more worrying are the declarations from governments to withdraw from the convention, like in poland. it is therefore important that the council proceed with the eu accession so that we can be part of the convention as a whole. this process has been ongoing since 2015 and many of the children who suffered under domestic violence back then are now adult people. do they still have faith in europe? not so sure. i welcome the initiative of the commission and the proposal for a directive on combating violence against women and domestic violence. but it is not enough. there is so much more which needs to be done. we need preventive measures such as education, support services and protection measures, financial assistance, psychological support, helplines, shelters, access to social housing, support for children, assisting the victims to continue living safely in their home through easy access to restraining orders, especially support for children. and visitation rights for children and needs to be addressed, as do the civil issues such as consequences of forced marriage. the list goes on. we need to start addressing these issues and accession to the istanbul convention is of utmost importance.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm from poland, a country that signed the convention in 2012 and ratified it in 2015. for months, the convention was in the government freezer, and it was not the term of the pis government. why would you do that? it's hard to understand. in 2014, i began coordinating the governmental process for poland's ratification of the convention on behalf of the government's commissioner for equal treatment, under the government of prime minister ewa kopacz. then came the attacks on the convention from the right. the convention has been called gender ideology. why would you do that? it's hard to understand. this is the 21st century. women are beaten, raped, attacked. they experience violence in their own homes, in their workplaces, on the streets, on the internet. when they seek justice, they are blamed and shamed by law enforcement and the judiciary, even though the perpetrator is solely responsible for the violence. the convention is a constitution of the rights of women who have experienced violence. it gives clear guidelines on how to support victims, how to punish perpetrators, how to eliminate harmful stereotypes. the convention is on the side of the women, the side of the victims. why, then, have several eu member states not ratified it? why does poland, which ratified the convention, want to withdraw from it now? it's hard to understand. but it is even more difficult to understand why the european union has not ratified the convention so far. she should be a leader in women's rights. failure to act is acceptance of violence. to remain silent is to side with the perpetrator. it's the 21st century, and it's time to end the era of taking sides with the perpetrator. for the time being, we're on the side of the victims, we're on the side of the women.
i would inform the honourable member that, due to the very long delay, we are no longer allowing blue cards for the rest of this debate.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. it needs to come out very loud and clear. violence against women is not acceptable. there is no justification for it, and there is no excuse for it. this violence is not just physical, it's also psychological today. it's based on mocking, ridiculing, for example, for appearance, opinions, or any weakness that is common to us as human beings, natural to us. the european left has fallen into its own ideological traps. why would you do that? because let's look at the statistics. in countries ruled by the left, has anything happened that would make the issue of protecting victims of violence a higher priority? no, i'm not going. meanwhile, in the country that you're so attacking in poland, we've introduced revolutionary tools to combat domestic violence since 2020. today, according to independent rankings, poland is among the countries with the highest standard of protection for women, and abusers are removed from their homes within an hour. an amendment is being prepared that will guarantee a complete package of protection for women, victims of harassment in public places and online. we've saved about ten thousand families from violence since these laws went into effect. that's how conservative government works.
member of the commission. – mr president, violence impacts women’s general well-being and prevents us women from fully participating in society. but this is not only about us women: it impacts our families, our communities, our societies; it has a tremendous cost, from greater strains on health care to legal expenses and losses in productivity. we will not live in a truly fair and equal union until women and girls live free of fear of aggression or violence. twelve years after its adoption, the istanbul convention continues to constitute the international gold standard guiding our actions against this form of violence. you can count on the full commitment of the commission to continue taking comprehensive action to eradicate violence against women and support the conclusion of the eu’s accession to the istanbul convention.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. thank you for a very good debate. the istanbul convention is also a choice of civilization. governments blocking decisions in the council must answer the question, where is it closer to them? whether it's the murderers in turkey who recently denounced the convention, or the ukraine, which has been fired upon, signed this anti-violence law. the council of courage! democratic leaders cannot be held hostage by populists who are vocal but in the minority. it's time to ratify the istanbul convention. when the member states fail, the union must act, the union must protect its citizens. deputy kemp, these tools you mentioned, they're thanks to the istanbul convention. you should learn from this, not rely on kremlin propaganda from the ordo iuris. i would like to thank arba kokalari and all the rapporteurs and advisers for their constructive and hard work. we have proven that women's rights can be beyond the political dispute of democratic parties in europe. history is happening right before our eyes. at the same time, i would like to dedicate this moment in history, this report, to all the people who have fought so bravely for women's rights and democracy in poland for the past eight years. it's a great honor to represent you here. i also want to thank two women who are no longer with us: my mother grazyna and my grandmother irene, without whom i would never have been here. and these two, the silesian strong women, have proved all their lives that a woman can do very, very much. and despite the hardships, he can reach the top.
in writing. the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, the so-called istanbul convention, is controversial. these are legal concerns, as well as doubts about their compatibility with eu primary law, and methodological concerns. studies have shown that the convention is not effective in combating violence, for example by ignoring its real sources, such as social pathologies, individual problems or addictions. the phenomenon of violence is treated in a structural way, based on the false premise of gender-based violence. the convention sees the source of violence in culture and tradition. yet, experience shows that it is the traditional social institutions that act as a shield against violence. for example, children of mothers who live in a common-law relationship are 33 times more likely to experience violence than children of married parents. the fundamental rights agency (fra) studies show that poland has the lowest level of violence against women 19% (compared with denmark's 52%, and the netherlands' 45%), and it is poland that is accused of not implementing the provisions of the convention. violence against women and domestic violence is too serious a problem to be used to impose any ideology on societies. the ideological basis of the convention makes it counterproductive. i would also point out that the objectives set out in the convention are not within the competence of the european union.
author. – mr president, commissioner, minister, dear colleagues, as you are aware, in march, a delegation of the european parliament’s committee on women’s rights and gender equality, which i have an honour to chair, will attend the 67th session of the united nations commission on the status of women called csw. this year’s csw will focus on innovation and technological change and on education in the digital age for achieving gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls. the gender gap in digital access and skills persists, with women remaining digitally marginalised. growing gender inequalities exist in terms of access to connectivity, digital education and skills, as well as access to technologies, preventing women’s economic independence and empowerment. however, when women and girls do have access to internet, they also face online violence and experience different forms of cyber harassment. this is why it’s of the utmost importance that the european union shows strong leadership and takes a unified position on the importance of empowering women and girls in all their diversity and achieving gender equality in the digital transformation. in light of the current backlash against gender equality happening across the eu and worldwide, we must take strong action to unequivocally denounce attacks on women and girls and support calls for the standardisation of women’s rights. we need to ensure that all women and girls can finally enjoy equal rights. but this can only be achieved if all eu institutions – i stress, all eu institutions – cooperate and speak with one voice. therefore, i want to use this opportunity to call on my colleagues from the commission and from the council to ensure the full involvement of parliament and the femm committee in the decision-making process concerning the eu’s position at the 67th session of the csw, and to guarantee that we are properly represented, which was not always the case at the events and high-level meetings organised during the session. we also repeat our constant calls, which have not been always heard, for this parliament to receive adequate information and access to the eu position document ahead of the negotiations. given this, on behalf of the femm committee, i would like to ask whether first the commission can provide details of the main points in the european union position for the un csw 67 and on how parliament’s priorities will be incorporated. will the commission grant parliament access to the eu position paper on the preparation for the 67th session? how will the commission ensure a stronger coordinated eu approach and ambitious and robust commitments, including specific measures to promote real, real progress towards gender equality? how can we adjust our policies to improve widespread access to science, technology, engineering and mathematics? secondly, what can be done to accelerate the implementation of the international commitments already made? what new measures are planned against the effects of digital marginalisation and against their disproportionate impacts on women and girls? taking into account all forms of discrimination with specific attention to gender-based violence, including online violence, of course. what concrete actions through the relevant future eu strategies and policy processes, including budgetary policies and collection of relevant gender desegregated data, are planned? specifically, what steps will be taken to mainstream – really mainstream – the gender perspective in all real regular prevalent eu policies and programmes? thank you for your time and i count on your fruitful cooperation in this regard, finally, and for the future.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. today, the civilized world celebrates valentine's day, but we forget that for christian europe, february 14 is first and foremost the feast of cyril and methodius. those who brought christianity to the western balkans brought christianity to the slavs. these saints were the first to translate the bible into old church slavonic, establishing the cyrillic alphabet. why am i bringing this up? because today, modern europe is considering whether to join the european community of the western balkan states. what's the alternative? if we don't join these countries, it will be like in the ninth century, when cyril and methodius went in the direction of the slavs, that is, we will give the western balkans to the influence of russia, to the influence of putin, but also to the islamic wahhabis. why is that so important? because today the question is whether the request for early accession of ukraine, moldova and georgia will not delay the accession of the western balkan countries to the european union. i would therefore like to ask whether the commission is aware of this problem.
i am very grateful to you for your reply, commissioner, but i would like to point out a certain disproportion. well, i agree that europe is two lungs, the east lung and the west lung. but does the commission not happen to see that under the pretext of the criteria we are now imposing on the western balkan countries, some of the countries of the old european union, in pursuit of their own particular national interests, are actually multiplying these various requirements in order to prevent the two lungs from breathing in the same way, that is, at the expense of the eastern lung, we are increasing the capacity of the western lung.
member of the commission. – well, my life is much grimmer than being able to think about something like this. but, of course, the best would be to deliver on everything we have designed when it comes to the economic and investment plan for the balkans, meaning that we should have the gas interconnectors built and functioning, bringing azeri gas to the region, meaning that we can build railways and highways, and outcompeting our competitors in the western balkans – we’re getting there, very close. and to see that the region is rediscovered also by investors. but, of course, this is one element. the other element is that we should see at least one country at the end of the mandate that is ready to join. it might look like a tall order at this point but, still, i think now we really need to put all efforts into that so that we have at least one country who has a clear opportunity to join.
commissioner, we talk a lot about these political problems in the enlargement process, such as conflicts between countries, on the one hand, and respect for the rule of law on the other. i personally believe that the biggest problem in the western balkans is the growing backwardness in various policies, including infrastructure, the large backwardness in environmental infrastructure, broadband infrastructure. on the other hand, we have energy problems. the vast amount of coal used to generate electricity heats and accordingly pollutes the air. [... of the ] and the third big problem is the poor outlook of young people and the exodus of young people from this work all over the world. do you think that increasing these investments in this area would, on the one hand, bring this part of europe closer to the european standards that they will have to respect when they join the european union anyway, and, on the other hand, increase support for these countries' accession to the european union?
member of the commission. – well, i couldn't agree more, and what you're looking for is called the economic and investment plan. these are the clear bottlenecks that we have analysed and discovered together with the region. so when we have designed the economic and investment plan, yes, we have seen that there's a tremendous problem of connectivity. be it transport or trade routes, be it energy. there's clearly a lack of energy sources. there's clearly a lack of clean energy sources. the single biggest polluter region, almost globally, is the western balkans. if you look at the coal use and the public health implications related to that, the picture is horrendous. this is why phasing out coal, for example, has been a very important priority of the economic and investment plan. only through replacing coal with gas we would reduce by 65 % the emissions of the region. it's a tremendous decrease, not to mention the public health benefits of this. and yes, i agree with you, we have to help them to create an investor's climate that will attract foreign direct investment. and it's not only infrastructure but also the rule of law and the predictability of the legal system, the judicial system that should provide an opportunity for investors to come. we see now that european investors are looking for new places. so this is the opportunity also for the western balkans. but for that, as you have also said, they need their youth to work for their economy. this is why we have also introduced the youth guarantee scheme for the western balkans, which is exactly the same way as it is for our european member states. so we are doing a lot and i do hope that, at the end of the mandate, the balkans is going to be a much more attractive region. but there are things that need more time than just one mandate. for example, the brain drain, getting back the youth. judging from experience from central and eastern europe, it takes at least ten years to start to really attract the youth. but we have to put the basics there, meaning that there are jobs. there are economic perspectives, not only short term but long term for the youth and for the whole population of the western balkans.
can we say that this investment programme will then generate approximately as much investment as the countries that joined the european union in the last ... since 2004? that's somewhere between five and eight thousand euros per head. and will this money also be distributed in some way more along the lines of cohesion policy, where a lot of people are involved in these projects, not just big national projects that are tied to governments and ministries. i think that decentralising these countries and getting projects to the concrete people on the ground is important in order to get people [...] to express more willingness and enthusiasm for joining the european union.
member of the commission. – well, i’m not sure about this eur 5 000 per capita – that’s a very high number. i don’t think it was eur 5 000 per capita. but what you could see coming out of this, together with the common regional market is this: the economic and investment plan is capable of delivering one third of the gdp of the entire region, eur 30 billion. if you multiply also the effect it has on private investors, i think it would be a much higher number. but the eur 30 billion investment is achievable. according to the figures from the world bank, if the common regional market project goes ahead, meaning that the countries in the western balkans introduce the exact same treatment as we have amongst our member states in the single market and the ‘four freedoms’, they could also raise their gdps by another third. so, the european contribution could be an increase of the gdp of the entire region by two thirds. we are here to help and if we have some additional investments coming in from european private investors, this could really make a big difference.
well, at this moment, i think that the biggest enemy of enlargement is the lack of trust of certain member states. but also, unfortunately, this house is lately manifesting it, too, in its recent country reports in the enlargement strategy, but also in the reports on foreign and security policy. if you read these texts of the ep, it is clear that there is no confidence in the official assessment reports, there is criticism against the commissioner and there is a big deficit of trust concerning the candidate countries, especially those which have conservative governments. and this lack of trust is sensed by the citizens of the candidate countries too. this is not the way to do enlargement policy, especially in times of war and geopolitical battles. these countries need support and need positive messages. in order to rebuild confidence and speed up the process, does the commission think that setting an accession date for the western balkans would be helpful in this situation?
member of the commission. – setting accession dates is an evergreen topic. i think it’s not about dates. it’s about being able to act fast if there is fast delivery. this is what we need to make sure that europe is capable of delivering. so if we have a western balkan partner or several western balkan partners who are able to move ahead faster, then we should also be able to move ahead faster. because, of course, setting accession dates could be a very good tool to create an incentive. but if there is no delivery, the negative impact of a missed accession date is going to be even more terrible. so what is necessary here is to work and to deliver on all the criteria. and, on our side, is to work and deliver all the decisions and to base our work on facts and figures that we see on the ground and try to keep up the pace, or even accelerate the pace, of enlargement.
member of the commission. – well, yes, there have been last minute changes in the electorate law, and that is never a good idea. but we have seen quite difficult discussions on the electoral reform preceding the election. and it is for that reason that we consider this to be not only an issue, but the major reform element that needs delivery before we can move on in the accession negotiations. if you look at our opinion, it is clear that an electoral reform will have to take place. it is part of the criteria that we have put forward and it is endorsed also by the council. so, it is part and parcel of the criteria set out for the candidate status. when it comes to the financing of the candidates, i’m not sure i understand your question. i’m happy to look into it. if there were any cases or other news, we are ready to look into it. but i think a major overhaul of the electoral law is on the cards anyhow. and i hear also from the political actors in the country that this is considered as part and parcel of the criteria.
member of the commission. – i’m not the guardian of the constitution of bosnia and herzegovina. the treaties don’t regulate election laws, not even in our member states. but what we have made very clear is that, of course, the general principles related to electoral law and related to the venice commission opinions and also the jurisprudence of the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina have to be respected. but, politically speaking, one also has to acknowledge that that last—minute amendment carried out by the high representative allowed for a result and also for an election that we could consider a success. so it did have a contribution in that regard. but, as i said, the solution is an electoral reform done in the parliament by the institutions of bosnia and herzegovina.
two questions. one, i absolutely share your assessment that after months of a caretaking government in montenegro, elections are long overdue. you know that there were several tries to get a majority in the parliament for the constitutional court members. my question is, are you also in contact with the current opposition, that at least rhetorically, also supports the path towards accession to gear up their attention and readiness to support the compromise? i also heard the news that they are coming close to it, but it has not yet been decided in parliament. i think we need to back them and put a little bit of pressure there. and second question, towards north macedonia. we have a government there that is very pro-european, but only rhetoric will not save the government through the next elections. the government is perceived in the country to not really deliver to citizens. do you have plans of support – how we can make it more visible that european funds are actually delivering to citizens to back the pro-european notion that we still hope has a majority in north macedonia?
member of the commission. – first of all, these days it’s difficult to know who is in opposition or in government in montenegro. but yes, i am reaching out to everybody and trying to convince everybody to have elections. but i think by now the message is there, in podgorica, and the message is very clear: that the country is losing very precious time. i have the latest news, as i told you, getting here was that they are supposed to have a vote on 27 february. so basically, that is next week. and i’m very hopeful that this time, this will unblock also the elections, because the country badly needs a strong government and the country badly needs now work to go ahead swiftly. in north macedonia, we have just put on the table a proposal, for this house and also for the council, for a new macro financial assistance of eur 100 million, because, yes, north macedonia is suffering very heavily the consequences of russia’s war against ukraine. they have been aligning themselves fully with the sanctions and this has a major economic impact in the country and we try to help them. this is why we have also come forward with the economic rescue package for the entire western balkans to help to mitigate the impact of this war. and that is just about to be released also. of course, in north macedonia, it is also the government’s job to deliver on the eu reforms and to not only deliver on the eu reforms but also to deliver on the funds and implement the funds. and there, yes, we see some slowing down, but i do hope that we can accelerate there as well this year.
dear commissioner, i want to thank you once again for putting in place an economic and investment plan; i think it is the right medicine for political, but also for other, reasons in the western balkans. you took the approach for being more optimistic about the future of the region, and rightly so, because you represent the european commission, which is called geopolitical, the european commission – i reiterated several times that we have to have a political european commission before becoming a geopolitical european commission. and if i look at the western balkans, it’s a very much inter-governmental european union, it very much represents of the european union of today. we have special representatives – germany, slovenia, austria and many more. how is this helping you, commissioner, to do your job in a proper european way? we have several initiatives – berlin process, other initiatives, the americans came with an initiative. how you are going to combine efforts in order to bring the european union as strong as possible if the citizens of the western balkans are looking at us from an angle of criticism? they should see a european union united. so, two questions on special representatives and initiatives coming from different sides of europe, but also from across the atlantic.
member of the commission. – well, i think that there’s a very big potential in complementarity and this is what we have tried to build during this mandate, meaning to reach out to our member states who are active on the western balkans and try to complement the work that we’re doing. i’ll give you one example: the common regional market, which is complementary to the berlin process. i would say this is the substance of the berlin process by now – to bring the four freedoms much faster to the western balkans and to help them to overcome also the common history, because this is also a way to do away with all these bad memories in the western balkans. so i think that there’s ample opportunity for complementarity but it means also that we need to work closer. on our side, the commission has always been ready, and we have always been reaching out to the member states, and we will continue to do so. and, to be frank with you, i think it is also appreciated by the member states. it may not have been the case before but now we see a much higher level of impact. you have asked me about special representatives in the plural. we have one special representative in bosnia-herzegovina, which is part and parcel of the dayton agreement and, of course, as you know, on our side, our plan would be that it should be the european union taking over all these responsibilities. and we do hope that bosnia-herzegovina advances so much in its constitutional reforms and in its reforms for democracy, the rule of law, that there won’t be a need for a special representative because the country and its institutions should be strong enough to actually exercise these functions. but until we get there, of course, we are working together with the special representative, and we are in very close contact and dialogue with him, on how to bring forward also the european agenda together for bosnia and herzegovina. we have, of course, our own special representatives also in the bag with the pristina dialogue and there again, i think the work of the commission is to help and also to complement the work. so we try to have the additional elements, arguments, but also additional tools offered to the high representative to actually have a breakthrough, i do hope this year in the bag with the pristina dialogue.
member of the commission. – i think it is very clear that serbia is also a candidate country and it is bound by the exact same conditions and in that, of course, good neighbourly relations is part and parcel of the conditions. and this is why we are also, of course having these criteria taken very seriously when it comes to serbia. in montenegro, i think that the problems are more deeply rooted. this polarisation of the political life has now shown a complete deadlock in the country, a complete deadlock from which only the country can bring itself out of and this is why we are supporting the holding of elections both for parliament and president as fast as possible and to get the necessary political support from the people of montenegro – because it is for the people of montenegro to take the lead and to exercise their will for the future of the country.
member of the commission. – i think that we have made it very clear, also in our report, that cfsp alignment is part and parcel of the accession criteria. we have asked serbia, also as an ally – as a candidate country, we consider it to be an ally – to be on our side and also help us with aligning itself to our cfsp policy, including the measures in it. i think it is also very clear, politically speaking, for anybody who is observing the accession process of serbia, that for many of our member states, this is now maybe the most important criterion against which progress can be made. however, i need to recall that, according to the rules which we are all bound by (i.e. the negotiating framework and the new methodology), cfsp alignment is not a criterion on the basis of which you can suspend accession negotiations. and, as you know, suspending accession negotiations is only the last resort. we have seen one case where the negotiations have been put on hold and you have seen how such a decision can come about. but i’m still hopeful that serbia understands the importance of helping us in this fight against the impact of the war russia has instigated against ukraine. and we are hopeful that serbia will also come around in the end.
mr president, commissioner, the recent visit of the european union special envoy for serbian-kosovar dialogue recalled pristina's stubborn refusal to implement a provision of the 2013 brussels agreement, namely the creation of the association of serb-majority municipalities. this obstinacy, which has persisted for almost a decade, is symptomatic of the ostracism suffered by the serbs of kosovo. what solution do you propose to break the deadlock? secondly, there has been a right criticism of certain visa agreements, which are one of the causes of the migration crisis in the region. another aspect of this crisis has to do with the large number of balkan nationals themselves in the migration flows. i am thinking here of the albanian migrants who are flocking to the united kingdom or to the european union to seek asylum. in the context of the negotiations, i believe that it is urgent to find a solution to this situation, which is incompatible with albania's status as a candidate country. it is also a question of credibility.
member of the commission. – on the first question, i think the best would be to respond by quoting the conclusions of the european council from last week and there, in point 30 of it, the european council made a very clear statement, and not only a statement but a very clear condition for the progress on the european path. i quote, ‘the european council urges both parties to implement, fully and without conditions, the obligations they committed to in the framework of the dialogue, including agreements from the years 2013 and 2015 to create an association/community of serb majority municipalities’. i think the eu line is very clear. it is also very clear that the european path for kosovo goes through – as it is the case for serbia – a successful dialogue. this is why we need now the next round of negotiations to take place. our high representative has a plan. our high representative has negotiated this plan also with both sides. both sides have agreed, in principle, that it can be a basis for further discussions and hopefully agreements in the future. and this is why i hope that with this very clear messaging from the european council, it is clear what needs doing. now, on your second question, the issue of bogus asylum claims. yes, this is not new. this is something that has been also an important element in the run-up to the decision back in 2020 for agreeing in the council to start the accession negotiations with albania and north macedonia. and there the council has been able to come to an agreement because the albanian authorities have engaged even more with our member states, meaning that every time there is a bogus asylum claim, meaning that an asylum claim that has been put there by somebody who is falling under the visa-free regime, and it is an albanian citizen, albania is ready to take back that citizen. the cooperation is ongoing at that level and albania is taking back its citizens who are abusing our social system through bogus asylum claims. so, i think that it is clear that the situation is completely different compared to what it was a couple of years ago. not only that, but we see that what we have put there as arrangements in practice are working and we have very few numbers still in the european union waiting to be returned to albania.
the question is closed.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the establishment of an independent eu ethics panel (2023/2555 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, the council is in favour of a transparent, efficient and accountable european union. these principles should underpin the work carried out by all eu institutions, with no exceptions. it was in this spirit that all 27 member states signed the transparency register launched in september 2021. the council remains committed to these principles and will engage with this parliament to discuss how we can better ensure the highest ethics and transparency standards across eu institutions. regarding the creation of an eu ethics body, the council applied in june of last year to the letter of the commission president on this subject. as stated then, the council stands ready to examine any proposal the commission may submit on an eu ethics body. without pre-empting the discussion on future proposals, there are a number of elements that that the letter from june outlines that should be taken into account. we believe that an eu ethics body should fully respect the institution equality decision making powers, though the roles and particularities of each institution granted by the treaties. it should also avoid any duplication with the work already carried out by existing bodies dealing with this with ethics issues. furthermore, it should take into account the fact that the member states of the council are subjected to national rules and that its staff are subjected to staff regulations, like in every other eu institution. i look forward to hearing from you and your views on what a future ethics body for all institutions should entail.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, madam minister, honourable members, the european institutions and we as their members need the trust of european citizens. and as i said here yesterday at the debate on the strengthening of integrity of the european institutions, citizens can only keep faith in the eu if the principles of ethics, integrity and transparency are fully upheld by the european institutions and by their members. the commission has been uncompromising in delivering the highest standards of transparency and ethics. the treaties and the code of conduct for the members of the european commission require us to observe the highest standards of integrity and ethical conduct during but also after the end of the mandate. most institutions of the eu have a framework which regulates the individual ethical obligations applicable to their members. they are based on general institutional principles and on provisions of the treaties, and they are set out in more detail, either in the rules of procedure or in codes of conduct of the institutions. there are, however, differences in the applicable rules across the institutions. while some differences can be explained by the autonomous role of each institution under the treaties and by the different risks inherent in performing the duties of members, it has become clear that a common set of strong ethical standards is needed. our institutions must work together and join their efforts to develop a common culture of ethics and transparency. in the field of transparency, the european parliament, the council and the commission reached a major milestone with the adoption of the interinstitutional agreement on the transparency register in 2021. the register is the recognition of the importance of a common framework to coordinate the approach to transparency amongst the participating institutions. president von der leyen mentioned already in her political guidelines of 2019 that the commission is also supporting the creation of an independent ethics body common to all eu institutions. the european parliament has been working between 2019 and 2021 on its position in this regard, and i would like to thank you for your impulses and ideas. the adoption of the parliament’s resolution in september 2021 on the establishment of an interinstitutional ethics body was an important contribution to the discussions between the institutions, as clarity and an overall agreement on the scope, role and competences of the body are needed. the resolution was also the opportunity for the commission to share its views that the method for setting up a joint ethical body has to be respectful of the particularities of each institution, including their respective institutional and democratic roles as set out in the treaties. i am happy to announce that based on this extensive work and on the results of the contacts with the other institutions, the commission will, in the next weeks, table a proposal for a joint agreement between the institutions to establish an interinstitutional ethics body. to be truly interinstitutional, this body should be common to all institutions and advisory bodies mentioned in article 13 of the treaty of the european union. while work on drafting the proposal is ongoing, the contacts with all institutions continue to ensure that we propose something meaningful and feasible. the commission believes that the interinstitutional body should serve to ensure, first, that we have common, clear and high standards of integrity and independence in all european institutions; second, that we all have similar control mechanisms in all institutions; and third, that differences between the institutions and the institutional balance established by the founding treaties remain respected. the establishment of the body would demonstrate the importance that all institutions attach to high ethical standards for their members and will thereby contribute to strengthening trust in the institutions and in their members. the interinstitutional body will allow the institutions to benefit from their mutual experiences, to learn from each other, and to reduce discrepancies where those are not necessary or justified by their different institutional roles. the general benefit would be better public understanding of the ethical framework, a common culture for members of our institutions and more clarity on what is acceptable and what is not, for everyone inside and outside the institutions. hence, it would also serve as an important preventive measure aimed at up-front respect of clear rules. ethics and integrity are not something someone else can do for us. ethics and integrity are a daily task for everyone. but what an eu ethics body can do is to help us to live up collectively to the high standards that the citizens and we ourselves should expect from us. this is a common responsibility for all of us. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the ppe group. – a uachtaráin, maintaining a high level of confidence among citizens in european union institutions is imperative, and anyone who holds public office should meet high ethical standards. unfortunately, the scandals that have emerged in recent months have diminished the confidence and trust that eu citizens have in the eu institutions and in the eu project. while ethics standards already exist within the institutions. recent events have revealed shortcomings and suggest that we need a broader framework to ensure compliance and adherence to ethics. there must be clearer rules for lobbyists, for lobbyists becoming politicians, or vice versa, to avoid conflicts of interest. an independent ethics body could indeed provide important guidance in this regard and help ensure that eu institutions are better able to efficiently respond to breaches of ethics rules. indeed, we need high ethical standards with effective measures to ensure citizens’ trust in our institutions. however, an inter-institutional ethics body must respect the defined competences of each institution and advisory body and their corresponding role in the framework of the system of checks and balances laid out in the treaties. an eu ethics body could greatly assist in harmonising ethics rules in the institutions, providing tools and improving the system in general. however, to be sustainable, it needs to ensure it sticks to the task at hand and remains non-political and has broad support across this house. it is also important that the approval process of the european commission remains a duty of the european parliament as it is legitimated by the citizens.
no, it is not true. i deal everybody the same. i knocked after five seconds mr freund and the following speaker mr garraud ten seconds and you were far more than ten seconds more. and we are talking about rules.
i was told there was no finnish translation. mrs hautala has complained.
i would just like to say, mr president, that there was no finnish interpretation of what mr séjourné and mr aubry said. it is probably worthwhile now to ensure that every speech is interpreted in finnish.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must be aware that corruption is one of the greatest enemies of democracies. corruption not only undermines the foundations of the regime, it also encourages the growth of extremist parties that gain votes by exploiting feelings of revolt, with the aim of destroying democracies, a paradox that is important for us to be able to explain to the people. democracies are a greater good that we must protect. the fight against corruption must be one of the first concerns of true democrats. let 's be clear: every time politicians rise to power on the basis of promises they don't keep, fail to resist the temptation of bribery, appropriate taxpayers' money, illegitimately favor people and companies or are corrupt, they commit sins without forgiveness. it is because of politicians like this that, pretty much all over europe, we see the growth of far-left and far-right parties, who unite in votes against the european union, against the euro, against nato and who, in many cases, support russian aggression in ukraine. this leads me to a fundamental conclusion: true democrats must be able to effectively fight corruption in order to strengthen democracies and weaken extremism. this fight must take place in the european parliament and in each of our countries. the cds-pp, which is the only centre-right christian democratic party in portugal, has the fight against corruption at the top of its political agenda. what separates the cds-pp from the extremist parties is democracy, it's freedom. that is why the future growth of the cds-pp is crucial for portugal and it is crucial for the european union.
mr president, the vice-president of the commission! a year and a half ago, the european parliament completed its work on the ethics body and adopted a resolution on the subject. it was sent to the commission with a view to opening interinstitutional negotiations leading to the establishment of that body. as part of our work on the project, we discussed a number of issues concerning competence and the way in which we operate, as well as the composition of the ethics body. we had to deal with many differences of opinion, but we finally defined a reasonable compromise. this was our response to the commission's declarations on the need to establish an effective mechanism to verify that all those employed and working within the european institutions observe the principles and standards of ethical behaviour. we waited for a long time, many months. finally, the commission provided this reply. she was kind, but she was negative. the comments to the european parliament's draft were tantamount to depriving the ethics body of its capacity to act effectively. i must admit that i have been somewhat embarrassed to hear the commission say that it needs to act vigorously in this area. today, commissioner jourová announced that we would shortly receive, we would get to know the commission's draft. we've been waiting a year. of course, we can wait a few more weeks. you mentioned certain rules that must be met by the ethics body. i'd add at least two more. the willingness to set up an independent body with real powers to investigate and clarify reasonable doubts about the conduct of all those working in the institutions of the european union must be a prerequisite for real success. the outcome of this research must be either decisions or publicly presented proposals for such decisions. in the current situation, when we are all being overshadowed by a corruption scandal involving several meps, it is our political and ethical duty to demonstrate to the citizens of the union that we have nothing to hide, that our declarations on the fight against corruption and conflicts of interest as well as unethical conduct are serious, and that it is not our intention to drown the scandal in a sea of meaningless words. the problem is that the procedures and bodies that have been set up to deal with ethical issues in the institutions have proved to be ineffective or ineffective. changing this situation during this term is a condition of our credibility. the eyes of the public in europe are not only on the european parliament, but on all the institutions of the union. and that's our shared responsibility.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. a huge scandal, a deep pathology, and in an organ that should be the most transparent. today we really need to move very quickly and efficiently on how to limit this process, how to bring it down to zero. these are 14 points from chairman metsola, which are going in a very good direction and are worth leaning over, worth accepting, worth discussing. a separate independent body should also be established. these are very good proposals. i would like to draw attention to the fact that the ppe proposes to heal the european parliament, but the same thing is happening to radosław sikorski, who is unable to explain in poland today what he advised the sheikhs of the united arab emirates, for which he collected astronomical funds. or should we say out loud today: no more adding to the mep's salary? that should be the guiding principle of our conduct today and of our thinking about how we can simply limit that conduct. today, the scandal has also hit the socialist group. it was her messages in the notebook of eva kailia, the former panzerman, that were on the agenda. but the european left is leading the charge against the member states, accusing them of a lack of rule of law, including my country, poland. and today we know that all those debates could have been just a smokescreen, and the real affair was sprouting right here in these structures. ladies and gentlemen, any measures that could have an anti-corruption dimension not only in parliament but in all the institutions of the european union, if they are introduced, i would like them to be... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. the establishment of an independent european union (eu) ethics body is crucial to ensure coherence and transparency in the work of the eu institutions, in eu decision-making processes and will increase citizens' trust in the eu institutions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. the main reasons why an independent eu ethics body is necessary are: 1. establishing uniform ethical standards and principles for the eu institutions: common ethical standards and principles for the eu institutions will ensure consistency in the decision-making of the eu institutions. 2.prevention of conflicts of interest and corruption: the independent ethics body will help prevent conflicts of interest and corruption, which is crucial to maintaining citizens' trust in the eu institutions. 3.improve the transparency of eu decision-making: such a body will increase the transparency of eu decision-making processes and make it easier for citizens to understand and engage in decision-making processes. 4.protecting eu values: eu common values, such as respect for human rights and democracy, should be protected and promoted by the eu institutions. an independent ethics body will ensure that the eu institutions uphold these values.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the deadline for the adoption of the regulation to 31 december 2010. ladies and gentlemen! ukraine today is defending peace in europe. and it is our duty as europeans to stand by ukraine, to support it because it will also be a thank you for what they do for us. it is our duty to support ukraine politically, economically, humanitarianally and militarily. decisions must be made boldly and they must be made quickly. there's no time for political calculation, reflection or doubt. let's recall the events that led up to russia's invasion of ukraine last year. 2008 polish president lech kaczynski in georgia said very clearly, when russia tried to attack georgia: today georgia, tomorrow ukraine, then maybe my country, poland. has there been any learning? no, i'm not going. there's been a russian connection all along. putin was welcomed in the salons, there was a reset policy with russia. former polish prime minister donald tusk spoke to putin as an equal. after all, there were economic projects like nord stream 2, formerly nord stream 1. there was an attempt at a so-called reset of policy with russia. and then there was 2014. has there been any learning? no, i'm not going. the former german chancellor was on the board of gazprom. the policy of economic support to russia continued. i'm not saying this to be judgmental, but because we all have to learn from the past. we must support ukraine, as do the european countries, which understand that ukraine's victory will be a victory for all of us. i want to thank all those europeans who opened their hearts to ukraine. i want to thank and i must emphasize the role of poles and poles, polish president andrzej duda and the polish government. ukraine must win, and we must continue to support it and continue to draw lessons from it so that such monstrous aggression in europe never happens again in the future.
president, according to nato secretary general jens stoltenberg, ukraine has been trained and armed by the west since 2014. ukraine has been shooting and killing russian-speaking civilians in the east of the country since 2014. a year ago, russia began to retaliate to stop this racist violence. according to pope francis, this war is clearly provoked by the west. russia is obstructing the united states' ambitions to dominate because it wants to remain sovereign and preserve its own identity. one year later, the eu is in a bad way: it has been severely hit by its own sanctions and the economic outlook has deteriorated severely. worse, the nord stream pipelines were blown up by the us. i call on the european commission to reach out to russia and norway to address their role in this terrible attack. we must lift the sanctions and work for peace and the reconstruction of the economies, identity and sovereignty of the member states.
madam president, madam commission president, mr high representative. the ongoing political crisis in moldova shows us that russia is not limiting its assertive actions only to ukraine. through disinformation and foreign interference, russia is trying to provoke a political crisis within the european union and along european borders. with one year since the start of the russian aggression, what are the lessons to be learned? there are a couple of them – we need to continue supporting ukraine as long as it takes to defend itself; we need to make our sanctions more efficient and close all the gaps that enabled their evasion; common foreign, defence and security policies cannot remain the soft spots of our integration; we need to be strategically autonomous when it comes to essential industries and services; we need to continue working together on reducing our energy dependence; prioritising trade and economic relations without insisting on our political values leaves europe exposed to crisis, and we need more europe to address all these challenges. slava ukraini!
madam president, council and commission representatives, dear colleagues, russia’s imperial chauvinism has triggered war in ukraine, fuelled tensions and instability, and condemned the ukrainian people to unprecedented suffering. for a whole year we have been hearing lies, slander and threats from russia, whose intentions remain unchanged – ready to continue the war in the near future. stopping an aggressive russia means defeating it on the battlefield in ukraine, providing the ukrainians with everything that will enable them to achieve victory, to shorten the war and the suffering it has caused. dear colleagues, no one here wants to discuss a resolution on two years of russia’s invasion and war of aggression against ukraine, so let’s help ukraine with everything that is necessary, let us continue weakening russia’s and belarus’ war capacities and let us punish the guilty according to their unforgivable crimes. it’s a great historical moment and chance for europe to emerge stronger, more united and less dependent on authoritarian regimes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i also listened to mr selensky's remarks in the plenary here in brussels last week and i have two comments to make. firstly, i find it a little strange that there has been no debate on this, because a parliament is the place of the culture of debate, where argument and counterargument should meet and the attempt to find out the best somewhere should take place. and the second is that mr. selensky, according to media reports, has been going around handing out lists of what he would like from which state: some fighter jets, some tanks, now submarines are on the order list. i think that's the wrong way to go. war is and can never be a solution. i know you condemn anyone here who raises their voice for peace anywhere, but i am doing it again and raising my voice for peace. this europe is built on the principles of peace, freedom and prosperity. if you want to be taken half-seriously, you're taking an active role in the peace negotiations now. it's about preventing people from dying in ukraine. every day we move more weapons there, more people die. so please work for peace!
mr president, high representative, vice-president. the alarm bell we have been speaking about since the beginning of this debate is still on, and the war is not over. thousands of ukrainians have perished in this war, and the russian atrocities because of this criminal war of aggression are unbearable. russia has to be defeated. the alarm bell is still on for ukraine and for all of us. we have to deliver whatever is needed to achieve this result now – fighter jets, fighter helicopters and air defence systems with appropriate range. we do this for ourselves and for our children. we have to know this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in nine days, we will mark the first anniversary of russia's criminal, all-out war of aggression against ukraine. we should first of all remember the innocent victims of this breakdown of civilization, the children, women and men who were killed, raped, tortured, forced to flee, who lost everything, and also the ukrainian soldiers who died for a just cause - the defence of their homeland. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take action to deal with this situation. first things first: more ammunition, stronger air defences, more artillery that can reach all parts of occupied ukraine, tanks, not to liberate territories, but people who suffer from the cruel russian occupation and daily arbitrariness. and since russia is not imposing any restrictions on itself, fighter planes must also become part of the ukrainian defense. those in my country who believe that they must deny the ukrainians weapons out of naivety, anti-americanism or secretly out of a historically false german-russian affinity, i call on them to recognize the true face of the dictator in the kremlin! this is the applied fascism of the 21st century. never again! i'm going to the slav ukrajini.
mr president, mr president of the commission, colleagues. the russian aggression in ukraine, which began in 2014, has been intensified because we in the west did not block the way at that time. with fewer resources, europe has agreed to be less principled. there was talk of a strategic partnership that only helped putin raise enough money to invade. we are still hearing in parliament that we are not ready to give up our dependence on third countries. and again, we're trying to justify our inefficiency. is it not time to show by our actions that we have learned from our mistakes? indeed, if we want ukraine to win, why are we still hesitant to grant its arms demands? let us give ukraine everything it needs and turn words into deeds. glory to ukraine!
mr president we condemn russia's unlawful war against ukraine, which has been going on for a year, and we stand by ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity in all forums. the war has claimed enormous sacrifices, torn apart families, shattered the future and dreams of young people in two, regardless of nationality or mother tongue, because hungarians, romanians and other nationalities living in ukraine are all victims of russian aggression and are fighting shoulder to shoulder for victory. despite the difficulties of the war, ukraine continues its path towards european integration. i hope that, in fulfilling the conditions for accession, the linguistic and educational rights of the national minorities living in the country will also be guaranteed in accordance with the copenhagen criteria. the minority law adopted last december, however, does not comply with the principle of equality of rights and therefore needs to be amended, and the union must pay close attention to this. the tragic images of the war in ukraine have been in the news for a year, but we cannot allow the world to become entangled in it and let solidarity become an empty phrase. what could really save lives is peace. we couldn't prevent the tragedy of the earthquake in turkey, but we can do a lot for ukraine.
mr. chairman, please! a year ago, millions of women, children, refugees came to polish homes, to polish families, because putin, in a bandit way, invaded a neighboring country, not for the first time. solidarity, our resolutions, the immediate call for unity and a very firm stance are still not enough, because the power is in the hands of the governments. and as the chairman said, we're running out of time. so why are there doubts about the nuclear embargo? why are russian companies still operating in the european market? all those who have doubts are putin's helpers, his aides - it has to be said very clearly. i call for immediate government action on ukraine's request for help. all requests should be granted immediately, because it is the ukrainians who are fighting for us and for the future and for peace in europe. and we are obligated to do so. i would also ask the president to pay attention to moldova. it's a country that's also suffering from this war and needs help.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! my dear colleagues! the russian aggression is continuing. it's got horrible consequences. tens of thousands killed and ukraine's economy destroyed. none of us wanted this war, none of us want it. but it's about us. we must help ukraine for humanitarian and legal reasons, but also for our own security. ukrainians are defending themselves and us. there are many calls, including in this room, for a diplomatic solution. there's never any question of who or what price he'd pay for the room. it is true that diplomacy is often the best solution. but it's not true that it's always like this. in munich, france and britain traded the czech sudetenland for the illusion of peace. a year later, germany conquered poland and soon other countries, including france. are donbas and crimea to be ukrainian sudetes today? in a year or two, is a paid aggressor going to attack more countries? we have only one sensible choice: to give ukraine full assistance to stop the aggressor.
mr president, we keep asking the question, why this war lasts so long? the answer is simple, because many still too many of those who decide care more about future phase of russia than about the security of ukraine. it's a paradox that the way to create peace and maybe put democracy in russia is to defeat putin's regime. the first step to achieve this goal is to help ukraine not only to defend itself, but to defeat russia. a free, democratic, sovereign ukraine, a member state of the european union will be the best message for the russian society that there is an alternative way of being the country.
mr president, mr high representative, i want to start by congratulating you, mr borrell, on your extraordinary statement, namely, the word peace. i disagree with what my colleague said earlier, that if we say peace we help putin. no, we're helping people stop dying. and yes, you have to make this intervention at the un. little has killed by attacking ukraine enough people. i also disagree with what was said, that guns don't help, that guns don't kill people. guns kill people. that's why, mr. borrell, you're going down this road. we are in touch, as the european union, and with nato, because we know well, moldova is now already being monitored by putin and we must give importance to moldova as well. my country is on the border with ukraine. we helped ukraine, romania helped ukraine, the european union helped the citizens there, but we have to find a way to stop this disaster and the death of thousands of people.
mr president, for a year now the european union and its governments have been portraying the imperialist war in ukraine as a one-off project. but it is the result of a long-term process of escalation of conflict between nato, the united states, the european union and capitalist russia in the territory of fierce monopoly competition between them. the ukrainian and russian peoples, who for seven decades in the soviet union lived in peace, have been their victims. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. both sides are capitalist. the communist party of greece has condemned the euro-atlantic interventions and the coup in ukraine in 2014 and the unacceptable invasion of russia and is fighting against the growing greek involvement of the new democracy coalition government with the support of the nato-linked left of syriza, the transformation of the country into an american-eastern stronghold and target of retaliation. the peoples must strengthen their independent struggle to free themselves from the imperialist plans, for their own interests, for their own power.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when i came to this house this morning i expected to find a chamber full of meps, to hear speeches all aimed at reaffirming the position which the european parliament has always held: the european parliament has a duty to defend ukraine and to condemn the russian invasion. i am sorry to see that so many colleagues have chosen not to take part in this debate - the chamber is sadly half empty - and i am sorry to see that some colleagues have preferred political polemics to reflection on what a year of war means. forza italia has always expressed its condemnation of the invasion of ukraine in every vote and every act. there is not a single act in this european parliament which is different. i am sorry to note that some of my socialist colleagues, instead of using the time they were given to speak about the invasion of ukraine, used it to attack italy and to attack a political leader like silvio berlusconi. they made a mistake, and i hope they understand that.
mr. chairman, please! the year of putin's invasion of ukraine was a year of great tragedy and even greater sorrow. millions of people have fled their country, and thousands have been killed, brutally killed, like the 14-year-old boy and his dog murdered while walking in bachmut two weeks ago. this picture was sent to me by a photographer from silesia who's documenting the russian crime scene. vladimir klitschko, who was one of the guests of my panel in brussels, said that this is a war of civilizations, that russia treats ukraine as something worse and therefore wants the total elimination of the language, history, culture and society. we want peace. i call myself a pacifist, but it's hard to be one when there's an unjustified war going on right next to our borders. the only peace we can accept in this parliament is a victory for ukraine over russia and more arms for ukraine. now, before it's too late, long live a free, sovereign and european ukraine.
in writing. i warn you against self-deception. the draft resolution calls for the union to be a centre of research, development and innovation. the reality, however, is that the corporate and technology gap has been growing for 20 years, compared to the us and china. in 2010, 31 european companies were among the world's 100 largest companies, compared with 14 last year. energy prices are skyrocketing in our country, and america is attracting investors with paradise conditions. if our big companies move overseas, european smes will have nowhere to go. the commission proposal is too late and does not offer an effective solution. competition for subsidies between member states would distort the internal market, which has already benefited the big players. the commission mentions a sovereign fund, i think, again, just a loan, instead of quickly approving the projects of the member states and paying the money due to them. unfortunately, only 28% of the recovery funds have been spent so far. the left also wants to trade on ideological grounds. it's the best way to cut our companies off from markets and raw materials. without access to new markets, thousands of european jobs are at risk. let's get back to common sense. free trade and increased competitiveness are the only ways to put europe back on the map.
written. it is an undeniable fact that we are living in very difficult times of pandemics, inflation and war. with the industrial plan in the european green deal, we are gradually building a stronger europe and a balanced economy. however, the rights of the most vulnerable group, which is also one of the foundations of our industry, the working class, are being ignored. we must respect it if we are to continue to prosper. any company that receives financial support should ensure decent wages and union rights for workers. educating the working class should be one of our priorities because it's what makes a skilled workforce possible. the commission should also be able to use the existing mechanisms to support the development of the industry in a targeted and efficient manner. building competitiveness on subsidies may be a short-term solution, but not a long-term one. therefore, we need to accelerate the green transition for the benefit of our industry and competitiveness. moreover, europe needs more private and public investment. we cannot afford not to respond to the protectionist policies of the united states and we cannot leave our companies in the lurch. finally, we must not allow the fragmentation of the european single market, which, thanks to its success, is a model for many other countries.
in writing. the green deal industrial plan is not only the eu's response to the profound changes in the energy sector, resulting from the carbon emissions reduction efforts and the war in ukraine and the accelerated energy transition in russia, but also takes into account the existence of other national initiatives in the area of climate change and energy promotion, such as the us inflation reduction act worth €330 billion or the japanese planned green transition worth around €140 billion. the commission's communication contains elements which i consider essential to ensure greater security in the european union. it addresses, inter alia, the need to strengthen supply chains and the need to diversify the sources of supply of critical raw materials, which are crucial in the semiconductor sector. on the other hand, in order to achieve the objectives in the areas planned in the current wartime reality, the union economy is supported by public aid. since the public aid notified so far by germany and france and approved by the european union (under the temporary crisis framework) amounts to 77% of the total aid accepted by the commission, i call for more balanced action in this area, so as to ensure a level playing field for all member states and that the concentration of aid to two countries does not exacerbate existing disparities with respect to the rest of the countries.
in writing. it is clear that urgent action is needed to improve the eu's competitiveness. we must have the courage to invest in europe and our industry must be renewed. the united states' inflation reduction legislation must be responded to, but we must not fall into protectionism. the new industrial green development plan presented by the eu commission on 1 february in response to the us package contains some steps in the right direction, but the overall picture leaves much to be desired. it is good that the objectives of the plan include simplification of regulation. the plan rightly notes that slow permitting processes are often a bottleneck for investment. one concrete good proposal is to streamline the permitting processes for important ipcei projects of common european interest. i also think it is important that the plan respects the principles of fair competition and open trade. europe must continue to be the champion of free trade, because only through broad partnerships and free trade agreements will we be able to compete in a global market. it is equally important to put critical raw materials at the heart of industrial policy, without which we cannot compete and achieve the green and digital transition. unfortunately, however, the package fails to make any tangible progress towards its objective of boosting investment, as it includes too many market-distorting measures. i am critical of the proposal to relax the state aid rules, because it breaks the internal market and benefits mainly the large industrial players in the large member states, not the union as a whole. of particular concern is the new sovereign wealth fund, which is planned on the side of the package. there is no justification for this, especially as there is still a lot of money left over from the coronavirus relief package.
the green deal's industrial plan for the zero impact era sets out a set of urgent measures which must innovate in content and method to meet the challenge. as a package to ensure strategic autonomy in the european union and to avoid individual protectionism, it will only succeed if all member states are mobilised in a collaborative manner without jeopardising internal dynamics of convergence and cohesion. it must focus on agendas and options for industrial leadership of the energy transition and the associated digital transition, which take advantage of knowledge networks and productive capacity networks in the union space. this requires not only flexibility in the allocation of available financial resources but also an injection of fresh money with an integrating and aggregating logic. this should be the key role of the sovereignty fund, which should, as far as possible, be financed from the union's own resources. in addition to increasing and mobilising knowledge, productive capacity and funding at multiple levels, the plan must also integrate social responses and benefits for people, demonstrating the european union's ability to work together to improve the daily lives of its citizens.
the minutes of yesterday’s sitting and the texts adopted are available. are there any comments? i see no comments in the room so the minutes are approved.
the next item is the topical debate under rule 162 on ‘the erosion of the rule of law in greece: the wiretapping scandal and media freedom’. i should like to inform members that for this debate there is no catch-the-eye procedure and no blue cards will be accepted.
i'm the editor. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that has been the party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. in recent years, the institutions have suffered serious setbacks. but the answer to this slip-up cannot be the trade-offs between this government and the previous one. the greek people deserve much more than a continuing downward spiral. i am here not only as a colleague and victim of a flagrant violation of human rights, but also as the president of a group which has created independent authorities in greece and has fought for democracy, transparency and social justice throughout the years. but what have we learned in the last six months since the european parliament's services uncovered the attempt to trap the mobile phone with the predator? a small group in the maximus palace, led by the prime minister's nephew, using the nsa as a tool, was monitoring, on the pretext of national security, not only me, but also journalists, meps, even the acting minister, and senior members of the armed forces. after the revelation, they were publicly saying that they were trying to bring it all to light, but all we saw was darkness and an attempt to blame the victims. they undermined the work of the inquiry committee in the greek parliament by excluding the call of critical witnesses and by imposing secrecy. mr. mitsotakis has twice changed the law to prevent the lawful briefing of targets. government officials even proceeded to the heinous character assassination of the head of the competent independent authority, mr christos rammou, because he continued the investigations. of course, some years ago, when as a judge he defended the freedom of the press against the arbitrariness of the previous government, he was good for new democracy and bad for syriza. but when you walk without principles and values, it quickly becomes clear that you don't want to face the monster, but to imitate it. the press, unfortunately, is increasingly subject to the authority of the day rather than to control. even the request that i have announced and submitted since the fall together with authoritative constitutional scholars to determine whether the greek government, when it was monitoring me in 2021, violated national and european rules on my immunity, is today being slandered. it is presented by the interlocking media as an attempt to protect myself from an alleged scandal involving third countries. no matter how hard they try, with science fiction scenarios reminiscent of qanon and trump, to bend my resolve, rest assured they will accomplish nothing. from the beginning of this case, i took all the institutional initiatives, using every opportunity that greek and european justice gives me, because we have a duty above all to put a stop to the forces that have led our country into economic deviation, putting the greek people in a ten-year painful adventure. and now, with their practices, the same forces are leading the country into an institutional deviation. the greek judiciary has a duty to reveal the protagonists and those who attempted to cover up the crime, while insulting the constitution and the intelligence of the greek people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the biggest of these is addiction and the compromise of citizens with the idea that they are defenseless against the malicious use of technology. that they're at the mercy of any government or private agency that has the potential to violate the confidentiality of communications and personal data. that it is utopian to demand respect for the constitution, the laws and the personality of the people. we have left the field open to the invasion of fake news and the terrors of the internet. the european union must take a decisive and institutional step to prevent the rule of law from being completely degraded. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you for inviting us to take part in this debate. the swedish presidency has set the protection of our common values, such as the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights, as a top political priority for this semester. we believe, like you, that we need to firmly defend those values, especially in the current situation we are facing, with a war raging at europe’s doors. from the outset, i would like to express the full commitment of member states to the principle of protection of privacy as reflected in the charter and in our general data protection regulation, which sets very high standards for the protection of individual freedoms. the eu institutions and the member states have a joint responsibility and a duty to ensure the fulfilment of these standards. member states must investigate adequately and condemn any form of illegal surveillance. however, to prevent violation in the first place, the council is working actively to promote a common rule of law culture amongst member states. for example, the swedish presidency will continue the work carried out by the previous presidency by organising the sixth round of country-specific rule of law dialogues in the council. the situation regarding the rule of law in greece was discussed during the rule of law dialogue in april 2021. among other things, media freedom and the situation for journalists were also discussed. the rule of law dialogues in the council will allow us to complete the first cycle of this constructive dialogue. we believe, in fact, that this mechanism bears fruit. in addition, we will advance the ongoing article 7 procedures concerning hungary and poland in the general affairs council. during these discussions, media freedom features as a key enabler of the rule of law. it is an indispensable pillar of our democratic societies. it is also, as you know, a key element of the commission's rule of law report, which feeds into our debates. i also wish to underline that the council remains committed to advanced work on the key legislative proposals currently on the table, namely the proposed media freedom act and strategic lawsuit against public participation directive. media freedom, as well as the protect protection of journalists, must be guaranteed at all times across the union. each member states has a duty to ensure that any form of illegal surveillance, including on journalists, is investigated adequately and condemned. in the current geopolitical situation where autocratic regimes try to suppress independent information and media pluralism, we must defend our democracy model and our fundamental values. this includes the effective exercise of the freedom of expression and information. we will continue to work for those rights to thrive in the union.
member of the commission. – mr president, minister roswall, colleagues, i represent commissioner reynders here in this debate and he expresses his regret that he could not, unfortunately, join us. i want to say at the very outset that the commission is monitoring developments concerning the rule of law in greece in the context of its annual rule of law report, as it does for all member states. we adopted the third edition of this report in july last. it included – for the first time – country-specific recommendations to all the member states. and let me outline the recommendations made to greece, as well as other relevant developments concerning this member state. first, as regards the justice system, a recommendation to greece in the 2022 rule of law report concerns the need for involvement of the judiciary in the appointment of the president and vice-president of the council of state, the supreme court and the court of auditors, taking into account european standards on judicial appointments. this issue has been raised already in the first and second rule of law reports, as well as by greco. the report also notes that greece has adopted a number of measures aiming to improve the efficiency and the quality of the greek justice system, while several challenges still remain to be addressed – notably as regards the efficiency of justice. while we have seen improvements in the digitalisation of administrative justice, shortcomings still exist as regards the digitalisation of civil justice. the ongoing revision of the judicial map is a positive development, bearing in mind that judges who would be transferred in the course of the reform should benefit from procedural safeguards according to european standards. regarding the anti-corruption framework, the rule of law report reflects that, while the number of asset declarations being filed has increased and all are verified for their completeness, their accuracy is only verified in a limited percentage. in this context, the commission has recommended to greece to ensure the effective and systematic verification of the accuracy of asset disclosures filed by all types of public officials. moreover, in 2021, a limited number of prosecutions related to corruption were taken forward, although progress on final decisions remains to be established. and this is why the commission has also recommended to increase efforts to establish a robust track record of prosecutions and final judgments in corruption cases. let me move now to media freedom and media pluralism. the rule of law report also addressed the situation of journalists in greece, which has raised significant concerns due to the fact that several journalists have faced threats and physical attacks while their professional environment has further deteriorated. the commission issued a specific recommendation to greece on this issue, aiming at establishing legislative and other safeguards to improve the physical safety and working environment of journalists, taking into account european standards on the protection of journalists, including the commission’s recommendation on the safety of journalists, adopted in 2021. the report also noted that the greek government has recently signed a memorandum of understanding on the protection, safety and empowerment of journalists and other media professionals, which contains a common framework of cooperation among the different ministries, including the preparation of proposals for legislative and non-legislative initiatives to ensure the protection of journalists. the commission’s proposal for a european media act, adopted in september last year, contains a number of provisions aimed at enhancing media freedom and protecting journalists, including articles dedicated to surveillance and the use of spyware by public authorities. as regards other institutional issues – the last pillar of the rule of law report – the commission would like to underline that registration requirements for civil society organisations should be proportionate, whatever the field in which they act, in view of maintaining an open framework for them to operate as outlined and, indeed, underlined in one of our recommendations in the report. such legislation continues to raise concerns as regards its impact on the ability of ngos to operate in greece and to receive financial support. as regards the law-making procedures, whilst underlining that work on improving the quality of the legislation process continues, challenges remain, such as a short time frame for public consultation. let me move now to the issue of wiretapping and spyware. let me reiterate that the commission strongly condemns any illegal access to interpersonal communications, either by traditional means or wiretapping or spyware. the eu has a strong legal framework for data protection and privacy, which must be respected. the commission notes that the greek government recently passed a law regarding the rules on wiretapping for purposes of national security and the fight against crime and the use of spyware. as regards the purchase and use of spyware by public authorities, a decree –not yet adopted – has to specify all applicable conditions. the issue of spyware in greece was addressed in the rule of law report. we note that in the last months there were further reports of surveillance, including politicians, journalists and officials of the armed forces. we also understand that various investigations are ongoing. the commission expects that supervisory authorities and the courts will make full use of all their powers to thoroughly examine any such allegations and to restore citizens’ trust. the individuals concerned must be able to exercise their rights to data protection and privacy, and their right to an effective judicial remedy, which presupposes their right to be informed about having been subject to surveillance or wiretapping. this right to be informed can be subject to delays and restrictions provided for by national law, if necessary to avoid jeopardising criminal and national security investigations. the commission received information from the greek authorities on these recent developments and will keep on following the situation closely.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. seriously, colleagues, do you think there is an erosion of the rule of law in greece? we should talk about facts. the case of the wiretaps is pending before the greek courts, which are the only ones with jurisdiction. besides, the government has explicitly stated that it has nothing to do with illegal software, nor has any evidence to the contrary been found. the legal links for security reasons are obviously the sole responsibility of each country. i would point out that, with a new government law, greece is the first country in the european union to institute a ban on the possession, sale and use of malicious software. we haven't seen this happen everywhere. greece has moved up nine places in the 2022 democracy index, according to the economist. it's one of the best performances. and according to the transparency international report, for the third year in a row, greece has shown a significant rise in the corruption perceptions index. it's up 16 places from 2018. freedom of the press in my country is constitutionally guaranteed, and today there are more newspapers and online media outlets than ever before. do you know that there are media outlets that can slander even the government and the prime minister and they have never been bothered? the opposition is relying on the non-governmental organization reporters without borders which ranks greece below and below chad and mongolia, without criteria, without methodology, without scientific basis, while it despises the report on freedom of expression in media pluralist monitor, under the auspices of the council of europe which rates greece above even countries with deep tradition. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. by adopting arbitrary claims and by unfair interventions, especially during the pre-election period, some seek to harm the greek government by supporting the opposition's pre-election campaign. that's the truth.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, a mushrooming political spying scandal touching even some of the colleagues present here. systematic, illegal pushbacks of migrants. the murder of journalist karaivaz still unresolved after two years. the novartis scandal. allegations of mafia infiltration in the police. and today, the fresh, very alarming revelations on team jorge, a hack—for—hire firm in israel, making money out of manipulating elections and claiming to be present also in greece. and on and on and on. it’s a highly alarming picture. and more alarming still is the reflex of secrecy and denial in government circles, instead of transparency and investigation. i salute the brave forces in greece who are determined to investigate, uncover and prosecute crime. they provide the very essence of democracy, public scrutiny, and holding power to account. these people must be allowed to do their work freely, unhampered and safely. instead of getting support, however, they become the target of attacks, harassment and intimidation. hdpa, the data protection authority, investigative journalists, diligent prosecutors. and in this context, i am pleased with the recent exoneration of prosecutor touloupaki. the issues of predator spyware and team jorge must be fully clarified without delay. there should not be the slightest shadow of doubt over the greek elections in spring. the democratic rule of law is severely under threat in greece. it is code orange. this affects democracy in the eu as a whole. yet the commission stubbornly clings to the pretence of compliance myth. your inaction, commission, is a dereliction of duty.finally, colleagues, we are all loyal to our respective political families, and that’s a good thing. but that loyalty shall not take precedence over something bigger: the democratic rule of law. η δουλειά μας δεν είναι να προστατεύουμε το ένα πολιτικό κόμμα ή το άλλο. η δουλειά μας είναι να προστατεύουμε τη δημοκρατία για όλους. όλοι μαζί.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. freedom of the press, independent media, freedom to express opinions publicly, even extreme ones, but in the public discourse, that's the basis of democracy. but i will never stand up for any person who, in the exercise of his office and position, lies to deprive himself of his dignity and good name. you have to be very clear about that. ladies and gentlemen, you should know that we certainly need to look closely at the situation in greece and perhaps other countries where this freedom of speech is or will be violated. i'm afraid i'm also addressing the ppe. donald tusk is suing journalists and editor marcin tulicki of the public broadcaster for preparing the material "our man in warsaw", which, however, shows his then pro-russian policy. it's a very brutal attempt to limit access to knowledge and the independence of the media. also yesterday was the conference of mr. editor tomasz sakiewicz, where one of the stations brutally restricts the freedom of expression of his views and his station, independent media in poland, and this in an election period this cannot be and i protest against this.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after years of blinding no-borders ideology, it seems that europe is finally beginning to open its eyes to the tragic consequences of uncontrolled immigration. the conclusions of the last european council on the operational strategy for the mediterranean presented by the commission show that it is becoming clear that the only possible solution is the one indicated by the brothers of italy and the right wing. a european response to the migration crisis is essential and must have as its guiding principle the defence of our borders through border patrols with external entry filters, effective return systems and strict rules of conduct for ngos. but this response the left, on the very mandate of ngos terrified of losing the huge source of business given to illegal immigration, wants to prevent it at all costs. that is why it has unleashed the institutions it presides over in an operation of boycott of the decrees put in place by the meloni government, which more and more countries and political forces look to as a model to follow. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, madam commissioner, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen of the right, no immigration road map can accommodate the construction of new border walls, and even less with european funds. mr. rangel, president sanchez has not built any wall. you may have a bricklayer's soul, but he doesn't. he opens the doors. history, moreover, has shown us that walls are a failure. to claim a 'fortress europe' again is to show that they have understood nothing. if they really want to put an end to the irregular flows run by the mafia, to human trafficking and smuggling, they must demand more channels of legal migration - which we need - and greater cooperation with the countries of origin and transit, with the appropriate political and financial means, above all remembering that we will only conclude the migration and asylum pact if we achieve a balance between responsibility and solidarity. finally, madam minister, i welcome the efforts of the european contact group on search and rescue and hope that it will be brought into being as soon as possible in a european mechanism which is binding, clear and effective. because, unfortunately, migrants are still dying every day at sea.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i hear mrs roswall from the council and i think she is playing the harp. with all due respect. the patches on immigration have been popping up one after another for eight years and the council is writing conclusions as if it had not been talking to parliament for eight years and as if it had not dropped the migration and asylum package three and a half years ago. the key - the first thing we have to see that is not working - is the dublin regulation. i also hear mrs mcguinness talking about the external borders and her short-term problems and i think she is playing the violin. it is that countries with external borders, with more exposure to large flows of people, cannot cope with a pressure that is already structural it is not a short-term issue. so we are in this parliament waiting for a miracle, understanding the word 'miracle' as the will, really, to come together and get this package through. because the problem of migration is exponential and it's poisoning everything. in 2015 there were good words, but many governments were not sincere. will they be in 2023? otherwise we cannot be fair or effective.
madam president, i would like to thank you. parts of last week's summit feel shameful for our europe. instead of discussing the basic idea of the pact, which is to take joint responsibility for people who are fleeing, it was also about where we should build the fence and who should finance it. is the eu not about tearing down walls between people rather than building new ones? is donald trump the new inspiration for you? building walls is both populist, pointless and a total waste of our tax dollars. the conservatives and the far right say that there should be no money to support people on the run. but to spend millions of euros on a wall, then it seems to be no problem. walls are not only pointless, they are above all an act that does nothing to take a shared responsibility for people on the move and to protect the right to seek asylum. sweden was a driving force in the founding of the pact and now as the presidency we must stand up for the basic idea of the pact. however, the swedish government is dependent on a far-right party, which makes me very worried about where this discussion will end up. i hope i'm wrong and that this is going in the right direction.
madam president, we are at a crucial moment in the discussions and decisions on the new migration and asylum pact, under the triple pressure of the member states, the commission and the right wing in this house. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. reforming the system? we agree that the system is not working and needs to be changed. but how much will it cost to complete this reform? where is the famous balance between solidarity and responsibility? can this balance be achieved mathematically, by marginalizing the impact on human lives on the one hand and on the functioning of the asylum system in the main member states of entry on the other? the debate on the funding of the wall is a diversion, an instrumentalisation - if i may put it that way - because the 21st century should not be the one that echoes the 20th century, which saw the walls destroyed. the walls are a diversion, because they serve to generate other passages and do not have the desired deterrent effect. no walls will solve the problem of the origin of the malfunctions or provide the solutions to be applied.
madam chairman, they say if there's a will, there's a way. but controlling illegal migration will not be made more effective by loud calls or by discriminatory barriers to schengen enlargement, but only by adequate, rapid, solidarity-based and financially secure measures. we cannot achieve the strengthening of the external borders of the european union without strong support for the frontline states. while the european institutions are stuck negotiating a new migration roadmap, in countries like bulgaria, which are the first to face the pressure of migrants, police officers are dying in the line of duty. the strong relaunch we all want in overall migration policy cannot be achieved without additional financial resources. they are necessary both to strengthen the protection infrastructure at the external borders and to improve the return procedures for irregular migrants, as well as the integration of refugees. if we don't want to risk another crisis summer, we shouldn't waste any more time.
madam president! three days ago, aid workers on the polish-belarusian border found the body of a 28-year-old ethiopian woman who had frozen to death. she was lying on the ground, hunched over. next to her, a christian prayer book with pictures of saints. she died in the woods in a country that claims to be christian. at least 34 people died on that border. what do we tell their families? that we let them die because polish border guards wouldn't let them apply for international protection, which they were entitled to? let us not be told that protecting the external borders should be in contradiction with humanitarianism. where in the values that make up the european union is there room for walls, or as the ppe wants, physical infrastructure? in fortress europe, we have a thousand miles of walls. that's 13 times the size of the berlin wall. we're the ones who are causing the migration to increase. we're taking away people's land, we're destroying the environment and poverty in developing countries, we're creating conflict. i think i know what to do about migration, but there's no time for that here. i miss a real debate on migration, an exchange of views and experiences. let's take a look at this empty room.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i listened very carefully to your speech and i must say that when we talk about the euro, it is also in a certain sense, as a currency, an ideological project. inflation in the netherlands was 17% and in poland 18%. poland is not in the eurozone. as far as the banking union is concerned, of course it may be very important to get to that banking union, but how do we reconcile at this moment the two worlds of the southern banks - in greece, in spain, in italy - and the northern banks? there are tremendous differences in how they function. the amount of bad loans in these southern banks is appalling. so we have another problem here. so the market neutrality of the european bank would be the greatest value that everyone should strive for, so that there is no political pressure and no ideological pressure. because, for example, alongside the banking neutrality, we have an ideological project called greening, greening, greening... we don't really know what it is. all of this is incalculable, although it's very valuable from a discussion point of view, because we all want to live in a clean ecological space. but more economic realism is absolutely what we need. and i think the european central bank's post-pandemic response was also weak. during the pandemic, a lot of money was pumped into different countries, and rightly so, to save the economy. but the post-pandemic response has been a little bit too slow, in my opinion, and we should have been able to get money, empty money, that functions in the economic or economic market, more quickly. in short, this reaction today that we're going to raise interest rates is a very good move, and we're going to support that reaction. we would simply like to live in a european union that is very competitive with the united states and china, and that simply requires economic eurorealism.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 16 february 2023. (the sitting was suspended.)
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the council and the commission on access to critical raw materials of strategic importance (2023/2531 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the european commission has recently proposed a plan for the development of industry on our continent in the context of the green deal. it is an important document designed to increase the competitiveness of european industry and at the same time to accelerate the deployment of clean technologies. in order for these two things to happen, namely the competitiveness of european industry and the deployment of clean technologies, it is fundamental that european industry is provided with adequate quantities of critical raw materials, including rare earth metals. we need them in the energy sector, the automotive sector, the defense sector, the information technology sector, and so on. the union is, however, heavily dependent on supplies of lithium, cobalt, magnesium and other rare metals from countries such as china, burma, vietnam and the congo, which not only degrade the environment by not applying the standards we respect and which we apply, but are also far from creating labour rights and protecting human rights. the increase in demand for critical raw materials has caused a spike in prices. for example, the tonne of lithium needed to make car batteries in my country of poland went up by 1500% between 2020 and 2022. in pursuing our climate goals, we cannot allow a repeat of the situation where the union became dependent on russian gas supplies. the consequences of this misguided policy are being felt very painfully throughout europe. i therefore share the commissioner's view, as the representative of the european council, that this debate is very important and that rare earths are very important in achieving europe's economic objectives.
madam president, commissioner, minister, i have to ask you to stop this. i don't need to repeat what's been obvious for a long time. the rapid and chaotic energy and climate transition is having a negative impact on our economy. the challenge of these times of crisis is to protect our domestic production by all means available and to create a level playing field for european companies. i am referring here to coking coal, which is of great importance for steel production, and the by-products of this process are essential for renewable energy. i ask the commission to keep coke coal on the list of critical raw materials. polish production of this raw material is becoming very important in our part of the world. that should be clear to anyone with any understanding of the geopolitical situation. and now some numbers: of the 13 million tonnes of coking coal produced in europe in 2020, 12 million were mined in poland. in general, we have a structural shortage of coking coal in the european union. almost all eu production is consumed within the union. i'll tell you what, all of europe needs polish coke.
author. madam president, being in the opposition in equatorial guinea is a high-risk activity, even for those who, like julio obama, lived in other countries. julio was kidnapped in 2019 in south sudan, along with three other opponents of obiang's dictatorial regime. they were kidnapped, tortured and wrongfully convicted. this, which looks like a script for a film, is a systematic plan of kidnapping, torture, detention and execution of opponents by the obiang regime, a regime which has been repressing its people for over 44 years, but which also, we must not forget, favours the interests of european companies which plunder guinea's natural resources. that is precisely why the kidnapping and torture of two spanish citizens and two other residents has so far been dealt with by the so-called diplomacy of silence, which serves only the interests of dictatorships. this is no time for silence. we must condemn the murder of julio, demand the immediate release of feliciano, martín and bienvenido, the three arbitrarily detained oppositionists, denounce all the atrocities committed by the obiang dictatorship, seize the assets of the family in european countries, starting with spain, and make political and commercial relations with equatorial guinea conditional on respect for human rights. the guinean people deserve to live in peace and we should send a clear message from here.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, many dissidents and opponents have been imprisoned, tortured, killed or disappeared in equatorial guinea. many thousands of guineans have also been forced into exile. but it is not just political opponents who are suffering repression, but also judges, journalists, police and citizens in general, for the simple fact of expressing their opinions. among those persecuted and reprised was julio obama, a spanish and therefore european citizen, who was kidnapped, imprisoned without a fair trial and subjected to brutal torture in equatorial guinea prisons until his death. the cause of his death must be immediately clarified and those responsible punished. it is absolutely necessary to put an end to all human rights violations in equatorial guinea. the european institutions have an obligation to contribute to this. the european union and the member states must once and for all consider that in international relations it is not interests that should prevail but values.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, in the last few months on the occasion of general elections, the european union stressed that the citizens of equatorial guinea should have the right to participate in an open, free and peaceful electoral process and to exercise their freedom of expression, peaceful assembly and association in full compliance with international human rights law. today we need to recall this same appeal and to continue to urge the authorities of equatorial guinea to ensure democratic governance to the benefit of all its citizens, including by allowing political parties to operate freely and without fear of repression or reprisals. the european union therefore calls on authorities to undertake a thorough investigation of all the allegations of abuse and irregularities that have been made in recent months and to do so with utmost urgency. the european union has been in contact with the spanish authorities who have followed the case of mr julio obama mefuman, a dual spanish and equatorial guinea citizen, and that of the others arrested and detained together with him. spain had limited consular access to mr obama during his detention and while he was in hospital. mr obama mefuman died in hospital in january and the european union extends its condolences to his loved ones. the eu is not in possession of the full details of mr obama mefuman’s case. an inquiry on the circumstances surrounding his arrest and imprisonment is under way in spain. the european union is gravely concerned by the serious human rights situation in equatorial guinea, including with regard to prison conditions and the ill treatment of and violence against the detainees. the european union urges authorities to address these and other serious human rights challenges they face and is ready to assist equatorial guinea in this endeavour.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. russia's adventure with democracy was short-lived. it ended with fsb-initiated explosions in apartment buildings that were used by putin to start the second chechen war. later, the new ruler of russia proceeded to eliminate all genuine opposition. they were bribed, killed, put in camps and prisons. today, most of the independent politicians, activists and journalists who have not left russia are behind bars. the intensification of political repression was an element in the preparation of the aggression against ukraine. any protests against the war were brutally suppressed. political prisoners, including alexei navalny, are being treated in a cruel and unlawful manner. they're tortured, denied medical care, access to families and lawyers. we want to send a message through our resolution that we remember them and strongly condemn the actions of the russian authorities. we demand the release of political prisoners and a change in the way they are treated. persons responsible for persecution in the police, prosecution, judiciary and prison services should be subject to union sanctions. at the same time, we should support all those involved in the activation of civil society in russia and abroad. only russians can change russia. those who want a democratic and law-abiding russia, a russia without imperial ambitions, should be able to count on our support.
in writing. sustainable transport, and in particular cycling, is becoming a permanent part of the european landscape. cycling is increasingly becoming a fast and green alternative, especially in crowded cities, thus contributing to improving overall health, reducing congestion on the roads and improving air quality. however, cycling is still a threat because of the lack of adaptation of road infrastructure to current needs. a clear guideline in the form of a european bicycle strategy would allow for coexistence with other means of transport and thus improve overall road safety and increase the number of bicycles on the roads. the strategy should also give local authorities the possibility to benefit from the european regional development funds and the cohesion funds so that infrastructure encourages europeans to use sustainable means of transport, thereby contributing to the development of the indigenous cycling industry. the union strategy should strengthen the bicycle alongside other means of transport in order to free up financial resources and fiscal support that the industry so badly needs. given the tremendous growth of the sector, which already includes over 1000 smes and 1 million jobs, it is expected to double in size by 2030. therefore, in addition to the safety of cyclists, we should ensure that as much of the production of bicycles and their components as possible takes place in europe.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. andrei pochobut is a hero. andrzej poczobut is a man of integrity, a journalist who, despite years of persecution by the lukashenka regime, has not abandoned the principles of pluralism, truth, freedom and respect for human beings. for us, poles, europeans, andrzej poczobut is a long-standing symbol of the struggle for the rights of poles in belarus, persecuted for many years by the regime. freedom for the pochobut is a fight for the future of europe. it is therefore important that the political and economic pressure of the european union on the lukashenka and putin regimes is unyielding. sanctions and other retaliatory measures, such as the recent closure of the border crossing in bobrovnik and the possible exclusion of belarusian athletes from all major sporting events, should be steadily strengthened to deal a painful blow to these regimes. i believe that andrzej will be a hero, but also a builder of a new free belarus, where the rights of national minorities will be respected and respected. - howdy, whitey!
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. farmers in poland expect fertilizer prices to stabilise. the price fluctuations of the means of production destabilize the markets. the government of the republic of poland supports the european commission and parliament's efforts to ensure food security. the measures set out in the commission communication on ensuring the availability and affordability of fertilisers should be effectively implemented. in my view, it is important that the commission mobilise the agricultural reserve in 2023 to support farmers for emergency market regulation measures and accept the polish government's proposals without delay. i believe that the production potential of the union fertiliser industry can fully meet the needs of agriculture in the european union. it is also necessary to maintain the protection of the european fertiliser market against dumping from third countries, in particular russia.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the european union has a vibrant, diverse and innovative fertiliser sector. we also have great potential for organic and organo-mineral fertilisers. therefore, self-sufficiency should be a central element of the union fertiliser policy. not dependence on imports, but security of supply guaranteed by robust production in the european union. this self-sufficiency is threatened by the increasing imports of nitrogen fertilisers, including from russia, on the one hand, and by restrictive regulations that make it very difficult for european producers to decarbonise existing installations, on the other. this is not something to be trivialised. our manufacturers already produce over 16 million tons of ammonia. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources and does not distort competition and affects trade between member states. the european commission should urgently prepare a feasible plan to facilitate the decarbonisation of ammonia production in the union. we are aware of the experience of the pandemic and the war, and we are building our own, consistent, long-term strategy to ensure the food sovereignty of europeans based on fertilisers produced in europe, including in poland.
madam president, commissioner, let me first of all thank the president of the commission, mr lins, for this very important debate, which speaks of the difficulties faced by farmers all over europe since the outbreak of the war in ukraine and the explosion in the price of fertilisers. commissioner, on the island of réunion, since the start of the war, the price of fertilisers has doubled from 700 to 1 500 euros per tonne. and in this year of terrible drought, which is reducing the incomes of the planters and especially those of the sugar cane planters, this increase is eating everyone. to date, i believe that no specific compensatory measure has been proposed by the european commission to take account of the insularity and remoteness of the outermost regions from the european continent and, commissioner, i can tell you that small farmers in the outermost regions feel neglected. we therefore now expect you to take measures, based on article 349 of the treaty, to help farmers in the outermost regions, and in particular sugar cane growers.
ladies and gentlemen, fertilisers play an important role in food production and hence in our food security. the shortage and record high prices of nitrogen fertilisers, caused by russia's war in ukraine and the subsequent energy crisis, have left farmers facing a dilemma whether to plan the next planting or to stop their business altogether. because of the high prices of fertilizer and fuel, the price of their final production doesn't even cover the production costs. the situation of farmers in member states close to the war in ukraine is particularly sensitive. i will give an example of my country, bulgaria, where farmers are under double pressure. on the one hand, the sector suffers from a strong dependence on imports of nitrogen fertilisers from russia and ukraine, and on the other hand, the facilitated trade flows of ukrainian grain leave eastern european farmers unable to sell their production and it stays in warehouses. we must not allow europe's energy dependence on russia to be replaced by a dependence on fertilisers and food. rapid and targeted action is needed to alleviate the difficulties faced by farmers and fertiliser producers in the european union and to ensure europe's strategic autonomy in fertilisers and food. the european parliament's resolution therefore calls for the development of a long-term european union strategy for fertilisers and for urgent financial support for farmers.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i would like to ask you what you think of the action of the presidents of the 40 major cities of the european union, including berlin, london, warsaw. these presidents are proposing very serious restrictions on the consumption of meat and dairy. these are very drastic proposals. do you think that this proposal by the leading politicians of the 40 largest european cities will be good for farmers? because today we all worry about farmers having to pay a lot for fertilizer. what if their idea is realized? what's your opinion?
madam president, the cost of agricultural inputs has become a real headache. the volatility of fertiliser prices is no longer the seasonal fluctuations we are used to. farmers work for the long term, so predictability has become a necessity for them. i shall mention only three of the political priorities, the three most important. first, to aim for a lasting reduction in gas prices. secondly, to overcome short-term supply constraints and to provide for reserve stocks large enough to offset sporadic or even sustained increases in input prices, particularly for fertilisers. thirdly, to help to spread less demanding crop practices in terms of fertiliser use.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. for years, western european countries have been dependent not only on natural gas but also on cheap fertilizer from russia. while poland talked about the risks of new business deals with moscow, european politicians, along with russian oligarchs, opened up new nord stream lines. many believed the illusion that their colleagues in moscow were selling - the illusion of cheap gas and cheap fertilizer, cheap raw materials and cheap fertilizer. today, there's nothing left of it. and for this cheap gas, ukraine is paying with its blood today. of course, there are countries that would love to get back into this business. therefore, fertilisers, among others, have been excluded from the subsequent sanctions packages. it is another that the fertiliser market in the union has long been destroyed by regulations adopted by parliament. the socialists and the greens, in a race to be more environmentally friendly, have destroyed the market for cheap phosphorite, which promotes products from russian deposits, among others. of course, this has led to higher prices. today, those same people are screaming about expensive and unavailable fertilizer. i say, stop this hypocrisy.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the energy crisis, which was felt before the war, which is the result of the absolute financial pyramid that is the ets, after the war, caused the economies of the member states, but the economy, also managed, in a sense, by the european union, went into manual control. today, the farmer needs our help, because he has to implement recommendations, plans, programmes. he has a lot to learn, and he's struggling with the day-to-day, and he's thinking about the future. i'm glad that decisions like this are made in my country, that the state helps and pays for fertilizer, among other things. i guess that should be the norm. the question therefore, commissioner, is how, as soon as possible, now, in a month or two, to help farmers to feel that they are being looked after, but also to feel that they can serve their communities by taking care of food security.
madam president! thank you, norbert linz, for asking this question, so that we can talk today about the importance of fertilisers and at the same time be able to say with confidence that the war in ukraine has exposed the fact that we in europe have not paid enough attention to all three basic security areas: on the one hand, military security, food security and energy security. the high gas price, which was largely related to the war, increased the production of mineral fertilizers. in the meantime, there have been unjustified profits for those who manipulate it, as these higher prices bring with them food prices, inflation and, sadly, poverty for many europeans. it is therefore essential to ensure that europe's energy supply is strengthened, that we have a stable market here, and also that we take care of the european mineral fertiliser industry and that europe becomes strategically autonomous here too and that we have production on our own soil. of course, other measures are also urgently needed: a uniform application of organic mineral fertilisers to livestock farming throughout europe, which will also provide sufficient organic mineral fertilisers for soil fertility; on the other hand, a rotary farm in which we will use more butterflies, more legumes, while at the same time solving the problem of the lack of protein in feed and the nitrogen fixation from the air. precision farming techniques are important, new breeding techniques that also produce better results. of course, we will also need additional funds for all this, so let us be aware of this when we look at the financial perspective and allocate more funds to agriculture.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the situation of farmers is deteriorating day by day. the answers you have given, commissioner, to the questions put, do not encourage the farmers. and i'll explain why. and you know this. the commission itself has shown the dramatic increase in gas prices. the commission itself points out that we do not have a capacity now to cover the fertiliser needs of the entire fertiliser range. what should farmers do? what should the farmers in my country, romania, commissioner, do if we cannot tell them why the subsidy is different? we do not have two europe, we have one europe. romania has very good soil for agriculture, but if the conditions of use of this soil are not at the level of other countries, obviously the farmers cannot use it. and i think food security, in addition to security, needs to be put first. i ask you directly, commissioner: the measures - you said you had no other measures - are you going to rethink the cap in the middle of the financial framework with a larger budget? do you find alternative funding solutions? because with that 50 euros a farmer can do nothing and we risk leaving the land uncultivated.
madam president, commissioner, you are all aware that the increase in the variable cost of production has reached 90% for nitrogen fertilisers. this, as you all know, has resulted in the price of produce for our farmers in the european union, to have a 149% increase last september, september 2022, compared to september 2021. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. it is therefore a common recognition in this chamber that there is more need than ever to take measures to maintain a sustainable european fertiliser production, to optimise the use and to reduce the dependence on mineral fertilisers. the commission's directives, commissioner, are in the right direction. we need more organic fertilizer. we need to replace the mineral fertilizer. we need to transition to green fertilisers and, for that, we need to support investment in clean hydrogen and biomethane for ammonia production. but at the same time, we must recognize the reality. farmers, because of the cost, have greatly reduced the yield of their land. and lower agricultural yields mean less food, which is why there is a very strong need, firstly, for member states to review their national strategic plans for the common agricultural policy and to fill gaps, to provide incentives for the replacement and supplementation of mineral fertilisers with nutrients from organic sources and to accelerate appropriate fertilisation measures in order to increase soil fertility. however, it is also necessary for the commission to investigate the possibility of using the agricultural reserve for the financial year 2023 to provide direct assistance to farmers due to the exponential increase in fertilisers.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. in a time of rampant overpricing, inflation, and fertilizer prices at their highest in history, poland's education minister czarnecki is giving away villas to foundations that are linked to the power camp. why am i saying this? firstly, because it is simply indecent, and secondly, because in this difficult situation we need a stronger union, more international cooperation, contrary to what your political circles say and what state propaganda does. the pandemic has shown us that. sharing vaccine purchases was a sure thing. i would therefore like to ask the commissioner whether the commission is planning to buy fertilisers together for the union so that we can buy more together at a lower price. and will there be subsidies for farmers? the higher price of bread must be paid by the putin and lukashenka regimes, not by the inhabitants of europe. and i just want to remind you that poland has its own commissioner, janusz wojciechowski. and every time ziobro or tvp attack the european commission, they attack poland. i'm not jealous, chief.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. last year, europe had to deal with an energy crisis caused by russia. the shortage of gas in the market, the high price of gas, has translated into the price of electricity, which we all felt. what's less talked about is that it's also translated into fertilizer prices. the majority of fertilisers are produced using ammonia from natural gas. farmers have felt the crisis in two ways: in the form of energy prices and in the form of fertilizer prices. let's not kid ourselves, this is a situation that threatens not just farmers, but our food security. we can't solve this problem by acting on it. we should separate fertilizer production from natural gas as soon as possible. we have to rely on green sources, like ammonia from biogas or hydrogen from electrolysis. but to do that, we need green hydrogen production rules that our producers can meet. legislation is needed to at least temporarily address the restrictive requirements imposed today by the renewable energy directive. we cannot afford to be dependent on imported ammonia and fertilisers today. we cannot afford to limit the ability of farmers to produce food. europe must find a solution that guarantees the survival of the fertiliser sector, decent conditions for farmers and food security for all of us.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. ensuring food security is one of the fundamental objectives of our union. the yield of the fields is inextricably linked to the availability of crop aids such as nitrogen fertilisers or phosphorus. their prices have reached exorbitant levels since the outbreak of the war in ukraine and the rise in gas prices, causing legitimate concern among farmers and ordinary consumers. this has shown how reckless reliance on external producers, including russia and belarus, which supplied 60% of the eu's fertilisers, and a lack of innovation can easily pose a real threat to food security in europe. higher fertilizer prices, or lack thereof, mean higher food prices and lower crop yields. i look forward to the commission and council's actions in the field to table strategy and the new agricultural policy. however, achieving the targets for biofuel production and self-sufficiency requires precise support programmes. it is not enough for the union to define what it needs. we need to show farmers how to achieve this and that should be the focus of our action.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. special thanks for taking the initiative. this is encouraging, because today there is a particular need to promote the idea of volunteering and projects that give space for self-development, to build on the principle of subsidiarity. i hope that this raises concerns in relation to the main question that arises, which also arose here, namely how the commission intends to protect and promote voluntary involvement of volunteers without, however, calling into question directive 2003/88/ec. i hope that the commission will find a solution which will guarantee citizens full freedom to pursue their careers in helping others without prejudice to their professional situation.
the next item is the report by mr ciarán cuffe, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the energy performance of buildings (recast) (com (2021) 0802 - c9-0469/2021 - 2021/0426 (cod)) (a9-0033/2023).
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. you are the leader of this project and i know you are well aware of the problem, but my question is this: according to the eu documents, we will have zero gdp in the european union by 2023. tell me, where will companies, where will people get the money for these expenses, when they have the main concern (companies, people and households) to just survive? show the funding for this project to the average kowalski in the european union. because we have to explain this project somehow, because the principle that you have to heat and you have to save, that's okay, but where will the money come from?
madam president! well, you've been telling everyone for years that you should go with gas, and it'll be cheaper, greener and safer. what's the matter? it's less environmentally friendly, more expensive, and less safe. and then instead of drawing conclusions, you show off your ideological shoe. and so now, from 2027, everyone in the european union is going to pay an ets tax on buildings, which is an artificial ideological tax, and the cost of buying and maintaining a house will go up. and your ideological nonsense will be paid for by the poorest of the poor who can't afford super-modern real estate, like the poles, who of course would live at your level if the germans paid us war reparations. and so today you want to ban fossil fuel boilers for new homes by 2028, and then for everyone, including gas stoves, which you just ordered to be installed as green because there was nord stream and germany made a lot of money on it. the poles have already installed over a million of these furnaces and now they're going to switch to heat pumps because you just lost the gas in nord stream. the cost of installing a heat pump is more than the annual earnings of most poles. plus, the climate here is different, and we'll pay a lot more than you, plus, of course, the bureaucratic costs of these certificates. this is crazy, this is crazy what you're doing. this is crazy.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 14 march 2023. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the objectives of the energy performance of buildings directive (epbd), such as: achieving highly energy efficient and decarbonised building resources by 2050; creating a stable investment environment; enabling consumers and businesses to make energy and financial savings decisions, are of course necessary and can have a positive impact on citizens, especially in today's context of inflation, energy crises and energy price fluctuations, but the directive does not create any new funds and improving energy performance comes at a cost. renovations often require a large upfront investment. the itre text imposes new requirements and increases the ambition compared to the commission proposal in such a way that they become unattainable and very costly for both member states and consumers. the commission will also assess the impact of the new rules on the environment and the environment protection of buildings and the environment protection of the environment. the new definition of zero-emission buildings says that only buildings powered by renewable energy will be given this title, which excludes gas-based district heating networks, even those that are highly efficient according to the definition of efficiency in the eed.
in writing. the report amending the energy performance of buildings directive is another example of socially harmful policies dictated by the ideological fixation of the left-liberal elites in europe. by living in isolation from everyday reality, these elites set unrealistic goals for citizens, the cost of which will be even greater given the dramatic economic situation in europe. the parliament's position is to ban the use of fossil fuel boilers in new buildings and buildings undergoing major renovation, with the exception of hybrid systems. this item does not take into account differences in the level of development and economic structure of the member states. the economic possibilities of citizens to adapt to the imposed technical changes have been completely ignored. unfortunately, even the energy crisis that has returned, exacerbated in large part by the ongoing russian aggression in ukraine, has not brought any relief. instead of strengthening domestic industry, including heavy industry, instead of pushing for legislation that will allow europe to compete with asian economies, the european left, under the label of environmentalists, is condemning us all to failure.
the next item on the agenda is the annual report by anne-sophie pelletier on behalf of the committee on petitions on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2021 (2022/2141 (ini)) (a9-0054/2023).
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. fellow workers! it was intense work, it was friendly, and i think we respected each other, even though we disagreed a lot. and now maybe without the bloat, the truth embedded in reality. i remind you of the second article of the climate law, it was a difficult compromise to reach, an article that says that we are in solidarity at the level of the european union, that we take into account the absorbers not only natural, because we knew that nature can not cope. what happened to those files? well, it's the law, and that article just doesn't work. first of all, lulucf is unfair. i think i have pointed out here on many occasions to the sympathetic rapporteur, mr finn, that i do not understand why they, who are so rich in forests, have to absorb 7 million tonnes and poland 38 million tonnes? i never got an answer. tell me, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, will you reach your goal? then you can borrow, you can trade. secondly, this document is based on absolutely unrealistic data, because it's data from 2016 to 2018. the world of the forest is a completely different place. and also, i'll remind you, it's about punishment, which means if you don't get the result, you're going to have to increase your effort by a few percent. and finally, there is no money to help the member countries when the storm comes, when the fire comes. as for the joint reduction effort, derisively called at the moment the one concerning the economy and those elements of nature that are not covered by the ets. yes, they are. it's about transportation, it's about housing and houses. we punish double for those who drive cars, or heat or cool their own homes. it completely ignores this war document, including migration. there are several million ukrainian citizens in poland who have an impact on how the reduction effort is calculated and achieved. finally, the reserve. well, this is a masterpiece. war, pandemic, skyrocketing energy prices, the ets, which is already at 100 euros, and we're talking about doubling that reserve. how much do you want to achieve to satisfy mr. frans timmermans? two hundred or three hundred euros? ask the europeans, so it doesn't end up like the regulation... (the president cut off the speaker)
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. i know you're an expert on the subject and you're a professional in the field of ecology. i appreciate that, but two hours ago, there was a debate on the energy performance of buildings in this room. sir, the romanian mp said that 60% of romanians won't be able to afford climate policy. a dutch mp said that in the netherlands alone, one billion euros is needed for the paperwork to implement a climate policy. and a german mp said that 40 billion was pumped into the heating of buildings in germany and it's not working. you're from slovakia? are you not concerned that the poor people simply cannot sustain the pace of change that you are proposing?
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 14 march.
the next item is a short presentation of the report by janina ochojska on policy coherence for development [2021/2164(ini)] (a9-0019/2023).
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. dear colleagues! policy coherence for the development of the cfp is to minimise contradictions and create synergies between the different policy areas in a way that ensures their coherence. this means that we must avoid situations in which helping someone is at the same time hurting him in some other way. the cfp is a key pillar of the union's efforts to make development cooperation more effective, although it also constitutes a legal obligation for the eu institutions and the member states. her political visibility has unfortunately diminished over the past few years. the irresponsible practices of some european companies operating in developing countries are a classic example of this lack of coherence. many garment companies use cheap labor, grossly violating workers' rights and often ignoring environmental concerns. similar trends can be observed in the strengthening of border controls and the redirection of funding to so-called security-related activities. this threatens the achievement of development goals such as poverty eradication and human rights, which are lower on the public priority scale. we also know of positive examples of the use of pcd. one of them concerns the cessation of deforestation for agricultural products imported into the union. this means that only coffee or soybeans whose cultivation has not contributed to deforestation can be imported into the european union. the purpose of this report is to assess the results achieved so far in the use of pcds and to make recommendations to the individual european institutions to improve the internal mechanisms for the use of pcds. one of the postulates for improving the coordination of lawmaking in the european parliament is to create a network of cooperation between the development committee and committee members involved in the lawmaking process. such a pcd mainstreaming network would operate on similar principles to the gender mainstreaming network already in place in parliament. we want to be guided by the priority of the cfp in our work for sustainable development. my assessment is that there is a need to re-establish a dedicated pcd team within dg intpa to coordinate the work of the pcd thematic units. moreover, i also believe that the resumption of the publication of the annual report on the accountability of the european union and its member states, the results of the implementation of development policy commitments, which includes the cfp, would be of great importance. the report calls for a new commission communication on the pcd to be issued by 1 july 2024 containing an action plan, a clear methodology and concrete quantitative and qualitative indicators to measure the implementation of the pcd by the european union and the member states. fellow workers! the implementation of policy coherence for development must start with the individual institutions, but we must also ensure that interinstitutional coordination is in place. we can do this by ensuring better information flows between the eu delegations on the ground and by including the pcd in the plans of each presidency. without a pcd, development activities will lose their effectiveness and efficiency.
madam president, mr. president, i have to go. fellow workers! in a month's time, on 16 april, it will be 20 years since the governments of poland and lithuania signed the treaty of accession in athens, which is the legal basis for our countries' accession to the european union. eight other countries joined us, and it was the biggest enlargement in the history of the european union. i had the honour as prime minister of poland to sign the treaty and i am sure that in poland and lithuania the 20th anniversary will be a good occasion for various assessments and balances of our membership. i'm sure, mr. president, that you're very appreciative of these 20 years, as i am, and others, and many poles. it is not just history that is important, but above all the debate on the future of europe, the support of the idea that unites us. this idea is fulfilled in helping ukraine, which is fighting back against russian aggression, but also in respecting european values, the rule of law, social justice, equal rights for women and men, and helping all those who are in need. we can regenerate and build bridges. this is the right path and it must be pursued with a view to the present and future generations, to deepening european integration and to respecting all the values that have brought us together in this chamber. i am convinced that lithuania and all other member states will follow this path consistently.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to request referral back to committee for interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 59(4).
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. the aim of this report is to assess the results achieved so far in the use of pcd and to make recommendations for the individual european institutions. without a pcd, development activities lose their effectiveness and efficiency. i thank all the members who have contributed to this report and look forward to working with you to implement its recommendations.
madam president! i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! the aggressive war that russia is waging against ukraine is obviously affecting what is happening all over europe, it is affecting economic, social conditions and we are all aware that it will continue to affect our situation. we also have to be aware that we have to do everything we can to stop russia, so that ukraine wins. we must therefore also adapt our actions to what is happening in europe at the moment. we must be pragmatic and realistic. i have the impression that sometimes some politicians are satisfied with debates and declarations, whereas here it is obviously a question of action, and therefore we must also adapt our european policy to what is happening beyond our eastern border. and so we must be aware that we have to make rational decisions here and that we must first of all protect european citizens, the european economy, and make it more competitive. for example, today we have introduced projects under the "ready for 55" programme, or all these projects that are related to politics, climate change, they will unfortunately result in europe becoming poorer. so let's be more rational, let's be more pragmatic, because today we all need this.
in writing. the report european semester for economic policy coordination finally identifies the risks. the pandemic, the resource crisis, the war in ukraine, inflation and the need to counter it are indeed a solid bucket of cold water for the dreamers who saw the european economy as doomed to succeed and to play a leading role in the green transition. in a situation where the european economy emerging from the collapse must additionally face the competition challenges posed by, for example, the us law on reducing inflation, the question of a level playing field among member states arises. in times of generous government, those who can afford to go into debt are the winners. and it just so happens that these are mostly northern and more developed countries, whose economic advantage over the rest of the eu is now going to increase even more... i'd like to warn you that the new fund is a new, joint debt. and that the biggest beneficiaries will be the strongest, whose economies are best prepared for the green transition... the current situation is further proof that debt cannot be built up indefinitely and that sound public finances are the best insurance against uncertain times. in this context, it is worth mentioning poland, for example, whose public debt below 60% of gdp contrasts favourably with the european average (89.4% of gdp) or the even higher eurozone average (97.2% of gdp).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. fellow workers! the idea of a minimum income is socially relevant and important, because a minimum income aims to combat poverty, social exclusion by promoting adequate income support, effective access to supporting and basic services, and the integration into the labour market of those who are able to do so. however, these objectives should be pursued without prejudice to the powers of the member states, since social and employment policies are primarily pursued by the member states, which are responsible for identifying needs and matching them to internal capacities. the european union's initiatives must be implemented in accordance with the treaty's division of powers, the principle of subsidiarity and social dialogue. the crucial point for my work is the reference in the text of the resolution to the adequate income directive. so this directive is a crucial vote, and its rejection in the plenary will determine our recommendation for the final vote.
in writing. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the preparation of this comprehensive document. i've been working on social policy since 1995, so it's a subject that's familiar to me. i believe that a life-cycle approach and a wide range of activities should be taken into account when developing support strategies. help may be needed at any stage of life. i am pleased that this idea has been incorporated in the european commission's new strategy for long-term care. i also agree with the resolution's authors that minimum income systems alone are not enough to lift people out of poverty. i believe that we need much broader support systems, including education and training or skills development for reintegration into the labour market for people who can work, or social inclusion achieved through proactive social workers. we need good systems to combine benefits with active employment support. only good and comprehensive systems will achieve the goals set at the porto summit, namely to lift at least 15 million people out of poverty.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. we've already talked about this here, and the international energy agency is warning us to be vigilant about 2023. the point is, there's a gap of 27 billion in gas demand. on the one hand, we have an embargo on russian gas, on the other hand, china can come into play when it comes to lng. and so my question is: do you see, in addition to the energy cuts that are already taking place in european countries, and in addition to the ambitious plans for renewable energy sources, any other actions that can help this year, next year, in the next few years, in terms of energy security? because it's important that we have a coherent system, because there are decisions in the european energy industry, in highly developed countries like germany and beyond, a return to energy based on fossil fuels, with hard coal. and don't you see the danger here that on the one hand we're limiting, we're not keeping up with renewables and the de facto system is becoming inconsistent.
mr. chairman, please! i'm not going to let you get away with this. thank you for that information. in this context, i have a question: will the regulation currently under consideration on the reduction of methane emissions, and in particular the provisions imposing information obligations on producers and importers of natural gas with regard to methane emissions, contribute to discouraging lng producers from entering the european market at such an important time and with such important plans as those mentioned by the commissioner?
mr president, high representative, as chairman of the usa delegation here in the european parliament, i’d just like to express satisfaction that president putin’s criminal invasion of ukraine has brought us as the west together. and i’d like to thank the commission and you personally for your leadership on this, which gives me hope that we will prevail. i therefore have only two suggestions. number one: could we make the trade and technology council – which i think is crucial in denying the autocrats the dual use and aggressive technologies – could we broaden it to include key allies such as australia, japan, south korea and the united kingdom to make it more effective? and secondly, it appears that the us is far more energetic in applying the magnitsky act, which we have also adopted here. russia now has more political prisoners than the soviet union did under brezhnev. but some of those prosecutors, judges and gaolers of people like kara-murza and others still have not been sanctioned and they should be.
we had a meeting here in the european parliament this morning with bill browder, who initiated the magnitsky legislation, and he claims that we have not used this mechanism as much as the united states. so, just take a look at it, please.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european union delegation in tel aviv has assessed the risk of an escalation of violence in the west bank. the hectic period of the upcoming ramadan and the overlapping jewish holidays, along with the harsh rhetoric of radical politicians in the israeli government coalition, including those responsible for various aspects of security, coupled with the sense of impunity of settlers, further increase the risk of further acts of violence. in addition, the palestinian authority has very little control over the situation in the west bank, and there are a large number of small, dispersed and uncontrolled groups, such as hamas and palestinian islamic jihad, which are ready to act. recently, there have been many abuses by settlers and israeli security forces in the west bank, with the most shocking being the events in huwara. many commentators see the events in huwar as a sign of the growing audacity of settlers, whose sense of impunity may be fueled by the awareness of the presence of their supporters in the israeli government. i would like to warn you, ladies and gentlemen, about the palestinian christians. easter is coming. we talk about the palestinian-israeli conflict, and we forget about christians, who have been persecuted for centuries by both extremists.
ladies and gentlemen! history and geography know no emptiness, especially today when we have war in europe. you can't play a game between russia and the european union, and the georgians who took to the streets in large numbers understand that. we see you, we are with you, we see those european flags, raised high, which you bravely hold even when the police beat you and pour cold water on you. and from there, an appeal to the georgian government. that future is in your hands. you are responsible for the future and security of georgia. abandon the russian rhetoric, the russian law, because georgia is in europe. that's what the georgians want. the future of the nation is in your hands, but also the health of president saakashvili. the polish government wants to treat him. what's bothering you? what are you afraid of, not allowing international doctors? make up your minds, because the georgian people deserve security and secure development. georgia is in europe and your responsibility today lies with you, on your table and don't be surprised that you will not be partners for europe when you call it a foreign agency.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is a victory for the georgian people that the much-criticized bill on foreign agents has been withdrawn. systematically attacking and undermining civil society organizations is a proven technique of the kremlin and all dictatorships in the world. according to georgian president salomé zurabishvili, the bill looked very much like russian policy. the threat to democracy and human rights in georgia is by no means averted. over 80 percent of the georgian people want to join the european union. the georgian government must now listen to the georgian people. all political leaders in this country have a responsibility to manage. the desire of the people for freedom and dignity, away from the authoritarian grip of russia, must be supported more steadfastly by the eu. there is now a window of opportunity, and then there is a question for the commission: how can the commission help to work strategically to achieve this and candidate status as well?
mr president, the unrest in georgia in recent weeks is just one more step in the many steps taken by its citizens to move closer to the values of the european union. we, in line with the motion adopted by the spanish senate on 2 november on the initiative of my party, ask that this trajectory, maintained despite the russian threat, be recognised and addressed. georgia, when it fulfils the priorities indicated for this purpose, should be an official candidate for accession to the union. from the emotional perspective, for a basque woman, we support a people with whom we share deep bonds of friendship. from the point of view of european values, to send a message of this importance to that area is a demonstration of support and encouragement to a citizenry that wants to maintain its freedom and that feels largely european. but it is also a geostrategic investment and a new message for the putin regime. the criminal invasion of ukraine, neo-imperialism are reaping a result completely opposite to the intended.
mr. chairman, please! image of a man with a european flag physically attacked in tbilisi. pro-european protesters were watered and harassed, allegedly by foreign agents. that's a load of crap. georgians want to join the european union, they want freedom and prosperity, they want our european values. for them, as for the ukrainians, the eu flag is a symbol. what these two nations in the east have in common is that they're willing to die for this flag and these values. supporting georgia is in our security interests, but it is also a matter of decency, as is strengthening and building a stronger european union. for eight years, polish and hungarian public television have been demonizing european integration. the polish pis and hungary fidesz are doing the same thing as the kremlin in the information layer, they are scaring the european union, they are scaring germany, or soros. the european union must be stronger, it must be more integrated and it must be open to ukraine, georgia and moldova.
mr. chairman, please! perhaps, to begin with, you rightly pointed out to one of my previous speakers that the rules of this house do not allow the display of photographs during speeches. unfortunately, the rules of procedure also do not prohibit the speech of the unwise, to say the least, of people who are affected by a kind of patriophobia, that is, disgust for their own people or their own government. ladies and gentlemen, nobody needed this bill. it came from nowhere, it could only have come at the request of moscow. this bill must be repealed. these are the words of president zurabishvili, which she addressed to her fellow citizens on march 7th via teleconference, as she was in new york at the time. the law was repealed, but moscow's influence in georgia was no longer there. it is a kind of historical giggle that a country that was attacked by putin's thugs in 2008 is actually implementing moscow's policies through the mouths of its politicians today. you can't have one foot in moscow and the other in europe. today we are a wall behind the georgian people, but we must be clear: a country that commits the de facto murder of its former president will never have a place in europe.
ladies and gentlemen! i'm not going to let you do this. russia is trying to destabilize moldova. he's trying to cause a riot, using disinformation. but it's not going to work, mr. putin. the moldovans have chosen. they've made their choice and they're acting consistently. they have elected president sandu, they have elected a government, they have elected a pro-european direction of development and their future in europe. what are we supposed to do? what are we supposed to do as parliamentarians, as european institutions? of course, it is a daily task to be in chisinau and to work with this government, because reforms are necessary, but also the financial aid that the commissioner spoke about is necessary. programs, microfinance, but also more support for moldova, because indeed this energy crisis is felt. we need help for the government to subsidize energy prices to help these poorest people. and that is our duty. i would also like to appeal to one decision, a political decision. we must be ready to start the accession process this year, because the moldovans need this hope too. moldova's place is in europe.
in the name of the id group. madam president, mr von der leyen, mr michel, ladies and gentlemen, i listened with interest to what mrs von der leyen said, as she gave us a glimpse of her visit to the united states and gave us an idea of what the measures we are waiting for from the commission will entail. i am a little skeptical, however, because there are certainly some interesting elements in what you have outlined. but these are promises we have heard for a long time and we are waiting for concrete action. and then, in my view, on the subject of what europe wants to be in the next few years in terms of industry and production, there is a fundamental error in the strategy that the european institutions are pursuing, and i have repeated this several times. in my view, it is a great mistake to copy the united states or to think that the european union can now make or chase the united states on a battlefield for which we do not have adequate weapons. and really, the right strategy is not to replicate what the united states is doing, but to understand, to try to understand the reasons why, in the industrial transition, the united states can be a leader and a protectionist and the european union today cannot be because we lack so many tools. some of them he outlined. i would point out three of them, which i believe are fundamental and on which the approach to industrial transition should be based. one of them - you mentioned it, mr president, we have been talking about it for a long time - is the administrative and bureaucratic complexity. private investors are not investing in europe today, first of all because there are too many rules, because they are too complicated and because there is no legislative environment that is suitable for this type of investment. the second point is related, this also, you touched on it in your opening presentation, and it is the capital market. the united states has a highly developed capital market; europe is far behind in this respect. we have been talking about this for many years, but progress is really insignificant and there is an abundant amount of liquidity in these markets waiting for a signal to invest in new technologies as well. and the last point is about natural resources. the united states is a country with great natural resources, not only on its own territory, but also with neighbours and allies who have as many resources. our transition will be based on technologies and resources that depend on a great country that we are in conflict with today, which is china, which is not a democracy, which is not a country that we can tie our hands and feet to. and there's another theme: the second is that of technological neutrality. the commission is abandoning this sacred principle in its draft today: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the last point, on the subject of immigration. i agree with what mr procaccini said. i appreciated president michel's words, because it means that today there is a change of course, today there is no longer the narrative of open borders or redistribution, which is not possible, but the focus is on reducing an activity that is illegal. because, let's be clear, illegal immigration is an illegal activity. and it is a pity that in recent days i have heard some of my colleagues attack a government which in recent months has saved more than 30 000 people at sea, even in areas outside its jurisdiction. so it takes a little more respect, especially from those who here fill their mouths with respect for the rule of law, but then when it comes to immigration, they turn a blind eye to human traffickers.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i would like to touch on a subject which you have unfortunately not touched on in your speech so far. let's take a look at the latest poverty figures together. over 20 million children in the european union are affected by poverty. record lines are forming at food outlets across europe as the major energy and food companies pay record dividends to their major shareholders. these companies made 323 billion euros in excess profits last year alone, of which 238 billion euros were transferred directly to the well-stocked bank accounts of their major shareholders. this money could be used to combat poverty among the children and their families throughout the european union and to give them better life prospects. it is time for a european revolution in justice. it is only recently - about a year ago - that the energy market has gone completely haywire and consumers have been paying for this market failure in the form of increasingly extreme high prices for electricity and gas. you may recall, mrs von der leyen, that about six months ago, i believe it was august 2022, you announced that the commission would present a proposal for energy market reform that would at least reconsider the dysfunctional merit order principle, the principle that leads to the most expensive gas power plants determining the price of electricity. the commission proposal presented yesterday, however, does not implement this announcement, and i can tell you exactly why. the commissioner responsible, mrs kadri simson, has indicated that since you made the announcements, madam president, she has met with 57 representatives of energy companies and only once with a representative of a consumer organisation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not being implemented in the same way as the community's energy policy. instead of tackling market failure and finally turning the energy transition and energy supply upside down, they're doing a little bit of a symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom- energy poverty could be better tackled by abandoning the merit order principle, which would immediately make the price of electricity more sustainable. 30 million people in the european union were living in energy poverty before the cost of living crisis and the explosion in energy prices. if the commission would at last start to follow its announcements with action instead of becoming the plaything of the lobbyists, then perhaps by the end of the month these 30 million people would no longer have to wonder whether they can turn on the lights or the tv or buy something to eat. public control of energy supply, massive expansion of renewable energy are further building blocks to protect the many in europe from the greed of the few. crisis management is also about fighting poverty, not just leaving people out in the rain.
madam president, mr von der leyen, mr michel, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is already lagging behind its major competitors, the united states and china, in the challenge of transition. despite falling in recent months, gas prices remain too high and costs for european businesses and households are up to 7 times higher than in the united states. it is therefore clear that we cannot depend on foreign countries any longer, but we must keep energy costs down, otherwise our competitiveness will be weakened. the next council will be decisive in making up for lost time, but energy measures are not enough. europe needs a new large-scale industrial programme to fully meet the challenges of the transition, and i therefore welcome the speech by president von der leyen today, which i of course welcome and look forward to hearing more details. but we must look to secure investments and dedicated funds for this new industrial era based on clean and sustainable energy. but i still see too much reticence on this. unfortunately, too many countries, including my own, today do not seem to understand that we cannot miss the train of a future that is already here and try in vain to remain anchored to models that are now outdated. the world goes on without us and today is the time to show ourselves united here in brussels for an energy recovery fund which would be vital for italy and for the union.
mr president, on this day of elections for the provincial states in the netherlands, allow me to translate the importance of something like net-zero legislation very concretely - and in dutch, contrary to what you may be used to. take the province of groningen. i think it is a province which the president of the commission knows well because it is its neighbour, a region where natural gas production has stopped because of the earthquakes which caused it, with all the consequences that this has had. they now want to use the region's energy know-how to produce green hydrogen. this naturally requires more offshore wind turbines and the necessary infrastructure, pipelines on land, including in or near natura 2000 areas or other protected areas. the european parliament has long advocated faster authorisation procedures with more flexibility, if this is necessary to achieve the energy transition. and this is also something we hope to see in the european commission's legislative proposal tomorrow, so that the green deal is not only green, but also an attractive deal that keeps businesses and jobs in europe. that is something that we as the epp have wanted to do from the beginning and we will continue to do so.
madam president, to say anything meaningful within 60 seconds looks like a high-tech achievement. but we are discussing this, so let me try. without a strong, resilient and modern economy, europe will be losing its significance as a global player. but what’s more important, our standards of living will gradually deteriorate. this is what we all know. we need europe’s economy to be more competitive. we need to mobilize resources both public and private, to realise our ambitious objectives. however, we should not forget about internal cohesion of the eu, especially that most of it is a common currency area. without solving or at least alleviating internal european structural problems, we shall always stutter rather than move forward. so the task is double –stimulate global competitiveness and simultaneously strengthen the internal cohesion of our economy. reform of the macroeconomic management within the eu is as vital as the number of patents that europeans register.
madam president! mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. ladies and gentlemen! the question is simple: will accelerating the green transition, the european green deal, improve the situation and the lot of europeans? because that's what we're all talking about here, and that's what we're all thinking about. i dare to doubt, because at this moment the crisis caused by the war in ukraine should first of all make us think, to start thinking about what we can do on the one hand to secure aid to ukraine, but on the other hand to not let europe just stop being competitive and that europeans have, colloquially speaking, something to live for because this is a growing problem with galloping inflation as well. and here, very often, the question is: why, why won't we be allowed to drive combustion cars? who can afford electric cars? and at the same time, you're going to have modern panels, modern wind turbines that will produce energy. and people ask, will they be zero-emission? i mean, no. so why is this accelerated transformation happening right now at the expense of our budgets? that's one thing. the second point, ladies and gentlemen, and i think more important, at this point, is that we must first of all make it clear once again that ukraine needs our support, and that support must first of all be military. they need military equipment. and if so, then the individual nations must also arm themselves, must produce and buy military equipment. the polish government has proposed to exclude these defence expenditures from the deficit, so that they do not enter into the budgetary rules of the european union. because for many countries, it will be a tremendous help to support ukraine on the one hand, but on the other hand to help the citizens, the people who are struggling right now with the galloping inflation.
madam president, please! there has never been a period in the history of the european union that has been so difficult, so complex economically, so socially, so dramatic, because we have a war on our borders. and these challenges and decisions that we're making today are truly historic. we must respect these decisions, which show the scale of the aid to ukraine, including military aid. energy integration and these challenges that we're talking about today are real challenges for years to come. but the european council, we in europe have another weapon in our hands, a very powerful political weapon. because putin is afraid of the strong and the determined. it is high time that we give a perspective to those societies that want to live in peace and develop as we do. the accession process should therefore formally start this year and the european council should confirm and professionally prepare the process. it's a signal to putin that europe is determined, strong. and the word "enlargement" is not a word we fear. that's the goal. europe must be bigger, stronger, more integrated, because only then will we be competitive, only when we are united and strongly affirm this very direction of european development. and that's what i'm calling for from this podium today.
in writing. mr president, at the beginning of this debate, mr charles michel assured us of our full support for ukraine in its fight against the invader, for as long as it takes. but are these statements also backed up by deeds? the ukrainians need real help, not assurances and declarations. to defend themselves effectively, they need ammunition, tanks, planes, not guarantees that they will get them. poland is an example of how to provide military aid in a measurable way to a country that is defending itself against an aggressor and fighting for its survival. in the light of these developments, the uncritical pursuit of eu energy and climate policy is increasingly being questioned. this is not the time or the place to blindly implement an unrealistic target of a 100 percent reduction in co2 emissions from new cars by 2035. the commission notes that the 'green' objective of the directive is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 50% by 2020 and to reduce emissions by at least 50% by 2050. therefore, the polish government opposed the adoption of such a regulation, which would have strengthened the co2 emission standards for new passenger cars and for new light commercial vehicles. neither society nor the market is ready for this. until we have affordable cars on the market, the public will not accept these ideas. wartime is not the time for such experiments, and war is happening right next to us.
madam president, the failure of the silicon valley bank is reminiscent of the great depression, a good old banking panic like the early 20th century. who could have seen this coming? well, quite simply the supervisors, if the trump administration had not taken the path of financial deregulation by loosening regulatory requirements for mid-sized banks. without this easing, i will take the example of silicon valley bank, it could have conducted stress tests which would have revealed its vulnerability to rising interest rates. this would have allowed the bank and the supervisors to react in time. since these reforms, the small silicon valley bank has grown considerably and doubled its balance sheet to over 210 billion in assets while continuing to benefit from these relief measures. ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the revision of banking regulation. most member states, including france, and the majority of the groups agree to deviate from international standards and to relax the requirements for european banks. the bankruptcy of sv bank and others is a warning to us: let's not repeat the mistakes of the 2008 crisis and, of course, let's get off the deregulation trajectory.
president, the fall of silicon valley bank is the result of the reckless behavior of policymakers and central bankers. the low interest rate policy and the free money were taking irresponsible risks. that's what got money going to the wrong places. that is also the cause of the high inflation. central banks therefore had to raise interest rates quickly, which now put those banks that took irresponsible risks in trouble. the taxpayer cannot be held responsible for this. we can only hope that europe remains free. what we should not do, in any case, is stop the interest rate increases. we must continue to control inflation, the thief of the common man. so , what do you say ? continue with the interest rate increases, continue with the building up of bank capital buffers, and finally implement reforms and reduce debt. mr president, tackling inflation is rarely a soft landing. let's hope we're spared a domino effect.
madam president, the failure of svb is attributable to the bank’s mismanagement and its particular risk profile. however, the bank’s mismanagement went unnoticed because the bank was not captured by the regulatory scrutiny, as it was not under the scope of prudential rules. this is why, while the ultimate fault rests with the bank itself, there are important lessons for the regulators and two in particular. first, that the politically motivated watering—down of prudential rules and safeguards must be avoided, and also agreed international standards should be implemented faithfully and promptly. after the 2008 crisis, the dodd frank act defined banks with 50 and more billion dollars in assets as systemically important and subject to the strictest scrutiny. but in 2018, the trump administration raised this threshold five times. conveniently, svb stayed just under the 250 billion in 2021 and 2022, escaped regulatory scrutiny, and the lack of liquidity caused the bank’s demise. the second message: i trust that in the review of the eu’s crisis management and deposit insurance (cmdi) framework, we will ensure that mid-sized banks do not become a source of systemic risk. and we need an ambitious review of the cmdi framework promptly. with today’s rules, if we had a similar situation, the ecb would not have the same capacity or the same tools to intervene as the us authorities. our banking union remains incomplete and that’s why i hope that the commission will include the ecb’s recommendations on the cmdi revision, including a bigger role for deposit guarantee schemes. but we all know that what we really need is an agreement on this.
madam president, well, high inflation requires tightening of monetary policy. tightening of monetary policy brings about some collateral damage. we were afraid of monetary policy being overly restrictive. we in europe were and still are afraid of market segmentation. but the thing that we never really feared so much was financial instability. what we got from the us is a free-of-charge alarm bell. it really didn’t touch us, but it made us more aware of the risks and the lessons we can draw from it is: number one, no time to soften regulatory regime, and second, be prepared for higher financing costs for start-ups, for development.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! let's be honest with each other and not get carried away. if we want to continue to see the kind of devastating scenes that we've been talking about here, the deaths of children, three-year-olds, two-year-olds on beaches from greece to spain, then let's keep doing that. let's keep encouraging these unfortunates to come to europe. let's create the illusion that if there's a tragedy, some ngo will always help them, that there will always be the means to provide that kind of help. ladies and gentlemen, today, to the causes that have driven men for centuries to seek a better life, such as war, such as famine, such as misfortune, such as accident, another devil has joined. this devil's name is putin. it was mentioned here that the libyan wagoners are organizing the transfer of people to europe today. we know what happened on the eastern border of the european union, the polish-belarusian border. and today you attack governments that protect your citizens, and you glorify those who are the de facto drivers of this illegal smuggling into europe. if you want more of the tragedies you just talked about, keep doing it.
occurrence indicated by the blue card. well, i wanted to ask you because angela merkel once made a huge mistake by proposing the so-called forced allocation mechanism. that was in 2015. and this message is still echoing on different continents. that's why migrants come to europe. do you not think it would be easier to take the danish route and, for example, allocate huge sums of money from the european union right now and tell all the countries from which migrants come not to come because the illegal routes are busy?
member of the commission. – mr president, good evening, colleagues. really to just thank the chamber for putting this debate on your agenda, and i speak obviously on behalf of commissioner johansson. i think, as we close this debate, we know that this discussion is far from over. people get into small boats and embark on dangerous journeys because there are no legal ways for them to get to europe. many of you have expressed the need for safe legal pathways, and that is something that we support. let’s look at the realities of the european union today. we reckon that in the healthcare area, 2 million professionals are needed. we also know that by 2030 there will be 7 million vacancies in long—term care alone. mep daly mentioned that these people are assets. they’re human beings with the capacity to contribute and those who get into boats do it, putting their lives at risk because they want something better. i also recall that this is what we call the european year of skills, and to tell this house that we are making progress on talent partnerships with key partner countries. we’re starting with morocco, tunisia, egypt, bangladesh and pakistan, and we’re looking at nigeria in the near future. our member states are fully involved and this is really essential for success. our first round table took place with bangladesh on 1 march, with strong interest from italy and germany to foster labour mobility, which should include skills development and skills certification. today a round table meeting is taking place with pakistan. just last week, the first global jobs fair for refugee talent was organised in amman. this work can provide safe avenues and lead to jobs and opportunities. for example, over 100 refugees have been interviewed by potential employers. this is the future. it is in stark contrast to the terrible tragedies at sea. people smugglers – and we have to call them out – people smugglers are to blame for these tragedies. they exploit people’s dreams. they turn them into nightmares. these people end up in shipwrecks on the high seas or in airtight vans on the highways. we think about the 18 people found dead in a lorry in bulgaria, the people drowned near calabria, left to die, abandoned by smugglers who save their own skins. colleagues, these tragedies should galvanise us, should forge our determination, steel our resolve to fight the smugglers relentlessly by air, by sea and by land. we have to fight these smugglers as team europe and with our partners to do what we can to prevent people from getting into the smugglers’ boats, to prevent irregular departures, to work better together to save lives. next monday, commissioner johansson will meet with african union commissioner samate, high commissioner for refugees grandi, and director general of the iom antónio vitorino. this is done in our trilogue task force on libya, and the idea behind this is to prepare our high—level dialogue with libyan authorities. we have three key objectives: protecting the most vulnerable people in detention centres, including women and children; fighting smuggling and protecting victims; stepping up on returns, evacuations through the emergency transit mechanism, resettlement and reintegration of migrants. i welcome the interventions today that called for swift progress and adoption of the pact on migration and asylum. i agree it is high time to do that and i am encouraged by the good progress made by this house and by the council. i very much welcome the mandates you will agree on next week. we have a roadmap and we are on the right track. we now need to stay on track. there is a new mood in the council, a strong will to move forward. so the momentum is there. the time is right for an agreement on this pact. and together, i think we should remember that the objectives are to save lives. the figure was mentioned – i think mep wallace mentioned a figure of several thousand human beings whose lives have been lost at sea and perhaps many more thousands that have not been counted. i think we can address that collectively: parliament, council and commission.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you for this debate. there is no doubt that the situation at our maritime borders must be dealt with in an effective and timely manner, in accordance with european and international law. let me be clear: our priority is to save lives at sea. in this regard, cooperation with third countries can help to prevent irregular departures. the eu has been working together with key partners in north africa for many years with the aim to strengthen their border management, as well as their search and rescue capacities. this has helped to build up capacities for the international protection and migration management in the entire region. these partnerships are also important to strengthen the operational framework in partner countries in response to migrant smugglers. let me also say once again, and this is a clear message from this debate, that the reoccurring tragedies at sea remind us that a common european response is the only way forward. we must work together to ensure a functioning, coherent and predictable european migration policy and a whole government approach. as i have already underlined, the presidency intends to continue in facing a global approach to migration based on a balance between solidarity and responsibility. we have the firm will to find a common approach, and we are determined to pursue this commitment.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. if i knew you, i would mention you by name. but they were not given a chance. we know nothing about you, except that you are consumed in the life you have on your face. and we still call you illegals. politics has failed you in your country and even in europe. politics has killed you, and you still find people who are still writing on the walls. but the walls are only in their hearts. because to take such an unsafe route as yours, not because you want to risk your life but because you have to trust in the hearts of people you don't know, often just how much money they take from you and leave you for dead. unfortunately, though you did not find a physical wall, you still failed to have a european heart that so emphasises the beauty of diversity. how long will it take us to come here, plenary after plenary, to stress the importance of immigration legislation? how many lives must be lost? how long will you turn a blind eye to the fact that you are not the first point of hope for these people arriving in europe? probably, because you're not raising dead children on your beach. leave the peripheral countries alone! we would speak differently if we knew them by name, if we could feel fear in their hearts. but now i cannot, for what was, is no more.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to congratulate the commissioner on a very good speech. i fully agree that, alongside 'helping on the ground', the solution to migration should be to create safe and legal pathways for migration and to fight smugglers who fuel migration and put people at risk of losing their lives. but i'm a little bit short, because we've said a lot about it so far, and not much has happened. but i believe your announcement will translate into concrete action in the coming months. i welcome any information on any successful search and rescue operation in the mediterranean, but we cannot forget the people who are dying on other parts of the eu border as a result of the construction of walls and pushbacks. it's a bit like turning a blind eye to the suffering of refugees crossing the eastern migration routes. they need help just as much as those refugees who reach the eu's shores by boat. we must be consistent in our actions and above all ensure that international humanitarian law is applied in the same way everywhere. consequences must be drawn on those member states which do not respect this right. there can be no discount rate on this issue, otherwise we end up in a situation where we value people's lives and every one of them is equally important!
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the fight against organised crime remains a challenge for many european countries. crime knows no borders. we see what's happening in belgium with drug crime. we see what is happening in sweden, where there is a bloody gang war going on in the streets of malmö and stockholm. in my home country, poland, enormous progress has been made in recent years in the fight against organised crime, particularly in the context of vat mafias and criminal groups producing, distributing drugs or fuel mafias. the key changes introduced by the united right government were to strengthen the prosecution and police organisations and to improve cooperation between the two institutions. a very important element of the measures taken was the introduction of extended confiscation of criminal assets, which allowed to strike at the financial foundations of gangs. sadly, some criminals have found themselves with unlikely allies. for unknown reasons, some member states do not execute european arrest warrants and do not send criminals to poland to be sentenced. the netherlands' attitude is particularly incomprehensible, as it refuses to extradite and thus becomes a safe haven for members of organised crime groups. it's worth using our solutions.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! organised crime is a serious threat to all citizens of the european union. in 2019 alone, the revenue from organised crime reached 139 billion euros. that's like 1% of the community's gdp. additional threats have emerged in the wake of russia's aggression against ukraine. this attack represents a unique opportunity for organized crime. war fuels human trafficking, cyber fraud, cyber attacks, arms trafficking, and the theft of funds intended to help refugees. human trafficking, child exploitation and migrant smuggling are a group of particularly serious crimes against life and freedom. more than half of trafficking cases involve sexual exploitation, 20% involve exploitation of workers and 10% involve coercion. some of these crimes have become especially prevalent during the covid-19 pandemic. the smuggling of migrants is a subject we were discussing in this house literally a few minutes ago. and since this is a lucrative business for criminal groups, suffice it to say that over 90% of migrants pay smugglers. in 2019, smugglers earned more than eur 200 million on sea routes to the european union alone. so i say again: let us not support those who are actually working hand in hand with the criminals who are organising illegal immigration into europe.
member of the commission. – madam president, minister, honourable members, victims of organised crime are local. the fight against organised crime is continental and even global. it takes a network to fight a network. but that idea is at the foundation of our fight against organised crime. police cooperation and information exchange are at the very heart of this struggle: in day—to—day police cooperation via empact, the eu framework for police cooperation, which has the disruption of organised crime as one of its priorities, or in police operations supported by europol, like operation desert light, which took down a super cartel and top criminal bosses. since day one of this mandate, we put forward strategies and proposals: to boost police cooperation and information exchange; to follow the money and take it from the criminals to counter drug crime; to take guns out of our streets and out of criminal hands; and to fight trafficking of human beings and organised crime, a gendered crime and a very evil crime, where mostly men targeted especially women and girls, mainly for sexual exploitation, treating them as products to be bought and sold. through coordinated eu action, we have very forcefully countered trafficking of ukrainian women and girls following the exodus of millions of ukrainian women last year as a result of russia’s war of aggression, and successfully with very few concrete cases so far. thank you for all that you have said today, and thank you for supporting the fight against organised crime. everyone deserves to feel safe and thank you for helping make that happen.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, commissioner, honourable members, we are grateful for this opportunity to discuss how we can step up the fight against organised crime in the eu. many files and different views have been put forward. clearly there is no silver bullet, no single solution which would put the union one step ahead of the organised crime groups and organisations. the only way to fight organised crime is to work closely together, coordinating and sharing information between member states. on this note, let me highlight some important files in addition to my opening remarks. first, the recently presented revision of the so-called advanced passenger information directive, api. api data is an important complement to pnr data because it helps law enforcement authorities to confirm the identity of passengers. the presidency has started discussions, but it is still too early to say if it is possible to reach a general approach at the council meeting in june. secondly, interoperability of justice and home affairs databases will contribute to improving border management and internal security in europe. the set deadlines to implement each of these databases are very ambitious and had to be postponed on several occasions following the commission’s and eu-lisa’s assessment. the presidency is monitoring the latest developments in view of preparing for upcoming decisions on the way forward for this important programme. a conference on interoperability is taking place in stockholm this week. thirdly, to ensure the effective prosecution of crime linked to several member states, it is important that criminal investigations and prosecutions can be more easily coordinated to single member states. this requires clear rules. the presidency will therefore also prioritise the forthcoming proposal for a directive on the transfer of criminal proceedings, which could be particularly valuable in the fight against organised crime. finally, as a lot of speakers have said, organised crime is a cross-border problem requiring common solutions, cooperation and joint actions at the european level. thank you very much for this debate and thank you for your attention.
this conversation is over. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. madam president, the phenomenon of organised crime is a form of crime that poses a particular threat to the state and to citizens, since it requires the use of considerable human and financial resources to combat it. this is also a growing problem at eu level. the public has a right to expect effective action against transnational crime in the european union and legislative solutions to better combat it. in particular, constructive cooperation between the various institutions and legislative systems of the member states should be strengthened. national police and customs services, together with the eu institutions, must play a key role in the effective fight against transnational organised crime. however, we must not forget that this efficiency requires concerted action and good cooperation between the member states and a large number of third countries. a programme comprising a number of activities aimed at the transfer of knowledge, standards and good practice across the eu is also needed. such full cooperation will contribute to the fight against organised crime, which is very often of a cross-border nature.
the next item is the council and commission statements on 'women's activism - defenders of human rights in relation to sexual and reproductive health and rights' [2023/2574 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you for inviting the presidency of the council to intervene on this topic. let me start by recalling that the union is based on a set of common values, which all member states are obliged to respect. the protection of common values is a top political priority for the swedish presidency. the rule of law guarantees that these values are well protected, and as such, it must be fully respected by all member states and the eu. i also wish to underline the key role of civil society organisations and human rights defenders in our democratic societies, as they keep institutions accountable and contribute decisively to the political debate and the upholding of the advancement of the rights. with regard to sexual and reproductive health and rights, it is the foundation upon which women’s rights and participation in society is advanced. although i do not speak here today in my own personal capacity, for me, these are fundamental values. timely access to affordable, preventive and corrective healthcare of good quality is a right. as you all know, the european court of human rights has consistently ruled that member states have a wide margin of appreciation as to whether and under what circumstances abortion is permitted. as you also know, as far as the european union is concerned, primary law confirms that union law does not interfere with constitutional provisions and national legislation of eu member states relating to abortion. in accordance with the treaties, union action in the field of public health should respect the responsibilities of the member states when it comes to defining and organising delivery of health services and medical care. finally, let me conclude by repeating the eu’s commitment to ensure that each individual is able to decide freely and responsibly on matters related to their sexuality and sexual and reproductive health. this implies universal access to quality and affordable sexual and reproductive health information and education, as well as to a reliable healthcare service. thank you very much for your attention, i am looking forward to the debate.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable minister, dear members, last week, on international women’s day, we commended the resilience and strength of women around the world, their resolve to stand up against injustice and their dedication to protect others. a vibrant civil society is essential to protect our democracies, human rights, including women’s rights and the rule of law. in a year that marks the 75th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights, women’s human rights defenders and activists are indispensable in protecting the rights of all of us. the gender action plan iii encourages the enhanced participation and voices of women’s rights activists. the role of women human rights defenders is all the more important, given the growing oppression globally against women and girls and the alarming attacks on their human rights. we have witnessed this recently in iran, where women’s rights continue to be blatantly eroded, and in afghanistan, where the taliban increasingly erase women from the education system, the labour market and the public sphere. i therefore welcome last week’s council decision to impose restrictive measures on nine individuals and three entities in view of their role in committing serious human rights violations and abuses, particularly sexual and gender-based violence. we are also deeply concerned about the reports that russian armed forces use sexual violence, including rape, against women and children, as a weapon of war in the context of the unprovoked, unjustified and illegal russian war of aggression against ukraine. while we continue to work with our international partners to hold russia accountable for these crimes, we are also supporting the victims. for instance, we contributed 1.5 million to the united nations population fund to ensure access to sexual and reproductive health services for women and girls in ukraine. this includes the provision of dignity kits and specialised services for survivors. we also continue to support women activists in ukraine and their relentless work to support and protect women victims of conflict-related sexual violence. standing up for women’s rights and gender equality is a core value of the eu and the priority of eu policy. the eu notably remains committed to promote globally sexual and reproductive health and rights as an essential part of realising human rights. our ambition is clearly set out in the eu gender action plan iii and the european consensus on development. at the un commission on the status of women that is taking place in new york, the eu has been a staunch supporter of sexual and reproductive health and rights. we have also been engaging with human rights defenders ahead of the annual sessions. in december, the eu and african partners launched a team europe initiative to strengthen women’s sexual and reproductive health and rights in africa. we have allocated eur 60 million in new funding from our budget to this effort. eu member states also contribute to this initiative. additionally, last year we gave an additional eur 45 million to the unfpa supplies partnership that delivers modern contraceptives and life-saving maternal health medicines to the women and young people who need them the most. in addition, the eu-un spotlight initiative is combating gender-based violence worldwide, with a total funding of eur 500 million. of this amount, eur 100 million was earmarked for sexual and reproductive health and rights. also, this initiative has actively engaged with human rights defenders in this area. also in the eu, women’s activism promoting and enhancing women’s rights and gender equality is of course essential. with the gender equality strategy, we have committed to achieve a gender-equal europe, where all women and girls are free of gender-based violence, sex discrimination and structural inequalities and can lead and thrive. this is why we provide support to women’s organisations and services that make a difference for women across europe, including in the area of sexual and reproductive health and rights. under the citizens, equality, rights and values programme, we are funding organisations and projects in the area of gender equality, including those promoting sexual and reproductive health and rights. apart from women’s rights organisations, we support projects aimed to offer assistance to the specific needs of gender-based violence-affected girls, women and children. we also support regular exchanges of good practices between member states and stakeholders on gender equality and health, including on sexual and reproductive health and rights. according to the treaty, union action shall respect the responsibilities of all member states for the definition of their health policy and for the organisation and delivery of health services and medical care. the legislative powers on sexual and reproductive health and rights lie within the member states, but when exercising their competences, member states must respect fundamental rights which bind them by virtue of their national constitutions and commitments under international law. i would like to recall that when member states are implementing union law, they have to fully respect the provisions of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, including article 7 of the charter on respect for private life. i thank this house for its continued support to women’s rights and women’s activism. strong women’s rights are an asset for the eu as a whole in keeping our societies vibrant, competitive, democratic and equal.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. although there are, of course, a large number of countries in the world where women's rights activists, including abortion rights, are fighting, we are looking particularly at poland today. because that's where it happened that activists were convicted, activists who helped women in their distress, to not have to carry a pregnancy against their will, with medication. a woman was sentenced to eight months of community service by a state that does not value the work of this woman, does not value that she stands up for life every day, namely for women's lives. this morning we had a press conference with the polish women, justyna and marta, and they told us they would continue. they will continue to fight for women's rights, they will not be discouraged. they're closing a gap. these courageous women fill a void that the polish government has created in the country, a void of mistrust and a void of violence against women. because if you deny women the right to control their own bodies, you are committing violence against women. we say thank you to justyna, thank you to marta, thank you to all women's rights activists around the world. we're on their side. the eu women and some of the eu men are standing by them.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, i cannot believe that neither the council nor the commission condemned what happened yesterday here in the european union: for the first time in decades, an activist was condemned in europe for helping a woman to exercise her right to abortion. this is unbearable, commissioner. "they want to silence us, make us invisible, scare us so that we stop our activity" - these are justyna's words. silence is the greatest accomplice to violence. today a member state wants to gag its citizens so that they do not report violations of their rights. poland needs a clear reaction, which it has not had today from the council or the commission, but it will have from this parliament. there is no vibrant democracy, no possibility of democracy with muzzled citizens. this is not possible, madam commissioner.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. - madam president! - i have to go. justyna wydrzyńska is a human rights advocate. she helped another woman, annie, who was in a difficult situation. yesterday, justine was convicted of aiding and abetting. but i'm not going to comment on that verdict. i will read you the words that ania addressed to justyna: "miss justyna, thank you for the fact that in the most difficult moment of my life, when the people closest to me, my family, and the doctors failed, you, as one of the few, gave me help. it was a human gesture, because in a situation where people who had a moral, and some of them a legal, obligation to help me were standing by, washing their hands, you gave me your hand. and today, three years after those events, what touches me most is your words that despite what happened to you, you have no regrets and you would do the same again. those are some of the most important words i've ever heard in my life from another human being. thank you. we should all be thanking justine. activists like justyna in countries like poland are the only guarantee of human rights. because abortion is a human rights issue. and unfortunately, they will be the only guarantee as long as the european union refuses to address the issue of abortion access.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, almost half of this parliament is uncomfortable with the title of this debate, because it is natural to understand that life is a gift to be celebrated. what can happen in one's heart that makes one not tremble at the beginning of a life? it has been said here that it is cruel and inhuman to offer to listen to the beating of your heart. that means that sound is telling them something. it's a life that can't be repeated, that's just waiting to be loved. with their activism, with their screaming, women are prevented from being heard, from listening to themselves. they're being kept from the truth. they are fed doubts, fears and a false freedom that shackles them to an existential void. they know full well the heartbreak of abortion. it's a drama, a drama that no one can wish for. it is reckless for our society to speak of defending human rights when this is a practice contrary to them. i'm sure your hearts already tell you that. i encourage you to embrace life, to dare to love.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, justyna wydrzyńska was just yesterday convicted in a polish court for helping another woman to access a safe abortion. it is dramatic. it’s a shameful first case in europe. helping another woman can never be a crime. and still there was not one single word from any of the eu’s highest responsible representatives at the formal sitting marking international women’s day this morning. not a word from ursula von der leyen, not a word from charles michel, and not a word from our own roberta metsola. and their silence is unbearable. it is unacceptable. there is a war on women’s bodies. we are the battleground for conservative and religious fundamentalist forces, dogmatic forces. and concretely, we need to see more action now. we need you to recognise the connection between dismantling of democracy and the rule of law, and attacks on srhr, women’s rights defenders and lgbti defenders in europe, today. and we need you to sanction countries like poland for breaching the rule of law. and we need you – the commission – to launch a strategy to defend sexual and reproductive health and rights defenders and women’s rights activists and lgbti activists in europe, today. not outside europe: in europe, today. the time for solidarity is now.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! it is sad that once again from this place we have to speak, remind and call for the defense of human rights in the area of sexual, reproductive and health rights. yesterday, justyna wydrzyńska was sentenced by a polish court to 8 months of community service and found guilty of aiding and abetting a pharmacological abortion that did not occur. one might get the impression that this trial had a political dimension, hitting activists and human rights defenders. and again, i ask the question: how much does it take to hate women to condemn them to trauma, to suffering, to endangering their lives, and often to refuse to become pregnant in the face of legal consequences and lack of choice? i ask why so many politicians want to be the conscience of women and why so many of them claim the right to make decisions for us? and why do so many other women support these politicians? i don't understand this. i hope that our work here in the european parliament on solutions to protect women from violence in the broadest sense will help to end the suffering of many women and bring perpetrators to justice. and i also believe that with the strong support of women, we can change these governments that not only do not support our rights, but actually disregard them. and i want to thank all the activists and activists, especially in my country, who are fighting for democracy and freedom and human rights and women's rights.
madam president! the fundamentalists who rule poland know that for polish women, freedom and the right to decide about their life and health is like air. that's why they'll do anything to cut off their air supply. they attack, they kneel, they harass. as a result of their actions, at least 6 women died: isa, anna, justyna, dominika, agnieszka, marta. but we know that the casualties of the barbaric ban may be more. yesterday's show trial of justyna wydrzyńska, a human rights defender who helped another woman, is a show trial to the belarusian lukashenko. justina is the first person in europe to be convicted of assisting in an abortion. but justina is not a criminal. justina is a hero who will become a symbol of the struggle for women's rights. justina is like millions of poles. she's tough and she'll keep fighting. he is unstoppable. but polish women can't go alone. i would like to call on all the european institutions to show solidarity. polish women must finally have the same rights as finnish, spanish and french women. and one more thing. the prosecutor who prosecuted izza said that giving out that phone number was a felony aiding and abetting. so i'm proud to be a part of this crime and give you the number that saves the lives and health of millions of poles. polka's not dead yet.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! a nation that kills its own children becomes a nation without a future. those are the words of the polish pope, john paul ii. in this debate, we're trying to include in the catalogue of human rights the so-called sexual and reproductive rights. and i ask, do unborn children have no rights? who in this parliament will defend these children? the ones who can't defend themselves? who will fight for their right to live? article 2 of the charter of fundamental rights states that everyone has the right to life. the convention on the rights of the child, on the other hand, stresses that because of his immaturity, a child needs special care and attention both before and after birth. in the name of what justice do we subject people to discrimination, considering some of them worthy of protection and denying it to others? it is an ideological struggle against life and the family, a struggle in which the killing of unborn children is reduced to a mere medical procedure. the care of a child should be the first and primary test of a man's relationship to another man. let's keep that in mind. (the president agreed to reply to the debate by raising the blue card)
i am sorry, because i was not at my place i did not hear the translation of the question. once again please.
response to an emergency signalled by the raising of a blue card. you're absolutely wrong. in poland, abortion is possible because of the loss of a woman's health and life. you're repeating the same nonsense that the opposition here serves you up all the time in every debate like this and like this on the rule of law. there are two cases in polish legislation that give the possibility of terminating a pregnancy. it's not like you guys are saying that abortion is illegal in poland. that's a lie.
madam president, when you look at the heading of this debate, 'women's activism: defenders of human rights related to sexual and reproductive health and related rights', it seems abstract, but it is not. you are talking about european citizens in the flesh: justyna in poland, threatened with a prison sentence of up to three years by a prosecutor directly subordinate to the prosecutor general, who happens to be the same minister of justice who asked the polish constitutional court, politically intervened, to declare that poland is no longer subject to the primacy of european law. the same constitutional court that severely restricted the free choice of polish women to decide freely about their pregnancy. it is therefore time to remember that sexual and reproductive rights are human rights linked to precious fundamental rights, such as privacy, the free development of the personality and, of course, the physical and moral integrity of women. the european parliament is therefore right to send a message not only of concern but also of rejection of any criminal prosecution of women who freely decide about their pregnancy and, therefore, about their own lives.
madam president! the bunch of hypocrites from the law and justice party, who took away our women's freedom and security, today brazenly lie about worms, about the union taking away freedoms. like this guy patrick jake. it's because of him and his cronies that women in poland are persecuted. yes, you're the reason they're being persecuted. one of them is justyna wydrzyńska, punished for helping. nobody's gonna tell me that prosecuting someone for handing out morning-after pills is normal. i live right on the border with the czech republic, 22 kilometers. there, the 'afternoon' pill is available not only in the pharmacy but also in the drugstore. the people of poland are being intimidated by the authorities. the birth rate is falling because of the pis government's policies. the highest birth rates are in france and the czech republic, with more than 1.8 births per woman. abortion is legal there. poland is far, far behind coefficient 1.3. the union must intervene when the state fails! in my report on the istanbul convention, we call for support for women's rights organisations. the istanbul convention for the whole union, as soon as possible!
member of the commission. – madam president, minister, thank you, honourable members, for your contributions to this debate. i hear you and i hear you very well. as you know, the commission cannot comment on individual cases, particularly with reference to cases where the eu has no competence. i am, of course, as you know, very concerned with the rollback of women’s rights and will, with you, continue to work hard for women’s rights and gender equality. we can only achieve a union of equality if all women in europe have equal access to high-quality healthcare services and treatments, and if their fundamental rights are guaranteed and respected. beyond our borders, the eu will continue to use all its diplomatic tools, including negotiations in the multilateral fora and political and human rights dialogue, to counter the backlash on women’s rights. we will continue to support women’s human rights defenders at risk. we will continue to lend our full support. only with strong women’s rights movements can we reach our goals and build a world of equality.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, commissioner, honourable members, i know that this topic means so much to many of you and including myself. let me show you once again that the presidency attaches great importance to the protection of fundamental rights and in particular, the rights of women and the protection of women who are in a vulnerable situation. and as i also said, this is my deepest personal conviction. rule of law remains the bedrock of our union, and it is essential for the protection of fundamental rights and the very function of our democracy. the presidency remains committed to ensure that human rights are protected in the member states, to protect those who fight for their rights, we are advancing work with strategic laws, such as on the public participation directive actively, and also examining the proposal for a media freedom act, which aims to create a safe working environment for journalists and ensure a sound and plural media ecosystem, to cite some examples. especially in this difficult period, the union as a whole needs to be vigilant on the respect for the rule of law and for our common values. we should all join forces to ensure robust legal protection for women throughout the eu. thank you very much for this for holding this important debate and i agree eu can do more.
this conversation is over. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
the next item is the report by mrs hannah neumann, drawn up on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eu guidelines for human rights defenders [2021/2204 (ini) ] (a9-0034/2023).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, in the year that marks the 75th anniversary of the universal declaration on human rights and the 25th anniversary of the un declaration on human rights defenders, we need to pay tribute to the essential role human rights defenders play in defending the human rights of all of us. courageous human rights defenders, including women, youth, lgbti persons or environmental defenders, are at the forefront of long-standing and emerging human rights battles by standing up against corruption, speaking out against the impact of climate change, combating internet shutdowns or documenting war crimes. they are being threatened, attacked and in some cases they pay the ultimate price with their lives. many of these incidents remain unknown to a larger public while human rights defenders continue to be killed, for instance, in honduras and cameroon or eswatini. the eu condemns these assassinations and asks for impartial and in fact and effective investigations. the report of rapporteur neumann is a timely reminder of the need to constantly adapt our tools and policies to new challenges. we share the concern about the proliferation of threats and challenges against human rights defenders, such as transnational repression, digital surveillance, reprisals or attacks from non-state actors. protection of human rights defenders is and will remain an essential priority for us. we deliver results through public and private diplomacy, human rights dialogues, trial observation, visits and detention, or by delivering emergency grants. over the past two weeks, for example, we have been vocal in condemning arbitrary detention or attacks on human rights in azerbaijan and nicaragua. in our recent eu-china human rights dialogue, we raised a list of individual cases. it is essential to enhance the visibility and legitimacy of human rights defenders, and we will continue to carry out public campaigns showcasing their work and reaffirm the need for all states to protect human rights defenders. we will match our actions and our words with funding. between 2022 and 2027 we are spending eur 30 million for protectdefenders.eu, the eu’s human rights defender mechanism, which allows us to support with emergency relocation, legal support or cash injections for human rights defenders at risk and their relatives. through this flagship programme, we have already provided assistance to more than 58 000 human rights defenders.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. dear colleagues! i'm glad i was able to work on this report, which is crucial for human rights defenders. and i thank hannie neumann, the rapporteur, and my colleagues the rapporteurs for their good cooperation. as events of recent days have shown, the steadfastness of human rights defenders and their continuous work to defend others requires greater attention and commitment, as well as better coordination of action by the institutions and the member states. i strongly support the report's proposals to update and extend the guidelines for human rights defenders to include a wider range of groups and more innovative approaches, as well as to improve communication and transparency on their implementation. the report draws attention to the growing threats to which human rights defenders are undoubtedly exposed by national authorities or third country agents in the member states of the european union. the report also calls on the european commission and the member states to prioritise, identify and tackle these threats in the framework of the guidelines. i hope that these guidelines will be a guide for the actors involved and that they will be implemented in actions for this group, and we will see the effects soon. in closing, i would like to thank all the human rights defenders for their work. thank you for being there where they are persecuted and oppressed, for defending those who no one wants to defend, for rescuing those who need help, and for remembering those who have been forgotten by so many.
mr. chairman, please! the best interests of the child must be paramount in all adoption decisions. the minimum standards for adoption should be clear to everyone. the purpose of adoption is to provide a child with an environment in which he can grow up in an atmosphere of love and understanding and develop harmoniously. a child should grow up in a family environment. and there is no way to avoid referring to the tragedy of ukrainian children. because we need to spread the word that russia is deporting thousands of children from ukraine to be adopted by russian families and russified. russian propaganda cynically claims that these children were saved. there's no record of the number of children abducted. ngos say it could be as high as several hundred thousand. the new sanctions package against russia has already blacklisted a dozen people responsible for illegal deportations, including, most notably, a russian child rights advocate who herself adopted a boy from mariupol. action is therefore urgently needed to raise awareness of this situation and to support ukraine in the recovery of children.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, eight croats were charged last month with child trafficking in zambia. they were arrested while trying to leave the country with four african children they claimed to have legally adopted in congo. this case highlights the potential pitfalls of international adoption. it is true that intercountry adoption must continue to be allowed because it allows a child without a family to find one, which is in the child's best interests. but i think that recognition of this must be subject to two conditions. first, it must only cover children who are really isolated and not children who have been taken away or bought from their families. this is required by the hague convention of 29 may 1993, which distinguishes international adoption from child trafficking. on the other hand, recognition of adoption should be possible only if it respects the national law of the host state. i believe, for example, that no one should force a state to recognise an adoption resulting from surrogacy if that state prohibits surrogacy on its territory. the commission is doing this through its proposal for a european parental certificate. that is why i am totally opposed to this project. the determination of the anthropological choices on which family law is based must remain a national competence.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. my fellow members of parliament! the debate on the european parental certificate is both a legal issue and an ideological position. it is a matter of law because family law is rooted in the history, culture and social values of the member states. therefore, any proposal that would make the recognition of parental status between member states compulsory is strictly within the competence of the nation states and constitutes a serious abuse of union competence. it is an ideological resolution because the eu institutions, by circumventing the treaties, are waging a global war against the traditional european christian family model. our position, which is based on the provisions of the hungarian basic law, is clear both from a legal and ideological point of view. the mother is a woman, the father is a man, and the concept of family is a national responsibility. please respect that.
mr president, the cases from croatia that we have mentioned warn us that the practice of crossborder adoptions may not always be carried out with good intentions. instead of finding a home, a child without a family may become a victim of exploitation of vulnerability or of crime, including trafficking in human beings. i would like to draw attention to another problematic aspect. cross-border adoptions can also serve to cover up the practice of so-called surrogacy. this practice, which is contrary to human rights, de facto allows children to be ordered and obtained as goods. in addition to violating the rights of children, it also undermines the rights of women, who often come from poor countries or disadvantaged backgrounds. abuse of their situation is monitored by the maternity ward. these are all threats that we must take into account when discussing cross-border adoptions and we should definitely not underestimate them.
mr. chairman, please! adoption from third countries. how beautiful that sounds. but behind that slogan, there is nothing but the adoption business and the surrogacy business. after all, as the brussels press reports, gay couples were able to buy surrogate children in ukraine at the fair for sexual minorities. this is a multi-million dollar business that the european commission wants to legalise within the community, knowing full well that it has no treaty powers in this matter. the aim is to impose same-sex unions on member states and then to allow them to adopt children. normal societies that operate on values will never accept this. this debate should not be happening at all, and what you're trying to do is social engineering that the public doesn't accept.
in writing. adoption changes the whole world of a child. so it's the responsibility of regulators, of social services, of any intermediary organizations, of prospective parents, to make sure that this little world is changed for the better. let's be clear: illegal adoptions are simply part of the human trafficking phenomenon. the more disgusting the children. first, when adopting children, especially from a very distant and culturally distinct country, all parties involved should exercise the utmost care and diligence in carrying out this procedure. this is especially true if the country concerned does not cooperate under the 1993 hague convention. second, yes, there are many wonderful people who are willing to open their hearts and homes to children in need of care and love. but let us not be naive. there are bad people who, under the guise of adoption, commit the worst crimes possible. i am therefore pleased that the commission is proposing to include illegal adoptions in the list of offences under the trafficking in human beings directive. i also believe that the european commission and the member states should work together to prepare and make available reliable information on intercountry adoption and to carry out regular assessments of those countries and regions of the world where adoption is particularly at risk. when we make adoption law, we are moving between the wonder of a loving home and the hell of child slavery. let's remember that the best interests of the child are the highest law.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i am glad that we are having this debate and i hope that the commissioner will take a holistic approach to the problem, because the initiative, although supported by a million signatures - who in the world does not love bees and does not know how important they are - is unfortunately one-sided. i'm from poland, where we have bee colonies every year, where we have a tradition for centuries. we know how to take care of bees. and i want to start by saying that we should think about this and try to take some examples of people who have these results, but they're also using plant protection products. of course, we need money, not just for the little ones. thanks to commissioner wojciechowski, they're already here. but also, for large alpine areas, you need mapping, so that there are no conflicts between farmers or between those who move from cities to the countryside. i'm glad we're going to discuss this.
madam president! i would like to thank you for your support of the citizens' initiative 'save bees and farmers', to which this title should be added '...and guarantee safe food for consumers'. i'm drawing attention to the well-known but largely ignored fact that 80 percent of crop yields depend on pollinators. this means that farmers and beekeepers are an integral community and should, indeed must, cooperate with each other. given all the aspects of the initiative, i would like to see a resolution adopted and work on a bee directive which will, among other things, aim at: first, the effective introduction of good agricultural practice aimed at reducing the use of aggressive plant protection products, the creation of programmes to support pollinators, the re-establishment of past mid-field shelters for pollinators and other animals, the obligation for producers to work on safe plant protection products and products to treat diseases and control bee parasites. i am convinced that these actions will bring tangible benefits to consumers, farmers and pollinators.
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. i've been listening to you carefully, but i wanted to read something to you. the highest number of honeybees were killed in western europe: france, belgium, switzerland, germany, the united kingdom, the netherlands, italy, and spain. do you not think that this situation is due to the dominance of industrial agriculture in these countries and the lack of small farming and biodiversity?
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! i am proud to speak in this debate as the representative of poland, a country where the tradition of beekeeping has been particularly strong for centuries, and where the sector is well organised and supported by the state. however, i have the impression that the draft citizens' initiative lacks balance and objectivity. it focuses on the goal of eliminating pesticides completely by 2035 and restoring biodiversity, and it takes a very broad and general approach to supporting farmers, mainly in the context of developing organic production. instead of introducing unrealistic reduction targets for plant protection products, we should focus on measures to support the beekeeping sector, in particular by increasing the availability of medicines to combat bee diseases. i hope that the european commission will use common sense in its approach to this citizens' initiative and also take account of the union's specific geopolitical situation. the union's food security on a global scale needs a strong beekeeping sector and at the same time a strong and resilient agriculture. the belief that the current high efficiency of european agriculture can be sustained solely on the basis of organic production is, in my view, naive, and this naivety can cost us dearly.
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. i listened carefully to your speech and i wanted to draw attention to and ask you basically one aspect of this whole animal welfare issue. namely, i'm convinced that pet owners respect their animals, breeders respect their animals, but there's a problem with transportation. do we have the knowledge, do we have the instruments to check, as the european union, what happens to animals during transport? do we have information here?
madam president! i'm not going to let you get away with this. i call on the european commission to take immediate action to support poland and other countries bordering ukraine in the transport of ukrainian grain. today, polish farmers and farmers from these countries that are neighbouring ukraine are facing an unprecedented problem because they need support. it turns out that the grain that was supposed to be in transit is staying in our countries. immediate financial and systemic action is needed. the european commission must use all the legal, procedural and systemic tools available to it to provide such aid in solidarity with polish farmers. poland is one of the countries most committed to helping ukraine and we don't have to prove it to anyone. from the first days of this terrible war, poland was involved in humanitarian, military and economic aid. we are in solidarity with ukraine, we are in solidarity with the european union countries that are providing this aid, but today we need solidarity for polish farmers. i call again on the european commission to take action as soon as possible to support polish agriculture by providing adequate financial and systemic support.
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. i really liked what you said. i'm as sensitive as you are to the poverty you speak of. i would like to know what you think about one of the causes of poverty and the economic crisis in the european union. i am thinking in particular of the european carbon trading system. i wanted to ask you what you think about this matter. because we know -- or we think -- that about 50 percent of the energy, heat, and water costs in the european union are the result of implementing this very bad system.
mr. chairman, please! the ecr group has no problem voting in favour of the ozone depleting substances regulation. it's really sorting, adjusting the definition or adjusting it to other legal acts. the reality has changed a bit and this document needs to be updated. we have a big problem with the regulation on fluorinated gases, because it is unrealistic and impossible to implement. and it is actually contrary to what is in the repowereu document, to which mr timmermans is particularly attached. there's no way that we can get away from fluorinated gases at this rate and not worry about heat pumps, which are the alternative here. this will disrupt the energy system, disrupt energy efficiency, disrupt small and medium-sized businesses, and ultimately, basically, heat pumps will be unavailable to the market because they're so expensive. here we have to think, to take the time, to show alternatives, to evaluate these alternatives, so as not to be suspected that we are looking after the interests of a few - especially german - companies.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for working together on this regulation and for negotiating it with the council. consumer protection and safety is one of the fundamental functions that member states and the european institutions should fulfil. i am pleased that the new rules on information flow will enable market surveillance authorities to react more quickly in the event of an accident caused by a product. i appreciate the fact that the final text takes a risk-based approach that focuses efforts where it matters most for consumer safety and at the same time does not lead to a disruption of online commerce. we've reached a good deal for consumers whose products have proven to have problems after purchase. in the event of a recall, they will be informed and given a choice between receiving a new repaired product or a refund. i am convinced that the implementation of the new regulation will make a significant contribution to raising the level of consumer protection and safety in the single market and will facilitate trade between member states.
mr president, dear colleagues, the economic coercion by the totalitarian regime of the chinese communist party experienced by lithuania last year has highlighted some hard lessons. first, growing assertiveness and aggression of non-democratic regimes through economic, political and other means. second, the lack of ability of the eu to jointly defend one of our member states and the core principles of the single market. that’s why i welcome this week’s political decision on the new anti-coercion instrument. the instrument addresses an important gap in our capabilities to defend our single market against economic coercion. it strikes a crucial balance between avoiding slide into protectionism while defending our interests and security in the face of the ccp’s malign influence and attempts to undermine our democracies.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! i would like to thank all those who took part in the great celebration of upper silesia in the european parliament. thank you very much. it was incredible when after the monodrama of the korez theater "i will name my hanka", bravely personified by grażyna bułka of the history of silesia, more than 200 people cheered and cried at the same time. yes, the history of silesia is a real rollercoaster. i am all the more pleased that in the panel "silesia in europe" before the show, the cause of silesia gained strong allies from warsaw. editor adam michnik and dr. hanna machińska supported the recognition of silesian as a regional language and silesian as an ethnic minority. it's high time to recognize silesian as an ethnic minority, which automatically legalizes the silesian language. let us build a strong, united europe, but let us not forget the regions and the rights of people to their own identity.
mr. chairman, please! i'll talk about the situation of women, in terms of the pay gap, in my country, poland, a country that is so often attacked and criticized here in parliament. the wage gap in poland is 4,5%. we are only ahead of luxembourg, romania and slovenia. so, in this scale, poland is high up. as far as the public sector is concerned, we have a negative pay gap of 0.6%. in the private sector, however, it is indeed at the european average of 13%. as regards women aged 55 to 64, this figure is over 6% in favour of women. in the construction sector, women earn better (9.6%), and in the transport and storage sector, women also have a higher share. i'm talking about saying that there are countries that before the directive were pursuing this equality without an eu mandate. i'm proud that this was in my country. there is of course a certain scope to be filled in and the directive will certainly be helpful in this respect. (the president agreed to reply to the debate by raising the blue card)
response to an emergency signalled by the raising of a blue card. i am well aware of the gender pay gap in different countries. there is a huge gap between what the wage gap is in luxembourg and what it is in, say, rich germany, france and the netherlands, where the average is between 0.7% and 18%, and even up to 22%. i understand there's a desire to minimize that gap. but i wanted to point out that there are some countries that are conducting their social policy - i'll refer to other areas as well - without mandates, applying their own national strategies. i appreciate what is being done in parliament, but i want the work of the member states to be appreciated in this house as well.
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. i'm very pleased to hear that, but i have a question. germans, germans and german politicians have often warned poland, the poles, that there is no rule of law, that we are intolerant, and it turns out that in germany the gap in women's advantages is 18%. what were the german politicians doing at the time that there are such deficits and such disadvantage for women in germany? you are the ones who are unjust to women in germany. why don't you just admit it? why do you keep attacking poland and you can't give us the benefit of the doubt? you don't know much about poland, yet you criticize poland. explain to me why women in germany are paid so little and you socialists are in power at the moment.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i want to shout, "finally!" because, as i was saying to my colleague recently, it seems to me that the obvious does not need to be regulated by a directive. but when i listen to some voices, it turns out that the directive is necessary. that is why i congratulate the rapporteurs. i congratulate you on the fact that, even at this late hour, we have settled this matter. it's a really shameful problem that in the 21st century, the gender pay gap is so - i would say - devastating and still present. i would also like to express my satisfaction that the directive has managed to include a stepwise model in its text. this gives the opportunity for the member states to prepare appropriate legislation. i hope that, thanks to this directive and due diligence on the part of the member states and employers, we will never again have to raise this issue in this house. (the speaker agreed to reply to the speech by raising the blue card)
response to an emergency signalled by the raising of a blue card. i would like to congratulate minister rafalska on her speech. i really thought it was very good. you're the minister, you don't have to tell me. i'll take that. i'm surprised by this question because i'm proud of what's happening in my country in this regard. because, in fact, thanks to years of work, we have a gap that is one of the smallest in europe. but i also believe that a directive is necessary for a comprehensive regulation. i do not know how you will vote as ecr, but i think we must make these decisions here unequivocally.
in writing. despite equal pay for equal work or work of equal value being one of the founding principles of the european union, the gender pay gap in the eu stands at around 13%. undervaluing or underpaying women's work has long-term repercussions on their quality of life, putting them at greater risk of poverty and further gaps in pension treatment. the challenge of tackling any discriminatory action based on sex, not only in relation to basic pay but also in all other related aspects, remains a challenge. strengthening pay transparency will make it easier to compare salaries of employees, help to highlight gender bias in pay and job-placement systems and improve access to justice for victims of pay discrimination. the elimination of all disparities in the workplace is a necessary step towards full gender equality.
in writing. equal pay for equal work is one of the eu's fundamental principles, enshrined in article 157 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union explicitly refers to gender equality in several dimensions, including pay. despite this, the gender pay gap in the eu still stands at 13% (eurostat 2020). poland is among the five member states with a pay gap of less than 5% and equal to 4,5%. the pay transparency directive will lead to equal opportunities in workplaces. once the new rules come into effect, it will be the company's responsibility to provide the proposed salary when posting a job. regardless of the size of the enterprise, every worker will have the right to request information on his individual level of pay and the average level of pay by sex for employees doing the same or similar work as him. a directive guaranteeing equal pay for equal work for women brings a number of benefits to the economies of eu countries. improving gender equality will lead to an increase in gdp per capita of the eu of 6.19.6% and to the creation of an additional 10.5 million jobs by 2050, benefiting both women and men.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the statements by the commission on the rule of law report 2022 the state of the rule of law in the european union (2022/2898(rsp)),- the rule of law in greece (2023/2628(rsp)),- the rule of law in spain (2023/2626(rsp)) and- the rule of law in malta (2023/2627(rsp)).
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i am pleased to be with you to discuss the 2022 edition of the commission’s rule of law report, as well as your motion for a resolution on this topic. as you know, the commission considers it particularly important to hold regular interinstitutional exchanges on rule—of—law matters. the commission’s rule of law report is being debated not only in the european parliament, but also in national parliaments, in the council, as well as in dedicated dialogues with civil society. the commission welcomes the draft resolution we are debating today on the third edition of the rule of law report of 2022. the commission appreciates that your draft resolution underlines a number of positive aspects of the report, including the four pillars it covers, namely the independence, quality and efficiency of justice systems, anti-corruption frameworks, media freedom and pluralism, and other institutional checks and balances. in follow—up to requests made by the european parliament, we also added some new topics in last year’s edition, such as public service media and the implementation of judgments of the european court of human rights. the 2022 report also covered topical issues during the year, such as the functioning of national checks and balances when it comes to concerns over the covid—19 responses by the member states and the use of spyware surveillance software such as pegasus in greece, spain, hungary, poland and france. the commission is also grateful that you recognise our efforts to engage with civil society. you also call on the commission to work closer with the fundamental rights agency. in this respect, we have indeed developed a new approach with dedicated national rule of law dialogues directly involving national civil society in a number of member states. in the preparation of the report, we are consulting stakeholders and receive many contributions from civil society organisations, professional organisations, including bar associations, practitioners and independent bodies. notable international bodies also contribute, such as the council of europe, the european network of national human rights institutions and the office of the un high commissioner for human rights. furthermore, we held hundreds of meetings with national authorities and stakeholders, including civil society. for this year’s report and in direct response to requests from parliament and civil society, we have also taken steps to further increase the transparency and inclusiveness of our work. we have prolonged the consultation period and, earlier this year, provided additional information about the country visits on our website. we now also provide more information on the composition, role and meetings of the network of national contact points on the rule of law. the most important innovation in the 2022 report, however, are the recommendations which your parliament has long called for. they are addressed to each member state. they cover positive practices and reforms which should be further pursued, as well as problems which should be addressed. these recommendations are anchored in eu law and european standards and take into account the specificity of national legal systems whenever relevant. they are tailored to the situation in each member state and are based on the clear and specific assessments contained in each country chapter. we have received positive feedback on the recommendations from you, from civil society and stakeholders, and also from the member states. we are determined to make the most of this important step forward. with regard to the findings of the 2022 report in specific member states that you added to today’s agenda and starting with malta, the report reflects that a number of reforms started in 2020 and have continued to be implemented. such reforms, in particular the reform of the system of judicial appointments, have contributed to strengthening the independence of the justice system in malta. however, challenges still remain, such as the efficiency of justice, as the length of proceedings has continued to deteriorate in recent years. several initiatives are ongoing, aimed to improve the efficiency of the justice system. in this context, the commission has recommended in the 2022 report to strengthen these efforts. although malta took additional measures and increased resources allocated to investigative and prosecution bodies, the investigation of high—level corruption cases remains lengthy. results in terms of final judgments are still lacking and remain a cause of concern. regarding greece, the report identified a number of measures aiming to improve the efficiency and the quality of the greek justice system, whilst several challenges still remain to be addressed, notably as regards the length of judicial proceedings. the commission recommended that greece address the need for involvement of the judiciary in appointments to the highest judicial offices, taking into account european standards on judicial appointments. the report also noted that the registration requirements for civil society organisations continue to raise concerns as regards its impact on the ability of ngos to operate in greece and to receive financial support. it addressed a corresponding recommendation. the challenges in the media sector, transparency of ownership, threats and attacks on journalists and adequacy of the media regulators’ resources remain concerning as well. the report recommended that the protection of journalists be improved. in relation to spain, the 2022 report highlights that the renewal of the council for the judiciary has been pending since the end of 2018, and there have been further calls to modify the appointment system in this council in line with european standards. the commission has recommended that spain proceed with the renewal of the council for the judiciary as a matter of priority and initiate, immediately after such renewal, a process in view of adapting the appointment of its judge members, taking into account european standards. spain has also increased resources for prosecution services, but the prosecution of high—level corruption remains a concern as the proceedings continue to be lengthy and complex. spain, however, continues to develop a strong integrated framework for the public administration as one means to prevent corruption and conflicts of interest. the commission has also recommended spain strengthen the statute of the prosecutor general, in particular regarding the separation of the terms of office of the prosecutor general from that of the government. to conclude, the commission is currently preparing the fourth edition of the report, which we plan to adopt in july. since february, the commission’s services have been in the very intensive phase of the country visits, meeting and engaging with three member states per week. importantly, the 2023 report will follow up and assess the implementation of the recommendations in the 2022 report.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. being a citizen of the european union means something that carries weight. to be a citizen of the union means to live in a democratic system governed by the rule of law. and that's far from a given. this is something that the european union is supporting. and this is something that is consolidated and developed in the annual rule of law report that we are debating here in the european parliament today. and it is something in which the eu level is there for all citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is a democratic society, a democratic society based on the rule of law, based on values which are held in high esteem in the european union, such as human dignity and the right to freedom. and that is what the european union is doing for its citizens. so when the eu level asks something of the member states, it is not a centralistic wish from brussels, but to stand on the side of those who deserve and should get the rule of law systems because they are citizens of the union. the rule of law is the european union's great promise to its own citizens and to the world. investing in europe means being sure that the law is applied and that the law is spoken. that's why we're an attractive location. and that's why it's so important that we uphold the rule of law. i thank the european commission for the annual report and, in particular, the colleagues from almost all the political groups in this house for the good negotiations on the rule of law report and i look forward to a strong vote from the citizens' representation for citizens' rights with colleagues from all the member states.
the european parliament's resolution on the third report on the rule of law. i have the honour of being the author of this resolution as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and the report contains some of the requests of this european parliament, country-specific recommendations, information pluralism and enforcement of judgments of supranational courts. but we ask for more. that the values of article 2 of the treaty on european union - rule of law, fundamental rights and democracy, and policies of equality and non-discrimination - which are so important to the venice commission, be fully extended. and an interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the council and the commission for the monitoring of the rule of law framework. but, unfortunately, this general debate was once again being derailed by the spanish popular party's obsessive smearing of its own country's reputation. spain does not have a rule of law problem, madam vice-president. spain has a problem with its opposition, with the democratic conformity of the opposition of the popular party every time the left wins the elections, which has never been able to lose or recognize electoral victories or the legitimacy of its action of government. and he is once again, irresponsibly, bringing his attacks against his own country, with the uncritical complicity of the european people's party. about the general council of the judiciary, it's clear. everybody knows that. if it has not been renewed for five years, it is because it has been kidnapped by the popular party, which is the only one that refuses to provide the necessary votes for the formation of 3/5, breaching the constitution and the spanish organic law. but let everyone know this: spain is a profoundly european country, committed to european values and european law. the spanish presidency will begin on 1 july. and many of us have given up all hope of expecting anything from the people's party except misinformation, sticks in the wheels and obstacles. but we will work tirelessly, no matter how much you may regret it, to make the spanish presidency the success that spain and the european union deserve.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. do you want more money to raise awareness of the values of the european union? i support this position because people should know what your values really are. value number one is double standards. you want to punish poland with sanctions because it has a politicised way of choosing judges. in poland, however, judges are elected in the same way as in spain or germany. but you can go there, but not here. value number two is racism. this is the reason for the famous opinion of the venice commission (which can be seen in this resolution), according to which the same solutions exist in different countries, but there are countries which can and those which cannot, and especially those countries with a higher culture and traditions. so, germany has a higher culture than poland? that's the classic definition of racism. value number three is contempt for the citizenry. you don't care what the majority thinks, because the majority of poles have already said what they think eight times. but you don't care because you despise them and you despise their opinion. value number four censorship. so, what about the rule of law in culture? it's in europe that you censor the books of agatha christie, roald dahl, and even karl may. value number five is the inversion of the terms. well, the most important thing is, according to you, the rights of minorities, which you understand as lgbtiq and so on. but the representatives of this option in this house have long been the majority and do not respect the rights of the real minority: the minority that believes in traditional family values, the right to life or the political right to hold various offices. so double standards, racism, censorship are not european values, it is communism and you are communism.
in writing. the report once again fails to present an objective picture of the rule of law in poland. the methodology used by the european commission in its preparation is incorrect. analysis of the sources indicates a lack of differentiation and preconceived notions. the commission presents a one-sided argument, an approach that indicates the political nature of the evaluation. poland has so far actively participated in the horizontal rule of law and the separate legislative debates at the general affairs council (gac). we have indicated the need to apply the same criteria for each of the ppas in accordance with the principle of equal treatment of ppas, and to apply the appropriate methodology by the ec (distinguishing the reporting elements from the evaluation elements, diversifying the sources and not drawing conclusions on the basis of pre-established assumptions). the report should take account of all points of view without formulating political judgments. in particular, the ec cannot apply double standards. the report shall not duplicate existing eu mechanisms. in this context, we note another instrument proposed unilaterally by the ec (without consulting the ec), namely recommendations. the commission's notice on the evaluation of the implementation of the recommendations of the previous report goes beyond the review principles agreed by the eu council (council conclusions of 16 december 2014).
in writing. – madam president, this is the eleventh time we are discussing the rule of law in malta this legislature. you, or rather others, might ask why it is being discussed again. simple: for your party, discussing the way the epp greek government spied on journalists and politicians is unacceptable. to soften down on greece, you decided to put malta in the spotlight, believing you could score points back home. madam president, i have always stated: what is right is right; what is wrong is wrong. all those given the honour and privilege to lead malta have done a lot of good, but there have been instances of shortcomings. in all humility, we have acknowledged any shortcomings and the labour government has worked tirelessly over the past years to right what was wrong. i’m not going to delve into the positive changes made, but will simply say that commission president von der leyen praised malta for being on the right track, the venice commission commended the changes and, in this very parliament in the libe committee, which i form part of, we have acknowledged the advances made and look forward to end the intense monitoring of the rule of law in malta.
in writing. the behaviour of this house yesterday when voting on the agenda was a caricature of itself and of democracy. it shows that the rule of law only matters to the left when the right is in power. when the left is in power, everything is allowed. in spain, the criminal law has been reformed to benefit the partners in the ruling coalition. the penalties for sex crimes have been reduced, 74 abusers are already on the street. the socialist-communist government has an unbridled desire to control everything in the long run, including the judiciary, by creating majorities in its favor in the courts. there is total interference in the judicial system, freedom, independence of judges and judicial police are being violated. the gender equality law puts women's rights at risk. in the canary islands and cantabria, cases of fraud involving european money are being investigated. how is it possible that the european commission is concerned only with hungary and poland? how is it possible that funds are blocked to these two countries while in spain embezzlement is considered a less serious crime? i call for a clear european policy without double standards.
in writing. a commitment to the rule of law is an essential part of the common values of the european union. the use of the rule of law procedure for political purposes, which has unfortunately been an integral part of the daily work of the european parliament for many years, is unacceptable and particularly damaging to the unity and stability of the union. the unlawful proceedings against hungary which have been going on for years have had a number of effects on the whole of hungarian society which are contrary to the common value of the union. as a result of the conditionality and rule of law debates, in the shadow of the economic difficulties caused by the covid pandemic and the horrors caused by the war in our neighbor, the european union is blackmailing our country by withholding money that is rightfully due to hungary. as a result, hungary may lose access to a number of resources and thus projects aimed at promoting social mobility, reaching out to the poorest sections of society and integrating members of the roma community. continuity of funding for programmes in our country is essential to overcome social disparities. by deciding to restrict our access to certain funds, they are doing serious damage to the promotion of social inclusion. we cannot allow the rule of law to be used as a tool of blackmail by the european parliament to exert political pressure. disagreements should be resolved as soon as possible, since both parties benefit from the resolution of problems. but until that happens, i can't support the report.
in writing. we socialists are firmly committed to the defence of the rule of law. we therefore call for the adoption as soon as possible of an interinstitutional agreement on the follow-up to the rule of law framework. at the same time, we regret that once again the spanish right and far right, with the help of the catalan independence campaigners, have forced a debate that does not exist to try to damage the image of their own country and, what is more regrettable, a few months before the spanish presidency of the council begins. what the popular party is trying to hide, besides the corruption they have been carrying for years, is that they have been blocking the renewal of the general council of the judicial power for five years and therefore refusing to comply with the law.
in writing. the union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. these values are common to the member states in a society based on pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men. our foundation is a state of law that respects the principles of freedom and democracy. in recent months i have observed, also in the work of the european parliament, a certain relaxation in the approach to article 2 of the eu treaty. we have begun to deal with more cases of countries where certain elements of our values are being violated, and we are losing sight of my country, whose government has been violating not only the foundations of the common european home but also the ground on which this house is built for eight years. that's how we're getting rid of the rule of law. what was suggested eight years ago, said in a veiled manner, is now being introduced into the public debate. polexit is increasingly appearing as part of the polish far-right agenda. the government in warsaw does not care about the recommendations of the european parliament, disregards the judgments of the court of justice of the european union and mocks the decisions of the european commission, poland is subject to further sanctions. if we ignore what is happening in poland, if we ignore the organized and methodical violation of european values by the pis government, then we ignore europe and its future.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr. president ! i think everyone would agree that we need to save our planet's forests and intensify efforts to preserve biodiversity. but we cannot take any hasty action that is not backed up by a properly prepared impact assessment, especially of the financial impact. i am referring to the extension of the scope of the regulation to rubber and rubber products, which will increase the administrative costs for the competent state authorities. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the impact of the regulation on the union industry. i therefore call on the commission to make it a priority to maintain the union's position as a world leader in exports of food and timber. this is the reason for the state of our agri-food and forestry sectors. i would also like to stress that when we introduce new legislation we must pay particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises. they will have to face challenges in the form of new administrative burdens. that is why we should monitor the markets carefully in the first years of the new law. i believe that the negotiated agreement, while far from ideal, deserves our support in the vote.
blue-card speech. – mr president, i have a small question only. my question is that whether eu farming organisations accept this regulation, you know this problem, that what situation is between agricultural organisations, they accept or not accept this regulation?
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the primary objective of cbam was to prevent emissions leakage. this is the term used to describe the relocation of companies from the european union to third countries because of the strict environmental requirements, mainly related to the price of co2 emissions. unfortunately, the legislative work in the european parliament has, as usual, turned this mechanism into a climate weapon. instead of being the regulator of the economy as it was originally intended , cbam has become another tool to punish industry for production. as rapporteur for the itre commission, i have stressed the need to maintain free ets allowances for a longer period. cbam is a new instrument and its rapid implementation is known to cause many problems for european industry. the extreme demands for the rapid withdrawal of free allowances in parliament's final text were somewhat tempered in the trilogue. yet the text is still very unrealistic. i am concerned about the higher costs for companies in the sector covered by this mechanism. these costs are ultimately borne by consumers. in addition, the cbam may disproportionately affect smaller companies and those operating in less economically developed regions, potentially leading to job losses and economic difficulties. if we do not take care of european industry, the cbam will not protect it and will remain, i fear, a naive instrument of doubtful effectiveness.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you get away with this. europeans have been funded for a very expensive energy transition. and i think we all realize that, especially at this moment, when there is a serious crisis caused by the war in ukraine, to rush and create a story that the sooner the better for europeans, is a mistake. because it's more expensive, first of all. the costs of this transformation will be borne by europeans. so it was necessary to create a social fund to help, to support businesses, to support households. but who's gonna pay for the fund? the europeans will pay. because while the very idea of creating such a body is acceptable, and there is a real need for it, the principles of its financing are questionable. because this fund is to be created primarily from the new financial resources of the european union itself. it is also to be created from new own resources created on the basis of the ets. what does that mean, "i'm not"? this means that those europeans who are supposed to be supported by this fund will actually be contributing to it. and now we can ask the question: is this proposal that's been put forward here a good proposal? as i say, the very idea of financial support, once the decision has been made to accelerate the transformation, is needed, but certainly not on the basis of the principles proposed here.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! today we are discussing the key elements of the 'fit for 55' package, which sets out european climate law. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their very hard work and, in my opinion, for the success they have had. climate change is coming. no one can argue with that. we all pay for it with our health and we put our children's future at risk. millions of people are demanding swift and effective action. it is important to emphasise and ensure that the green transition is for the people and not against them. economic recovery from the covid-19 pandemic is an opportunity to channel funds to progressive, green and highly efficient technologies. those who want to do more must be rewarded and given the necessary resources to achieve their ambitious goals. this becomes critical for mining and high emission areas. it is our duty to ensure that these regions are reoriented, that jobs are protected and that new ones are created by creating zero-emission industries in these regions. it is our responsibility to ensure that the green transition is carried out in a fair, socially fair and inclusive way. to ensure europe's prosperity for decades to come, we should provide the necessary investment for industry and support for the most vulnerable through instruments such as the just transition fund, the social climate fund and, for countries such as poland, through an increased modernisation fund.
mr. chairman, please! the extension of the european emissions trading system to new sectors, planned for 2027, will have negative social consequences due to the increase in fuel prices and the fees associated with heating homes with fossil fuels. obviously, these records will hit countries like my country, poland, hardest, where a very large proportion of the population still heats their homes with coal or gas and where the number of electric cars in use remains small. by 2027, not everyone will be able to replace their heating with a heat pump or photovoltaics, because not everyone will be able to afford it. this will create further costs for our citizens who are already struggling with the energy crisis, high commodity prices and inflation. listening to this debate, i have the impression that not everyone realizes this, and that i, unfortunately, and my countrymen are dead.
in writing. the crisis caused by the war in ukraine has exacerbated the plight of eu citizens due to the sharp rise in energy prices. the 'fit for 55' package is also a significant burden on society, setting unrealistic targets and ambitions and having a significant impact on member states' energy mix. the negative assessment of the entire 'fit for 55' package is also justified by the fact that the vast majority of the proceedings are based on an erroneous legal basis, which creates a dangerous precedent. in this context, the initiative to establish a social climate fund as an instrument to address energy poverty should be welcomed. however, the essential objective of the establishment of the social climate fund is only to mitigate the impact of new greenhouse gas emission fees on prices that will increase as a result of the extension of the european emissions trading system (eu ets) to buildings and road transport. this scope and the direct linkage of the fund to the establishment of a new ets covering emissions from buildings and transport ets2/brt (buildings and road transport) is inappropriate. the fund must be considered as a whole, with the other elements of 'fit for 55' and the burdens it entails. this aspect should be assessed in a negative way. the new fund is needed to tackle energy poverty and the social consequences of existing eu climate policy instruments, irrespective of the ets extension.
i thank you very much, mr tertsch. i was expecting mr verhofstadt in particular to cry out again: 'it is not fair!' i've been keeping a very accurate record of when and who i've interrupted today. i have given the chairmen of the political groups - and all the speakers - as much time as they have spoken, contrary to my own belief. i didn't interrupt anyone. i usually interrupt after five seconds, and mr tertsch, we can go over the minutes. i wrote it down exactly. 31 seconds, but red, yes, but red. i'm sorry, sir, i wrote it down. now, let's look for the conflict with the people who talk all the time. i let it run in the first round, and some of them took advantage of it, some of them didn't. in the second round, and we are in the second round, mr tertsch, i have asked mrs juknevičienė ... (interruption)
(in response to off-mic remarks by mr verhofstadt) all parliamentarians are equal! excuse me, mr verhofstadt, at the time you have been a group leader. you have sufficiently profited, and took the benefit of the first round – in extensio. when i try to make the difference not too harsh, then i reduce the speaking times, not to exceed. we have 34 minutes delay. i can show you. i took my minutes. we can go to the records.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the often described triangle of relations with china continues to apply: partner, competitor and increasingly systemic rival. i think we should regulate economic relations with china within the framework of a functioning wto if the bilateral agreement is not finally concluded. in any case, all parties must abide by the relevant rules. at the same time, we must ensure that unilateral dependencies on sensitive raw materials and products are reduced. it's not about disengagement. the interdependence is too great for that. and this aspect of reciprocity should make pragmatists in the communist party apparatus realistic about the risks of a confrontational policy towards us, but also towards their neighbours to the east and south and particularly towards taiwan. our message must be clear: no unilateral, violent change in the status quo with respect to taiwan. xi jinping must come to the assessment that the risks and consequences of a violent approach to taiwan are too great and incalculable. and it is true that we as europeans must define our interests together - also vis-à-vis china - and it is true that we do not have identical interests with the united states on all issues - we cannot take a thin line on issues of war and peace and fundamental values and say: if taiwan is attacked, it is a matter for the united states alone, and we will do business as usual. we must act together as a preventive measure to avoid the worst case. this requires a continuous dialogue between all stakeholders and china. the best way to do this is to have a unified message, mr president.
mr president, vice—presidents, it is obvious that the eu needs a coherent strategy for its relations with china, as recent talks in beijing are simply another proof of that. even if we rightly revisit our perception of china and try to defend our policy objectives it may all be for nothing when some leaders think that they have more rights than others in setting the course of our common foreign policy. regardless of the final list of objectives, it was, is and always will be true that the union, speaking with one voice in the international area arena, may achieve a lot. divided it becomes a bystander in world politics. what should we expect of our relations with china? first and foremost, pragmatism based on a couple of simple facts. first, china is not our friend and ally who will play by our book of rules. as it believes that power is more important than business, it will not shy away from using subsidies and coercive actions, for example, to achieve its goals. we have to be ready to respond to that. second, china demands respect from the world. we should be ready to pay it, provided we make it clear to beijing that it will not come at a cost to our core values. we will also remain engaged in asian politics in order to guarantee peace and prosperity for all our partners. we should support the development of our mutual trade, but at the same time create a working roadmap on decreasing our overall reliance on china in various sectors. finally, beijing should not assume we will abandon our transatlantic relation with the us. even if washington sometimes acts like an irritating relative at the christmas table, america will always remain a part of our democratic family. what we should in turn communicate to china is that we will not become a balancer in its rivalry with the us. instead, we should declare and pursue an independent policy agenda which will ultimately only serve european interests and the global rules—based order. achieving this autonomous position will be a final stress test for the concept of eu open strategic autonomy.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that our policy on china is, in fact, quite clear. to collaborate where possible, to compete where needed and to confront where necessary. we need to make ourselves a little less dependent on china. we need to make ourselves more self-reliant on defence. basically, the policy can continue indefinitely for mutual benefit. but we have two red lines: don’t arm russia; don’t attack taiwan. if you arm russia, we will have a trade war. if you attack taiwan, then, despite what some say or wish, we would eventually come down on the side of our ally, the united states. therefore, i have a piece of advice and a plea. don’t repeat russia’s catastrophic mistake. instead, help her get out of it.
mr president, mr borrell, i have to tell you one thing. i was pleased that you got covid. i was pleased that you got covid a few days ago and that you didn’t go to china because it only add more cacophony to the positions of europe on china. so very well that you stay at home. but i have a request you: it’s your task to come forward now with a new strategic paper. you know, the strategic paper on china dates from 2016. 2016! i know! then we added we actualised the paper of 2016, mr bütikofer, in 2019. and then in the meanwhile, what happened, is everything what happened in hong kong, because everybody is talking about ukraine, but things changed fundamentally when? at the moment of hong kong, because the consensus worldwide was ‘one china, two systems’. and if china doesn’t accept any more two systems, why we should accept one china? it is the one or the other. so my plea to you is to come forward as fast as possible in the three months from coming with a new communications strategy paper on china, sending it to the council, sending it to the european parliament, and to define this new strategy, as fast as possible. that is what we need to do.
mr president, commissioners, i would like to thank you for your cooperation. president macron signed the agreement in china and spoke of europe's strategic autonomy. meanwhile, you've been building europe's strategic autonomy for years with russia against poland. and in the moment of crisis and the outbreak of war, you left europe helpless, helpless militarily, energetically and economically, weaker and weaker. and today, president macron is going to china and he's talking more of the same and about pushing the united states out of europe. i wonder what europe, and ukraine in particular, would do without the united states and poland. it would have fallen long ago, and it would have been left with your pathetic helmets and energy-saving light bulbs that the ukrainians could at most throw at the russians. and, of course, long tables with putin. and i no longer count on the reflection of germany or france, on their ideas and egoism of autonomy. the idea of european autonomy has cost the continent too much on many occasions. i appeal to you, the leaders of central and eastern europe: if you do not wake up, the chinese and the russians will soon organize autonomy for you.
in writing. "china exists, that's the reality", french president de gaulle once said. i wish that simple statement would not be considered blasphemy today. europe should pursue its own interests, namely to create opportunities for our companies and help them become more competitive. this is the only way to maintain the european social market economy, the welfare state. europe is an open economy, the second largest trading power in the world. it's not in your best interest to divide the world into good and bad. you don't have to look at who our potential enemies are, you have to look at who our potential partners are. that doesn't mean we recognize china as a democracy. we're just respecting the realities, because as of 2021, they're our largest trading partner, with a turnover of over 2.3 billion euros a day. our renewable and high-tech industry would not survive without chinese raw materials, and it is impossible to replace them quickly with other sources of supply. instead of breaking away from china, we should be thinking about how we can balance our highly deficit trade balance. that is what the investment protection agreement would have served. the commission, which would otherwise have had to deal with this, welcomed it and now considers it to be economically unfavourable. why would i do that? we should pursue a pragmatic, ideology-free policy towards china, focused on the interests of european companies, because this is in europe's interest.
in writing. the european union must make clear whether it takes the view that there is a single china and that the representative of the chinese people is the people's republic of china with its capital in beijing, and recognises taiwan as the territory of the prc, with all the international legal consequences of this. this is the position of all eu countries separately. for the prc, this is a matter of principle, so the ambiguity, the suggestion that the official position is one thing and the practice is another, is crucial for bilateral relations. if we do not decide as a community to recognise taiwan's independence, then we should stop all these irresponsible statements, both as a community and as individual member states. on such important issues, there should be no individual tours suggesting that president macron represents the entire european union. because that's what the chinese and russian propaganda says. what is most important in our relations with china is the primacy of a pragmatic economic policy pursued under the slogan of both the openness of the eu market and the openness of the chinese market. every barrier to our goods should be met with a barrier, every market opening with a barrier. the eu's economic policy on this issue should be as far away from political turmoil as possible, until, of course, china threatens another country, invades another country, violates the principles of international law. a state whose personality is recognised by the european union.
mr. chairman, please! i'm not going to let you get away with this. the development of renewable energy sources in some countries of the union is leading to a decline in the power of the utilities and the development of energy storage systems is becoming more challenging. despite the many technologies currently available, the potential for development lies primarily in batteries and electricity storage. the key to their creation is the import of raw materials from outside the european union, often from countries with a high degree of political risk. in the european union, less than 3% of critical raw materials are so far extracted. the creation of security of supply and resilience of raw materials and the development of recycling and processing are very important issues. we talked recently in the itre committee about looking at where we have critical raw materials and rare earths in europe, and thinking about how we can meet the demand for these raw materials also from the european union. so the question is: why are we taking legal action that deprives us in europe of the skills to mine, to extract these resources, when the independence of the european climate policy agenda is linked to the security of the supply of resources? and one of the things we're discussing right now is a piece of legislation, which is the metals ordinance, which is closing our mining capabilities.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, strengthening energy independence, speeding up the transition to renewable energy and investing in the storage of sources are at the heart of the european union's strategy. the aim is certainly to ensure greater independence from third country supplies in order to avoid, as happened after the outbreak of the russian-ukrainian conflict, putting the resilience of our system to the test. in 2021 alone, we imported 83% of our natural gas, but europe was able to respond quickly and appropriately to the crisis by diversifying supplier countries, reducing its dependence on russia by almost 30% in a single year. the introduction of the price cap, which put an end to the large price fluctuations, was also a good thing. we need a common european strategy, including from an energy point of view. we must act as a single purchasing centre, and thus have a much greater bargaining power to help households and businesses keep the price of their electricity bills down. if individual member states act independently, there is a disparity in the internal market. that requires a single, strong action at the same time. europe must work to build a common, integrated and modern energy policy, which is secure and capable of achieving independence in the energy mix within a few years.
i'm not going to let you down. the development of energy infrastructure is crucial to the challenges we face today. we must be fully prepared both to fight for our climate and to be prepared to build energy independence. the union's efforts on energy storage are a step in the right direction, but concrete measures for member states on renewable energy and energy storage must come from brussels. because to reach net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, we need to be able to store six times more energy in europe than we do today. this is a huge infrastructure challenge. let's fight for our environment, but let's fight for it smartly. we can't throw out the baby with the bathtub, like a harmful metal regulation. let's fight for our environment, but let's fight for it wisely, i say again. and i am calling for a sound eu information policy on this issue, because the populists, unfortunately, love disinformation, as does the kremlin.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. minister! i'm not going to let you do this. i am very pleased that this debate is so universal that it focuses on the whole transport sector, and in particular on the situation of workers, and in particular of workers from third countries. why is it important for me as a pole and for all poles how drivers are treated (whether they are georgians, uzbeks or citizens of other countries)? we know what it's like to be treated badly in the job market. we used to go this way. that is why it is very important for us, for poland, to strictly comply with all the provisions of the law, both national and eu law. this is a problem that many multinational companies face. we're not going to be talking about them here today because the problem is global. let this strike which is ongoing and is so emotional because there are things happening that are unacceptable, i.e. the workers have not been paid (of course, this is all being verified), the work of those people who are far from their homelands has been stolen there will be a debate in which we will actually say how to effectively implement the mobility package, which is the responsibility as you said of the client, and therefore the responsibility of the shipper to check whether the wages of the drivers are paid. we're dealing with powers, with companies that can enforce that. thank you for this discussion. and i think, commissioner, that the conclusions will be general, with benefits for mobile workers, posted workers.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. both the hybrid war in ukraine, the criminals of putin, the criminals of lukashenka, and the covid-19 pandemic have shown the whole world the necessity and the need to increase security in the digital world. societies are using the internet far more than ever before, mainly for professional and personal contacts. this situation is exploited by cybercriminals, both those at the level of terrorist states and everyday criminals, who exploit and pose a serious threat to the internal security of individual states and their citizens, as well as to the internal security of the european union itself. cybercriminals have focused their activities in particular on e-commerce services and electronic payments, as well as on healthcare systems. in turn, state-level criminals such as russia focus their attention primarily on threats to critical infrastructure. it is therefore appropriate to strengthen cyber resilience, to improve the eu's response framework to large-scale incidents, but it is also important not to duplicate structures but to improve those that already exist. strengthening cyber competence is very important, but - i repeat - it is crucial not to duplicate what is already being done, and therefore it is very important to know how to link and ensure interoperability between the civil and defence sectors. the european competence centre in bucharest should play a key role here, especially in the distribution of the cybersecurity fund. finally, and this is the most important point in my view, cybersecurity crisis management should respect and take into account the competences of the member states.
mr. chairman, please! the european year of youth 2022 is a demonstration of the european union's commitment to young people and future generations. our work with young people did not end on 31 december. we have to use the long-term legacy of the year and in this context i would like to ask the commissioner the following question: has the commission already carried out an analysis of the participation and expectations of young people on the basis of the recent research that has been carried out among youth organisations? if so, what were the results of this study and does the commission envisage synergies with this year's european year of skills, which also concerns young people? and if so, are there any specific actions planned?
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! there's a natural order of things: first we have children that we take care of, that we raise, then we educate children, teach them responsibility, then they get skills in the education process, then they get jobs, and then they start families. it's just the natural order of human life. do you not feel, commissioner, that sometimes in the european union we disturb this natural order of life by pushing anti-values, by giving very bad examples, by denying human nature. i think it's worth thinking about, because life is quite demanding and difficult. when we want to talk about our children's successes, we also need to teach them about effort. the question is, do you see any attempt to disrupt the natural order of the young?
the committee on constitutional affairs has adopted a report on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the european parliament and of the council against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. mr president, when we are discussing the budget, we cannot make the mistake of limiting our analysis to figures alone, because the figures in a budget indicate political will and must then be implemented in legislation. i therefore believe that the budgetary and legislative functions of this parliament must be more harmonized and more consistent in order to be more credible. it is essential that our budget be commensurate with the objectives to be achieved, the ambition of which depends very much on the resources available. we shall be voting for a new parliament next year and i believe that it is essential to have a proper and well-structured budget in order to achieve the many different objectives, some of which are perhaps overly ambitious, but above all to be able to express the real strength that europe represents in its history of freedom and democracy. we need a budget which responds to the concerns and demands which the citizens expressed to us at the conference on the future of europe, stressing that they want more europe, but a different, closer and more concrete europe.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. – mr president, first of all, congratulations janusz for your work – excellent. i have been involved in the works of the budgetary procedure for a few years, and now i must say that from the position of the femm committee, it resembles ‘groundhog day’. we repeatedly called for the citizens, equality, rights and values programme to include separate gender-related budget lines, with no success. we called for the daphne programme resources to increase the special budget for gender-related issues, but with no success. we continued to call for the connection between attacks on the rule of law and worrisome backlash against gender equality and women’s rights in the eu, and attacks on lgbti+ people will be connected to the budget issues, without success. and what’s most important, we repeatedly call for gender equality perspective to be fully integrated into all policy areas, at all stages of the budgetary process. yet, the european court of auditors found again that gender mainstreaming is the least successfully implemented overarching policy priority, again and again and again, without success.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. there is no doubt that the 2024 budget is another, second budget related to the war that is going on in ukraine and concerns the european union. we think this war case should have its place in the budget, and it does. it's important that we notice these references in the budget, although we know and we see that there are certain expenditures in the budget that in wartime, in difficult times, might not have been made. the second issue is the possible revision of the multiannual financial framework, which is important to us. we'll see what we can do and what we can't do, but if that review happens, we'll certainly be supporting the ecr in spending on agriculture, food security and border security. this is our permanent position. and thirdly, we naturally support the commissioner's proposal and thank him for taking into account the proposals relating to the increased importance of cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy. we also support mr lewandowski, who prepared this material. we think the connecting europe programme is very important. we also appreciate the agricultural expenditure. the ecr is very truthful. but i want to leave you with this difficult question that sometimes comes up here, that we want to close europe by building some kind of fence. i have a few objections and comments: why can't we support the security of the entire european union at its borders? the finns will build a wall or a fence for the safety of finland. the poles have a fence with belarus. we have 13 road and rail crossings with belarus and anyone can come to poland. seven million ukrainians came from ukraine and had no problem coming. we are not against security, we are for security. we are against bandits who might want to come to the union. so i ask that you keep this in mind in the future.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! the case is simple: either europe will follow the example of australia and no one who crosses the border illegally will be able to apply for asylum, or europe will cease to exist, ladies and gentlemen, if we put a sign of equality between the refugee, who really needs help, and the illegal migrant. if we put an equal sign between ngos and smugglers and attack governments, as italy is attacked today in this house and poland was attacked once, europe will cease to exist. i once attended a meeting with the moroccan minister of the interior as minister of the interior. he said it plainly: this is an invasion. and you can tell your uncreated stories here, very cleverly, but there's no alternative. we have to decide whether we protect the external borders or open the door wide and be putin's useful idiots. putin, in an attempt to destabilize europe on the eve of the war in ukraine, tried to push hundreds of thousands of illegal migrants into poland, whom he brought with lukashenka to belarus. you attacked poland. what if poland had given in? what if italy had given in today? either we protect the external borders, or the european union will cease to exist.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. the rapid deployment team, or rdc, should build on the existing concept of eu battle groups and on the forces themselves, on the contributions of the member states to the eu battle groups. this also applies to planning scenarios. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact assessment is carried out in a transparent manner. the drc should be complementary to nato forces, which will allow us to avoid duplication of effort. and it's worth noting here that nato is and will long remain the main subject of any military response. more specifically, the following considerations should be taken into account: first, most member states must give priority to deterring and defending nato in view of the russian military threat. secondly, it is necessary to avoid creating scenarios for which member states are not physically or politically ready. third, the proposal to create a european rapid deployment capability lacks an overarching strategy combining important aspects such as governance, development cooperation, rule of law, security, defence and economic development, among others. fourth, the european rapid deployment capability should be a tool for policy-makers based on unanimity. fifth, the european rapid deployment potential should not mean an increase in funding. and sixth, and finally, one of the priorities should be to make operations, systems and other capabilities compatible with nato.
madam president, the borrell proposal is dangerous. it calls for the european union's rapid reaction teams to be converted into a so-called rapid deployment capability of the european union military forces, initially to be up to 5,000 soldiers. this is a broader and faster involvement in the escalating imperialist war in ukraine and other military operations, with the activation of article 44 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which does not require unanimity in the council, so-called military mobility ii is being pushed forward, with the aim of large-scale movements of military forces throughout the european union, with or without nato, as part of the so-called autonomy strategy. in any case, their aim is to shield the bourgeois political system against the enemy people. the involvement of greece in the euro-atlantic plans is becoming increasingly dangerous and only with a much stronger kke can the people with their struggle put obstacles to the imperialist plans that all the parties that have governed are promoting to their detriment.
madam president, commissioner, the eu rapid deployment capacity is one of the most important commitments presented as a part of the strategic compass in march last year. after our experiences in afghanistan, it was clear that there is a need for eu capacity for crisis response in various operational scenarios, including evacuation, initial entry and phased stabilisation operations. this flagship initiative will offer a quick and effective response to the immediate crisis. we need to ensure that this new capacity is designed to reflect the new geopolitical context with its permanent operational headquarters, adequate funding, personnel, infrastructure and integrated secure communications. in that regard, i welcome the findings of the first annual progress report on the implementation of the strategic compass that stated that the conceptual development of the rapid deployment capacity has progressed. once operational, it will allow us not only to be a stronger ally within our eu-nato cooperation framework, but it will also be an important step towards becoming a real and a credible actor in the world.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. europe is writing its new history today. finland has joined nato, and sweden will soon join. the union is financing arms purchases for a bravely defending ukraine. we are stronger in europe because we see that only by acting together, decisively, can we do more. we're not allowed to change course. we must strengthen this course - strengthen it through closer cooperation with the united states, but also through stronger integration of the european union itself. in the face of the imperialist policies of russia and china, but also the possible isolationism of america, if donald trump comes back to power, we must create a strong european federation of states. the establishment of a union rapid deployment capability is a step in the right direction. the union must have the tools to respond to crises. we must not commit the sin of omission. it is our duty to think about the future and to build a european army. we also need a common foreign and defence policy. it's the only way we'll be more integrated and just safer. let us use this difficult moment in history to build a stronger european union.
mr. chairman, please! russia's aggression against ukraine is accompanied by numerous war crimes. the most shameful are: kidnapping, deportation of children and their russification. poland knows this from its experience of world war ii and the german occupation. that is why we have taken the initiative together with the commission. what should be done? to continue with the judgments of the court, to identify the perpetrators, the people, the institutions, and so on, to ensure the access and presence in russia of the international red cross, doctors without borders and, above all, unicef, which can provide us with information about the situation of these children. and finally, the issue of children must be included in the 11th package of sanctions against russia.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. russia is consistently pursuing its plan to nationalize ukrainians, targeting the most vulnerable group children, often so young they are unaware of their situation. they are stripped of their ukrainian citizenship, have difficulty in communicating with their loved ones, are introduced to russian culture and have no sense of belonging to ukraine. official figures say 16,000 deported, but in reality, hundreds of thousands of children may be affected. russia is portraying this shameful act as a rescue or even salvation of ukrainian children, when in reality it is committing an international crime against the entire ukrainian nation on another level, targeting the future of the entire nation. the international criminal court has investigated the case and issued two arrest warrants in connection with the deportation of ukrainian children, but their execution depends on international cooperation.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. ladies and gentlemen! the mass abduction of ukrainian children by the russians for deception is reminiscent of what happened in poland during world war ii. thousands of polish children were taken by the germans, by the occupier, and given to german families for germanization. now the russians are trying to russify ukrainian children. and it's good that the international criminal court has stood up to this and indicted putin and issued an international warrant for his arrest. but we all have to be consistent. on the one hand, we have to help and rescue these ukrainian children and do everything we can to get them back to their families. and here i join in what minister waszczykowski said: all international organizations that can help bring these children back to their families safe and sound must be strongly involved. but on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be that attempts are being made to whitewash putin or to walk away from this in order to consider him a criminal. what is happening to russian athletes, for example, who are allowed to compete internationally is a scandal and we should also oppose it.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! children are not spoils of war. what is the reality? more than 16,000 ukrainian children from russian-occupied territories have been deported. just over 300 have returned home. "the devastating impact of putin's war on ukrainian children will be felt for generations", the us state department said in a statement. we are witnessing the russification of the ukrainian people. article 8 of the convention on the rights of the child has been violated, which states, among other things, that a child has the right to preserve his identity, including citizenship, name, and family relations in accordance with the law, excluding unlawful interference. the polish state has repeatedly called for the international criminal court to address the issue of war crimes in ukraine. therefore, his decision to order the arrest of president putin can be summed up in one word: finally! children are deported, taken from their parents. the situation is dramatic. we must support the ukrainian people. i hope that concrete action will follow these decisions as soon as possible, because without action, ladies and gentlemen, decisions are ineffective and empty.
mr. president, i have to go. crimes against children are the worst and most serious crimes, and they are committed under the guise of good faith. the putin regime is committing the worst crimes against the ukrainian people, and it is lying and deceiving its own people. there must be a punishment for this. if it's not in sight today, it must be tomorrow. and tomorrow, that's what's going to happen. my heart goes out to the ukrainians, to the mothers and fathers of the children who were taken. and my support goes to all those russian dissidents who are resisting the putin regime and fighting for the truth at the cost of their lives. russia's vast natural resources are used by the putin regime for its own needs, for large quantities of lethal weapons and for the luxurious lives of its supporters. what about the russian people? i wish that the russian people would also be liberated and become part of the family of european nations.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for the discussion on this extremely painful and urgent matter. and thank all of you who said that this is our common moral obligation to do everything to help ukrainian children to come back home. the practice of illegally and forcibly deporting or transferring ukrainian children to russian territory is a violation of international law and has affected tens of thousands of ukrainian children. the issuance of arrest warrants against the russian president and commissioner for children’s rights is an important step towards ensuring accountability for those responsible for these horrendous acts. the eu will continue to support the international criminal court, the joint investigative teams and the ukrainian authorities in the investigation, prosecution and adjudication of this matter. it is also looking to develop other means of cooperation to ensure the children concerned are returned to their families and communities. and we will keep the parliament informed of the developments of the joint european commission—poland initiative aimed at the return of illegally deported or transferred ukrainian children. this is a terrible crime inflicting unimaginable suffering. and we will do everything in our power to ensure accountability and that these children are returned to where they belong.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, madam vice-president jourová, we can all agree on one thing: there must be no impunity for war crimes. when it comes to the arrest warrant that has been up for discussion today, it is clear that all countries that are party to the icc have an obligation to execute the warrant. therefore, as president von der leyen recently pointed out, and was also mentioned here in the plenary just now, this has indeed made the world a smaller place for vladimir putin. in the meantime, the eu institutions and member states will and must continue our efforts to ensure full accountability for war crimes and for the crime of aggression. sasha, the 12-year-old boy that i mentioned in my introductory remarks, was thankfully reunited with his mother thanks to human rights organisations. but not all of the unlawfully deported ukrainian children have been so lucky. for their sake, we must hold those responsible to account, and the children have to be brought home. thank you very much for arranging this very important debate and thank you for your attention.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
in writing. not so long ago, so many people were convinced that war, genocide, open armed conflict here in europe, especially on such a large scale, was something that had no right to happen. it is shocking that the worst scenarios we have known since world war ii are coming back, and one of them is the forced deportation of ukrainian children to russia. during world war ii, germany similarly tried to exterminate the polish nation by deporting thousands of children into germany, and now the russian aggressor is doing the same to ukrainian children. poland also remembers how polish children were russified when it occupied polish territory in the 18th century. this is not the first time russia has attacked and committed crimes while pretending to be a democratic and law-abiding country. the polish people have experienced these crimes, warned against them and still warns: there can be no tolerance for them, and crimes should be called by name, and the perpetrators and commanders should be pursued and held accountable for their deeds. we have to protect all children, including the children in the ukraine, that's obvious. since russia will stop at nothing to achieve its criminal goals, the international community must maximize all possible pressure to end this russian aggression as soon as possible and to help those who have been attacked, starting with the most vulnerable.
in writing. by announcing the arrest warrant for vladimir putin and maria lvova-byla, prosecutor khan confirmed what we have been saying for months in the european parliament thousands of ukrainian children are being illegally taken to russia by the russian aggressor. this is a systematic, planned separation of families by the russian regime, often by deception and under the guise of humanitarian aid. let's not get any ideas. the russian authorities know how to do this. since the days of tsarist russia, and later stalinist russia, the resettlement of entire national groups has been part of the plan of governing and managing the population. that's what putin does with his followers today. for months, many international organizations have been reporting that the deportation and so-called re-education of ukrainian children to russia and the occupied territories is the best documented crime against humanity committed by russia during the war in ukraine. and i hope that those responsible for these crimes will soon be brought before the international criminal court. but the most important thing right now is to coordinate help for ukrainian children and support the organizations and institutions that are working hard every day to bring ukrainian families together. it's a dangerous and multi-tasking job that often requires a lot of discretion. so i urge you to support them wisely, so as not to destroy that effort.
in writing. the numbers of missing children who have been abducted and are being held against their will in russia, often in remote parts of the country, and subjected to russification are alarming. desperate parents and relatives do everything they can to get their children back, but the data shows that only a few succeed. less than 400 of the tens of thousands of abducted children have returned home. i want to pay special attention to children who were orphaned or in the care of state institutions. we must not forget them. they too must return to their country when the war is over. the process of return will be made even more difficult by the change of nationality and identity of abducted children by the russian authorities. not all of them will remember their real names or where they came from. i agree that the main criminals responsible for the kidnappings are vladimir putin and maria lvova-belova. but they could not do it on their own. therefore, let us remember and hold accountable all those who in any way contributed to the kidnapping of children, actively participated in the process of changing personal data, transporting or russifying them.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. fellow workers! all agree: chemicals, substances harmful to man, to the soil, to the air, to the water, must be eliminated. but you have to make those changes, those evidence-based, science-based revisions, that don't have the opposite effect. so we need to think about at least three of the documents we're talking about here. first, the revision of the reach regulation, the revision of the water directive or the documents related to soils, with care for soils. and it's important to remember that these are chemicals that are actually everywhere. they're in cell phones, they're in contact lenses, they're in guitar strings, they're in dental floss, they're in makeup. i'm talking about it specifically to show the multiplicity, the multiplicity and the complexity, to also choose the means properly. second, let's trust the scientists, let's trust the researchers, let's trust the manufacturers, because they don't necessarily want to poison us, but they want to be part of the process. let's hear it for the community consultation. they are scheduled to be completed by the end of september or october this year. let's be reasonable. if we prepare the documents properly, maybe not immediately, but gradually we will eliminate the harmful substances.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! we've lived through the crisis and the crypto-asset crash and we've seen clearly what practices to prevent and what we had to pay special attention to. the industry's biggest scandal, the ftx crash, was the result of a long-running misrepresentation of the true value of the assets held. our mica regulation is the answer to this problem. it shall ensure internal control mechanisms, mandatory management reporting and effective segregation of client assets from supplier assets. i believe that the core values that must be protected are the free market, fair competition and the provision of reliable information to investors to enable them to make an informed decision. equal market opportunities also mean technological neutrality, which we have ensured in this regulation. i am strongly opposed to discriminating against certain crypto assets on the grounds of environmental concerns. there is too much hypocrisy and self-interest in these efforts to believe in the good intentions and selflessness of the communities pushing for such restrictions. as the representative of poland, a non-euro area country, i am particularly pleased that the interests of these member states have also been safeguarded. taking the views of central banks into account in the licensing process or maintaining national supervision of digital money that only works in a given country is a major achievement for me as a consultant and an important element of monetary independence. in conclusion, while i have serious doubts about the usefulness and necessity of many of the acts adopted in this parliament, i am convinced today that the work done on the mica regulation will serve the people of europe well.
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. i wanted to ask you this: i've noticed, from observing the cryptocurrency market, a lot of promotion, even propaganda, of the positives of the cryptocurrency market. the risks are poorly described. does this regulation that we're talking about say that there should be an obligation to report honestly about how the cryptocurrency market works?
mr. chairman, please! cryptocurrencies are a relatively new phenomenon in the financial market and are not yet sufficiently regulated in union legislation. it is time to create a framework for the issuance and provision of services related to crypto-assets that will foster innovation and fair competition, but above all ensure a high level of consumer protection. until now, it was a gray area, a financial jungle with the promise of quick profits, but in many cases, the profits were a mirage and evaporated as quickly as they had appeared. without strict information requirements, this market will remain nothing more than a promise land for various shrewd people who exploit the naivety and low awareness of consumers. i hope that the regulation will open a new chapter and give a chance to incorporate crypto assets into the european financial market for the benefit of all citizens of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! many countries are now exploring the possibility of introducing central bank digital currencies. some of them have already done it. the european central bank has announced that it will begin testing the digital euro this year. the digital euro is expected to be secure and provide a high level of privacy, but unlike cash, it does not allow for anonymity. digital currencies have long faced public criticism, stemming from concerns that by increasing the ability to control spending, they could lead to surveillance of citizens. they will also enable new forms of social control, at a time when we are facing diminishing human rights protection, including in the european union. the concern was justified by a recording of a conversation published earlier this month, in which european central bank president christine lagarde was tricked into saying she was talking to ukrainian president volodymyr zelensky. when the fake president pointed out that europeans are protesting against digital currencies because they don't want to be controlled, the president allowed herself to be frank and admitted that the digital euro will be used to control citizens and their spending more.
mr president, commissioner, david bowie once said that tomorrow belongs to those who can hear it coming. by working on the digital euro, we prove to act on these words. the digital euro will dramatically change how our financial system functions, but it may also increase our strategic autonomy in payments, strengthen the international role of the euro, and preserve the role of public money as a monetary anchor for the payment system. however, there are many questions to be answered in order to know where we are heading. number one: what is the added value of such currency and do we really believe that our citizens need it? number two: how will the commission and the ecb guarantee privacy for the users of the digital euro without allowing it to be a great treat for money launderers and fraudsters? number three: do we have the necessary robust and resilient infrastructure to support the widespread adoption of the digital euro? without it, this project might simply become a beautiful failure.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you get away with this. recently, the global public health debate has become a hot topic. on the one hand, i am a clear advocate of giving priority to global health through well-designed programmes funded by the european union budget, among others, such as the eu4health programme, 'horizon europe', the neighbourhood and international cooperation instrument and the instrument for pre-accession assistance. on the other hand, i believe that we still need to do more to build a strong partnership in health policy between the union and the rest of the world. actions should be considered to achieve greater synergies between the programmes implemented, so that the funds invested so far can be made even more effective. at the same time, the union, which remains the world's largest donor of international aid with €50 billion a year, still needs to respond actively to the internal public health problems of member states, especially when most eu economies are running deficits. i believe that the priorities of the strategy should be calibrated to support actions outside the eu but also within the eu, because the effect of improving global health security and ensuring better health must be a solidarity action. in our actions, let us do everything we can to ensure that the slogans of sustainable financing of the global health agenda actually contribute to protecting and improving the health of patients.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i think the pandemic has shown us all, politicians and above all citizens, patients, that the union can no longer be ashamed to turn a blind eye and - by being able to build roads and stadiums together, to run a common agricultural economy - to look calmly at how in one part of europe a patient with breast cancer has to die, and in another part of europe the same patient with the same breast cancer has a chance to survive. because there was no access to modern technology or modern medicine. this time has to end. and i think something has already happened, because since the european parliament has set up a special committee on cancer, and we have been involved in it, and a special report has been produced on the joint fight against cancer, that means we have made a step forward. in recent weeks, there has also been a key, historic moment in the european parliament. for the first time in the history of this institution, a special subcommittee on public health was established. tomorrow it will hold its first meeting, to which you are cordially invited, where we will meet tomorrow and begin our work together. i think the expectations are very high. 500 million people want a community that builds roads together, that builds agricultural policies together, to finally work together on cancer, health and life. we need to start with what we've already practiced in the pandemic. now that we've been able to buy vaccines together, negotiate prices, we need to start a process of buying cutting-edge medical technology together. to be accessible to the patient in the east and west, south and north. and we have to prevent drug shortages in europe, because that's something that we can't afford in the modern world. see you tomorrow, commissioner!
on behalf of the id group. mr president, let us be clear: when we talk about afghanistan, we are talking about an obscurantist regime. it is well known that afghanistan is an islamic emirate under the control of the taliban, who impose sharia law. the taliban are medieval islamists, who hold to religious dogmas from another time. this archaic and backward islam is incompatible with freedom of education and training because it denies more than 50% of the population - namely women - the right to live. if our parliament is to have a genuine debate on rights in this country, it must first of all recognize that the political and religious regime in afghanistan cannot and will not guarantee women's access to education and knowledge in the country. only 30% of afghan adults could read by 2022, which is twice as low as men. the worst part is that islamic courts impose corporal punishment and can even stone women accused of adultery. prepubescent girls are forced into marriage. why is parliament focusing on the situation of human rights defenders in this country, which is only the tip of a gigantic iceberg, the tip of a barbaric ideology, the opposite of all humanism? i refuse to lament the inequalities in access to education or otherwise in this country without first denouncing islamist ideology.
mr president, dear colleagues, dear commissioner, it has been only five months since our last debate on afghanistan. sadly, we must address this issue again since women’s persecution continues. it is a shame that women in afghanistan cannot basically travel without a male companion, but they are also denied the fundamental right to education beyond the primary level. i invite you to look into the painful testimonies of young afghan girls who, by their own words, feel ‘broken’ and ‘in pain’ as a result of these unjust restrictions. the recent arrest of matiullah wesa is just the tip of the iceberg. we call on afghanistan’s authorities to immediately and unconditionally release her and others imprisoned for exercising their fundamental rights. we urge the same authorities to fulfil their pledge and to restore girls’ access to education. moreover, we must maintain a strict conditional engagement with the taliban and comply with the benchmark set by our council, because women’s rights are human rights.
mr. chairman, please! it's often the case that those who have god on their lips actually have the devil in their hearts. these are the men who made hell on earth for their women, and they made afghanistan. because it is in this country that we see the end of the alliance between the throne and the altar: the denial of access to education, the spread of darkness and the persecution of activists working for education. it is also in this country that we see the final stage of arbitrary decision-making for women: restricted access to contraception, denied employment opportunities, forced marriage. in this land, you lose the race by being born a woman. from this place, i would like to express my deep respect and solidarity with the persecuted afghan women. i believe that there will come a time when they will be free from this nightmare. the state must be secular. the secular state is not the enemy of religion, but the alliance of power with the altar is always the enemy of freedom.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, since the taliban forcefully took power in afghanistan, they have structurally and systematically violated the economic, social and cultural, political and civil rights of the people of afghanistan, especially of women and girls. afghanistan is the only country in the world that prohibits education beyond primary level for girls. the taliban’s decisions on denying girls access to secondary and higher education are blatant violations of the fundamental right to education based on equal opportunity and enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights and several other international human rights treaties to which afghanistan is a state party. no religious or social reason could ever justify such unequal treatment. at a time when afghanistan is facing one of the worst economic and humanitarian crises in the world, the afghan people’s predicament is steadily made worse by the taliban, who deprive women and girls of their right to education, work and other opportunities to contribute to socio—economic life. the un estimates that since march 2022, 1.1 million girls have been deprived of secondary education as their schooling was banned. almost 4 million children are out of school in afghanistan, 60% of them girls. in certain provinces it is reported that the official curriculum is being replaced by religious education in madrassas and that forced marriages of girls have increased significantly. activists who are advocating for girls and boys education are being threatened, arrested, tortured, and many are being pushed to exile. the european union’s position is very clear. we remain committed to providing support for the afghan people as long as this can be continued in line with the eu’s principled approach, particularly the rights of women and girls. the eu will continue to call for, and exert pressure, to ensure that all afghan children – girls and boys alike – have the chance to learn. we will also continue to support afghan human rights activists and civil society as we do worldwide, reflecting a fundamental principle of the eu. this support increases raising individual cases of human rights defenders in our engagement with the de facto authorities and continuation of safe passage operations for those afghans particularly at risk. matiullah wesa is the head of penpath, a civil society organisation in afghanistan campaigning for the reopening of girls schools. he was detained on 27 march, when leaving a mosque in kabul, by a group of armed men who claim to represent the general directorate of intelligence of the taliban. his arrest was confirmed by taliban representatives on 29 march. the eu delegation in kabul has been in close contact with matiullah over the past months. he had visited brussels in december last year. education activist matiullah wesa remains in custody, among other afghan human rights defenders. you can rest assured that we are following, and we will be continuing to follow, his case very closely.
the debate is closed and the vote will be held tomorrow. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i was one of the most committed members of parliament to the situation of women in afghanistan, in a context where, it should be recalled, the european union and other donors continue to support that country indirectly, through humanitarian aid. the dramatic reduction in the fundamental rights of women, particularly in education and employment, is a matter of conscience for us. how can we react when the taliban now prevent women from working in non-governmental organisations, or more recently in the united nations? such restrictions mean that afghans too, and their children, may be deprived of this valuable humanitarian support. furthermore, by limiting women's education, particularly in university education, the future of entire generations is jeopardised. and the scandalous arrest of activist matiullah wesa shows that the taliban authorities have no intention of backing down on this issue. in short, it is urgent that the european union finally decide on its relations with afghanistan, as the situation of women continues to deteriorate.
the ecr group has notified the president of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees and delegations. these decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and take effect on the date of this announcement.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six motions for resolutions on repression in russia, in particular the cases of vladimir kara-murza and alexei navalny (2023/2657(rsp))*. _______________* see minutes.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. a russian pseudo-judge sentenced vladimir kara-murza to 25 years in a labor camp for telling the truth about putin's dictatorship and opposing russia's aggression against ukraine. i want to share in my voice the reaction of adam michnik, a polish intellectual and former dissident who was imprisoned for many years for his courage in fighting for a free and democratic poland. i quote part of his article in the gazeta wyborcza, especially deserved for the creation of such a poland: the putin regime is at war with independent ukraine. at the same time, the putin regime's war with the remnants of russian democracy is ongoing. this war of the dictatorship against russian freedom has a traumatic course, but this free russia exists. russia of sakharov and kowalov, russia of khodorkovsky, navalny, yashin or kara-murza. all of them paid a high price for their disagreement with the imperial dictatorship and their opposition to conformism. sakharov condemned the russian aggression in afghanistan, kowalov condemned the bloody war in chechnya, nemtsov condemned putin's aggression in crimea and donbas, navalny, yashin and kara-murza condemned the bandit invasion of the putin regime in ukraine. kara-murza, who is accused of anti-russian activities, repeats that the real anti-russian activity is being carried out by putin, because he is pushing russia towards disaster. but he is a russian patriot because he wants freedom for his people. the kara-murza dispute with putin and his lackeys, who are creating a new totalitarian system in russia, is a conflict over the future of russia. and these, the best of the russians, who are fighting for ukraine's right to live in a sovereign state, today imprisoned and powerless, while ukraine is drowning in blood, are the hope for the future of ukraine, for the future of russia, for all of us. there'll be as much left of putin and his minions as there was of hitler and the whole nazi machine. so putin will remain the symbol of banditry, murder and looting. navalny and kara-murza will forever be the glory of our time.
madam president! vladimir kara-murza was sentenced to a draconian 25 years for calling putin a war criminal in the middle of europe. in his speech before putin's court, he said: "i was sure after two decades in russian politics, after everything i've seen, everything i've experienced, that nothing can surprise me anymore. i have to admit, i was wrong. and he goes on to say that the contempt for legal norms during his trial exceeded the standards of the soviet dissident trials of the 1960s and 1970s, and even the stalinist purges of the 1930s. it is good that today in the european parliament we are debating a resolution condemning putin's russia. but it is hard to ignore that until recently in this house and in many european countries, putin was seen as a statesman, a democrat, with whom one could do business and make the european union's energy security dependent on russian hydrocarbons. while late president lech kaczynski warned europe and the world in tbilisi against the russian tyrant, his voice in europe was deactivated. today we see that putin does not shy away from murdering his own citizens. and for many of you, the assassination of the polish president - all evidence now points to this - by putin was unbelievable. because putin is a democrat. no, putin is a criminal!
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: yes, we have the summaries of several ipcc reports, because these are not new studies, new studies are coming, as well as the search for new algorithms and ways to count and check how all this works. but because they're scientists, they should be taken very seriously, but they should also be taken seriously. first, to require education worldwide. because, in fact, the beneficiary of all the recommendations is the european union, and all the climate summits, although they very often become the vanity and emissions marketplaces, show who is responsible for those more than 100 years of the production cycle, the last 100 years of excess carbon dioxide emissions. and while the slogan is right: let's be united, let's share, let's not say that those who are not responsible for this must now be responsible. second, you have to read the reports in their entirety, not just pick and choose. for example, the whole section on absorption natural absorption, which was not supposed to be in the climate law. i remind you that it's actually been the last few hours that we've decided that we're talking about absorption, and we're talking about carbon capture. we already know the technologies, and we know the emotions of the people who are presenting these technologies. they'd like to build a system similar to ets. europeans, because the world is not living through this, because it is not participating in this, will not survive another system that they will have to finance themselves. so we need to make sure that the money for the capture, the absorption, the closed economy investments is either coming from the ets or replacing the ets.
mr. chairman, i'm listening to you, colleagues, and i'm a little surprised. i'm asking you because i don't understand. are you talking about this economy, are you talking about this continent, are you talking about the jobs of the people who elected you and pay your taxes? yes, urgent action is needed and it is needed to protect economies from your green utopia and green religion. just recently, in an absolutely inexplicable way in the midst of war, in the midst of crisis, germany shut down its last nuclear plants, emsland, isar 2 and neckarvestheim 2, and no longer produces electricity from nuclear energy. you rely on levers, you rely on panels, you rely on utopias, you keep stuffing ideology into people's heads, not economics. don't you understand that people work in this economy and they need this energy to have jobs and to pay taxes that pay your wages? yes, you've turned green into a religion, into a utopia, and this utopia is going to break up the european continent, send jobs to china, and what are you going to do? you'll be grazing the grass!
mr. chairman, the latest ipcc report is more damning than ever. there should therefore be no doubt that we must now take drastic action in all areas. just this week, we voted on the climate package from this green deal commission. congratulations are in order. but the commission has promised us much more: many more building blocks for the green transition, and it's lagging behind. our food system, which accounts for a third of climate emissions, is out of control. in fact, monocultures and mega-stalls receive billions in subsidies. fossil fertilizer is worth millions. not to mention the promotion campaigns for meat and dairy products. even the deforestation law has climate-damaging exceptions for corn and meat. will the commission, as promised, come forward with the framework law on sustainable food and will it finally include the necessary measures to tackle the climate catastrophe that is on our table?
mr president, commissioner, climate change is happening with greater force than we anticipated - extreme drought, fires. we actually talk about it every summer here in the european parliament. floods, sea level rise is even higher than expected. no one even denies the ongoing climate change, only some say that europe can do nothing, that we are dependent on china and the usa. i think we can't accept that logic. we have a responsibility to future generations and, in fact, to the planet. we don't have a replacement planet yet. the associated problems would have caught up with us anyway. migration, the dramatic situation in agriculture, food shortages, and i won't go into all the other possible problems. a good businessman will take reasonable precautions, minimize the damage as long as he can, and that's what the international panel is saying, actually. we have one last chance to make those changes. we should be proper house owners. the commission shall act responsibly in response to such warnings. but we also have to do our homework in our member states. there is a lot to be explained and a lot to be done to convince the public that this is the only way to go. and we also need to engage in the international arena and in diplomacy.
mr president, commissioner, the latest report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change sums up its message in three words: gravity, urgency and hope. the severity: we're on a path that could lead to a global temperature increase of over three degrees. the consequences in terms of food insecurity, drought and environmental migration should alarm us all. what 's the emergency ? to take action to drastically reduce emissions. the european union is doing just that, completing the adoption of the fit for 55 package to become the first continent to be zero emission by 2050. because it is no longer enough to say that we must take climate change seriously and then, also in this house, to oppose decisively any measure aimed at reducing emissions and limiting the use of fossil fuels. so, hope! we owe it to the girls and boys who beg us to act. the transition is underway and there is no turning back, as evidenced by the failure of the right wing in its attempt to block the green deal measures: the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the emissions of co2 from cars, buildings and, more recently, the ets for industrial emissions. to quote clément rosset, and i conclude, simply managing the existing would be to resign ourselves to our own decline. so, colleagues, let us look up and keep our ambition high.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. ladies and gentlemen! we're here today to discuss yet another report on climate change. this is one of those reports that comes out periodically by a bunch of paid scientists. each report is painfully similar and secondary, but each one shows one simple principle that no climate religionist wants to accept: none of the initiatives taken so far by the european union to reduce greenhouse gas emissions - initiatives that have consumed gigantic public subsidies and international funds - i repeat, none have improved the situation in terms of limiting climate warming, none have improved the quality, the biodiversity. why would you do that? because it is not the european union's political actions that will determine the climate of our planet, but the neglect of emitters like china, india and the middle east. by forcing member states to adopt a green revolution, we will not save the climate, but we will only destroy the competitiveness of our economies, leading to the impoverishment of our society and the global power of micro-corporations, which are already the biggest and, as reports confirm, the only beneficiaries of the green revolution in europe. once again, the european union has decided to push the supposedly very high-emission pharmaceutical industry out of the european union. what's the matter? the covid pandemic has made all of that very clear. the health and lives of european citizens have been endangered simply because someone has some outdated ideas. everyone wants to breathe clean air, that's true, but slow down, gentlemen, because otherwise europe will become a scandal and others will emit and strengthen their economies.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. regions with severe and persistent difficulties incur additional costs, which make them less competitive for enterprises and less attractive to new, large or medium-sized enterprises. the successive crises: economic, related to covid-19, energy, inflation, climate have deepened the backwardness of the least developed regions, regions in transition, the most remote regions, mountain, island, sparsely populated and rural regions. many regions of the european union are also at risk of falling into a development trap. therefore, in order to maintain cohesion, promote convergence and reduce regional disparities, while ensuring that territorial divisions are not exacerbated and the single market is not distorted by favouring the best-off member states and regions, i would like to ask how the commission will ensure that the principles of cohesion enshrined in articles 174 and 175 of the treaty on the functioning of the union are taken into account when reviewing the general block exemption regulation? does the commission support the idea of including in the de minimis rules additional provisions for the outermost regions, transitional regions and less-favoured regions, as recognised in articles 349 and 174 of the treaty or as laid down in the regulation on common rules?
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. i agree with you, i agree with everything you said. we do talk about transformation all the time in this parliament, and from time to time we have very large distortions of the eu market war, covid, etc. these are all things that the union must respond to. your country, romania, and my country, poland, are both affected by the problem of grain imports from ukraine. in this context, how do you see the european union's, the european commission's, reaction? because we are witnessing the tragedy of farmers in these countries, where grain was illegally imported.
mr. commissioner, mr. president, i have to go to the police. in europe, there is an independent european fiscal board. member states may, but need not, establish such bodies. i think that in the current reform we should strongly recommend to the countries that such an independent body should be established. in my country, poland, it would be very useful. and the second thing is the macroeconomic imbalances procedure. it was introduced to discuss primarily the trade imbalances. but today the most important imbalance is the inflationary imbalance. perhaps it would be worth raising this issue more vigorously and decisively in the context of the european semester, especially with regard to non-euro area countries.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! i'm not going to let you down. this brutal attack by putin on ukraine didn't just come out of nowhere. this is not an accident, it is the result of weakness and bad european policy, including german policy. we must therefore draw conclusions from this, conclusions which will not allow europe to be weak in the future. the list of grievances, the list of charges, can be long. poland, first line of argument for you, mr. chancellor: if ukraine needs weapons and money today, because only ukraine defeating russia can guarantee our security, then where are the leopards that the polish army was supposed to get for the supply of tanks to ukraine? you have to keep your promises. but you have a bigger problem because i haven't heard a german politician from left to right in this room who wouldn't make you a long list of charges today precisely because of your lack of decision-making. so i have one very simple appeal to you, mr chancellor. the future of europe is in our hands, you said so yourself. hard decisions are needed. if you don't want to take them, don't bother.
in writing. the debate in the european parliament this is europe on the future of the european union is important because the future must be looked after together, but necessarily with respect for this basic principle: the member states are equal! it is hard to believe that the chancellor of germany, in this place and on this occasion, is saying outright that the principle of unanimity must be abolished. the demand for the abolition of this rule in the most important areas of eu policy is understandably surprising and naturally opposed. these words are all the more surprising because they come from a politician whose country is largely responsible for many of the enormous problems that the entire community is now facing: germany pushed for the massive and uncritical opening of the community's borders, was deaf to the protests against the joint investments with russia in nord stream and nord stream ii, forgetting about the energy security not only of its own country but of the entire community. we're all feeling the effects of this now, paying several times more for gas and electricity. and despite the obviously wrong and short-sighted decisions - as the outbreak of war last year confirmed - the german chancellor is demanding even more power, even the ability to push decisions without the opinion of those states who think differently. that is not acceptable and will not be, and we will not support any attempt to turn the european union into a federation.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! on 15 november 2022, the court of auditors published its special annual report on joint undertakings in the form of a single consolidated report covering all joint undertakings. the court approved the 2021 financial statements of all joint undertakings of the european union and confirmed the positive results reported in previous years. i repeat the opinion of the european court of auditors on the positive results and shortcomings of internal control: in the course of the reporting we encountered problems related, among others, to the lack of clear rules on contributions to the eu pension scheme, the high turnover of staff and the lack of sound procedures for certifying and approving non-monetary contributions to certain joint undertakings. the reports shall be based on the following set of documents: the 2021 annual report on the joint undertakings of the european union for the financial year 2021, the european court of auditors, the individual report on the joint undertakings for budgetary and financial management, the individual annual activity reports of the joint undertakings or the individual annual financial report of the joint undertakings. i would now like to discuss the joint undertaking for a biotechnology europe based on the closed circuit (until 30 november 2021 the bioeconomy joint undertaking) for the financial year 2021. the payment rate for horizon 2020 was 71%, which was due to delays in the implementation of projects due to the covid-19 pandemic. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is consistent with the union's macro-financial assistance. the simplifications introduced by horizon 2020 and the experience of beneficiaries have had a positive impact on the reduction of errors. however, during the discharge procedure for 2020, attention was drawn to the persistence of systemic errors in the personnel costs declared by the beneficiaries. the joint undertaking shall therefore continue to work on improving its expenditure control strategies and participate in joint actions to improve the use of european union funds, in particular for specific categories of beneficiaries under the management of the 'horizon 2020' and 'horizon europe' programmes. at the end of 2021, a total of 11 risk types with varying degrees of materiality, convergence and interdependence were identified and described in the risk register. the analysis carried out in 2021 confirmed the trends of previous years and, thanks to the effectiveness of internal controls and the experience gained from the main actions, such as the planning of grants and the procedures and systems in horizon 2020, some additional risks have been eliminated or reduced. in the light of the comments on the 2020 discharge procedure, the joint undertaking shall inform the discharge authority on fraud risk management in its 2021 annual activity report. it also confirms that it continued to implement the recommendations and to inform olaf of the effective implementation of the recommendations of previous years. the joint undertaking will also be responsible for the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security and the union's policy on civil aviation security. firstly, a system error was detected and calculated, which consisted in incorrectly charging hourly rates for staff costs. in addition, in 2021, important documents such as contract evaluation reports, recruitment procedures and decisions on the award of contracts and employment contracts were validated by pasting an image of the signature of the competent official on the document in word and then converting the file to pdf format. this practice carries legal risks, as the person who has been rejected in the recruitment process may question the validity of the assessment documents. the joint undertaking has carried out a risk analysis and established a special ex post control exercise to cover some of the projects in the grant agreement for the joint undertaking's partners, which indicates a certain exposure to the covid-19 constraint described by the court of auditors, such as financial shortfalls, operational delays and high human costs compared to the average.
the rapporteur. ladies and gentlemen! it was a very interesting debate and i hope we can draw constructive conclusions from it. the most constructive conclusion - and i will refer to my previous statement here - would be to acknowledge that such strict political insertions into substantive, financial debates are not very sensible. in my view, the allegations in the discharge report to the european commission that eu funds are allegedly being used for anti-democratic activities and to strengthen authoritarianism, and the alleged application of the mechanism of conditionality and the rule of law to these allegations, are reprehensible. there are also provisions in the commission's discharge which we cannot agree with. this includes a proposal to extend the areas where edes (early detection and exclusion system) is applied beyond direct management and a call on the commission to apply it to all union funds, including funds under shared management. the question of the european council's participation, or rather lack of participation, in the annual discharge procedure which has been going on for years. the european council and the council do not participate in the annual discharge procedure, nor do they answer questions put by parliament. its representatives shall not attend the meetings of the cont committee. in accordance with article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the european parliament alone decides on the discharge to be given to the general budget of the union, and the budget of the european council and of the council is a section of the budget of the union.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. this is a really big day. it's days like this that make politics worthwhile. this is a good day for the european union and for all those who are fighting for a stronger community and a more integrated european union. last but not least, this is a great day for all women, european women, all those affected by domestic violence, but also for those who, thanks to the convention, we will be able to protect against violence. can there be anything more concrete for politicians to do? i am fully aware that the vote tomorrow on the accession of the entire european union to the istanbul convention is a matter of ordinary human decency. anyone who votes against the convention is in favor of tolerating domestic violence. this is a black and white situation, which is not often in politics. thanks to the istanbul convention, kremlin standards, such as that first-time domestic violence is not classified as violence, cannot exist. tolerating violence, turning a blind eye, sweeping it under the carpet is also evil. gender-based violence is the biggest unresolved problem in europe. one in three women in the union has experienced sexual or physical violence. the third, 62 million europeans. these figures speak for themselves. you don't have to comment on them. i guess this is the place to ask right-wing hypocrites what the value of a family is when a mother is being abused by a father. what religious good is more important than the life and health of a mother, wife or child? what kind of things? the istanbul convention is about health and safety, not politics. accession to the convention will bring the highest standards of protection against violence to european law. this will help the convention reach countries that have not yet done so. it will also become part of the legal order of hungary or slovakia. it will also reach countries like poland, where thousands of ukrainian women are arriving. women who have gone through a transition, who are vulnerable to further trauma. by adopting the convention in the union, we are opening up the eu's anti-violence umbrella to them. however, we must remember that full protection requires the individual accession of the other countries. and we'll be looking at your hands. the czech republic, hungary, slovakia, bulgaria, lithuania and latvia - have no fear. secondly, by acceding to the convention, we will unify protection through a binding instrument to overcome the disparities in policies in the member states and to promote international cooperation against violence, gender-based violence. it's not about the money, but it's about the scale of the problem we're facing. the estimated cost of gender-based violence in the union has increased by one third. we spend 366 billion euros a year on this. thirdly, and this is important, from the polish perspective we are getting an additional safeguard for the convention's application in the country, a second umbrella. as long as poland is in the union and bound by union law, the convention will protect polish citizens. at the same time, by adopting the convention, we are strengthening poland's integration with the european union. i'm very happy to hear that. that's why i went into politics. we must protect our mothers, wives, partners, daughters and friends from the dangerous time of populist rule, both in poland and throughout the european union. this is a great day for europe. and in the end i would like to thank arba kokalari, the swedish presidency, and all the others who work with us. we made the european union a better place to live. thank you very much. and in the end i would like to thank arba kokalari, the swedish presidency and all the others who work with us. we made the european union a better place to live.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, addressing you today on the occasion of the anniversary of the schuman declaration is a good opportunity to remind ourselves of the values we stand for: a union of equality where everyone should live free from violence. i thank this house for sharing this view and for the continuous support for the common objective of eradicating violence against women and domestic violence. you have played a key role in keeping the eu’s accession to the council of europe istanbul convention high on the european political agenda for many years. the commission welcomes the positive outcome of negotiations towards the conclusion of this convention in both the council and parliament. the eu’s accession will reinforce the union’s legal framework and send a strong message to all victims of violence against women and domestic violence on the importance of women’s rights in the eu. we need to combat violence against women on a common basis and ensure all women across europe receive the same rights, support and protection. to date, protection for women at risk of violence and their access to support services vary between the different member states. the eu’s accession to the istanbul convention will play a unifying role in raising awareness and promoting the exchange of good practices throughout the eu. the eu action provides an opportunity to contribute towards international progress in ending violence against women and be a global frontrunner on this topic. the eu accession will ensure the application of all relevant provisions of the convention which fall under eu competence. we have already taken several policy and legislative measures which contribute to the implementation of the convention at eu level. we have funding in place through the citizens, equality, rights and values programme, as well as legislation on trafficking in human beings and victims’ rights, to give some examples. the commission has proposed a directive on combating violence against women and domestic violence, which aims at achieving the same objectives as the istanbul convention in the area of judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the proposed directive, once adopted by the co-legislators, will serve to implement the relevant parts of the convention on prevention, protection, access to justice, and policy coordination and cooperation. we will be putting forward recommendations on combating harmful practices. we are setting up a network of gender-based violence experts. the finalisation of the eu accession process is another step in the direction of eradicating violence against women.
the vote which will finally allow our european union to ratify the istanbul convention is certainly good news and it is a result which we, all of us here, have been seeking with conviction and determination for these years and which will finally be achieved with tomorrow's vote. the union will be better tomorrow, it will be a union which will finally recognize as a social tragedy the violence which women suffer solely because of the guilt of having been born women, solely because of the guilt of being themselves, because of their desire, because of our desire for emancipation, because of our will to self-determination. we must recognize, however, that we have come too late to ratify this. too many delays, too many crossed-over vectors have blocked a process whose sole purpose was to fight, to eradicate a disease that is very present in our societies and that is called "hatred of women". and we're getting there, we're getting there, we're getting there, but we're doing it in small steps. the steps that would be needed are very different, we would need to run, ladies and gentlemen, we would need to jump and we would need to do much more, given the numbers of this daily war that is being waged against women. i would like to join you in celebrating an important political achievement, which we have achieved thanks to the collective efforts of this parliament and of the many women who have never given up. so i would like to dedicate this symbolic, historic vote to all of them, to all of us, let me say, to the women who struggle every day, to those who do not give up despite the many difficulties and who continue to struggle, those who continue to struggle in this house but those who continue to struggle above all outside this house.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, finally we are making a real step to protect women and girls against violence. while there is a serious lack of data, it is estimated that 3 232 femicides have been committed over the period between 2010 and 2021 in 20 member states. femicide means the killing of a woman by an intimate partner and the death of a woman as a result of a practice that is harmful to her. one in three women have experienced physical or sexual violence. one in four young women aged 15 to 24 years who have been in a relationship will have already experienced violence by an intimate partner by the time they reach their mid-twenties. this is unacceptable. women and girls in the eu and the entire world need the safeguards from the istanbul convention. but tackling gender-based violence is not easy. simply criminalising rape, other forms of sexual violence and physical violence is not efficient. it requires a holistic approach which revolves around supporting the victim and punishing the perpetrator. the convention recognises violence against women as a violation of human rights and a serious form of discrimination against women. it obliges parties to criminalise psychological violence, stalking, physical violence, sexual violence, including rape, forced marriage, female genital mutilation, forced abortion, forced sterilisation and sexual harassment. it further obliges to invest in education, training for experts and treatment programmes for perpetrators as a part of the prevention of violence and to establish appropriate support services ensuring victim protection. these obligations are not too much to ask. this is what the women and girls need, and i am counting on this house to support the accession to the convention. and i would also like to take the opportunity to also ask the council to do right by our women and girls and ensure the swift accession.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. - madam president! - i have to go. this is one of the most important days of this term. one of the most important, because gender-based violence is the most extreme form of discrimination against women. because 33% of all european union citizens have experienced, are experiencing or will experience violence in their lives simply because they are women. the istanbul convention is for me a constitution of the rights of women experiencing violence and all victims of domestic violence. the convention is not about ideology. it's about saving lives. i thank everyone in this room who has appealed to the council and the european commission over the years. i thank the activists and the activists who have been very active in the last years in fighting for ratification. this is a very special moment for me personally. 20 years ago in poland, i worked on the first draft of the law on domestic violence. ten years ago, i coordinated the ratification of the convention by poland. and today i have the honour of being part of the european parliament's historic decision. and finally, i'd like to appeal to everyone in this room. safety, health, women's lives are not political. the violence is experienced by the voters of the ppe, the s&d, the ecr and the id. let's all stand on the women's side tomorrow.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the need to combat violence is too serious a challenge to be used to impose any ideology. the application of concepts of the so-called gender perspective does not help to prevent violence but hinders the implementation of really effective measures. as acknowledged in its own preamble, the istanbul convention is based on gender theory, according to which violence against women must be eradicated by eliminating socially constructed roles, thus obviating the fact that the problem of violence is not due to criminal behaviour but to cultural constructions. he's moving, so it's a social issue, not a criminal one. in my country, in fact, the penalties for rapists are reduced and therefore the problem is to be tackled by promoting a change in the way we understand the relationships that confront us and generates inequality between men and women, which transforms the concept of the family as a place of conflict instead of meeting. the data show the reality: high levels of violence in countries that have based their response to violence against women on the paradigm contained in the istanbul convention. in spite of this, the european union today imposes this system, which it does not protect, by acceding to it, circumventing the objections of those member states which have not ratified the convention because they find it contrary to their constitutions. it is the member states which, in the exercise of their sovereignty, must adhere to international conventions.
madam president, commissioner, whenever a woman is attacked by her husband, her partner, her father or her son, whenever she is persecuted, harassed or even raped, whenever a woman is forced into marriage, an abortion or sterilization, whenever a child is the victim of female genital mutilation, we remind ourselves that we as the european union have not yet ratified the istanbul convention, that there are six states - bulgaria, the czech republic, slovakia, hungary, latvia and lithuania - that have not yet ratified it, and that many of the states which have signed the istanbul convention have not been able to put into practice the rules for the protection of women against violence contained in this convention. even in a country like portugal, the crime of rape is not yet a public crime and should be, in order to protect all women against what is a cloak of opacity, a cloak of concealment, which is often behind violence against women. and so it is essential that the european union takes this step as a decisive step towards respecting the human rights of all human beings - women, men, children, the elderly - but here in particular of those who have proved, in statistics, to be the most likely and most vulnerable victims: our european women, our women living on the european continent. (the speaker agrees to answer a question blue card)
the question of the 'blue card'. mr rangel, according to the istanbul convention, violence against women is the consequence of a so-called heteropatriarchy where the man is an alleged abuser by nature against women. i'm asking you, as a man, how you feel. i understand that you agree with this statement. am i supposed to see you like this, like a bully? should i be afraid of you as a woman?
the answer is 'blue card'. madam de la pisa, i accept your question and i answer in your language with great pleasure to say that you have an ideological prejudice. of course, men are not assumed to be abusers, but there are statistics that show that women are more vulnerable. statistically, they need protection. because for centuries and centuries women have not had the same rights as men and that still has consequences today. i am not ashamed to say that i do not consider all men to be abusers, but i do believe that women need special protection. and this is our responsibility to make sure that everyone is on an equal footing and that everyone has the same basic rights. no, i'm not ashamed to say it. of course there's a history of mistreatment of women. and we have to end this pandemic of mistreatment of women.
ms riba i giner, could you wait as you have a blue-card. i just want to clarify the rule. you can refuse, but the colleague can still present his blue—card.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. madam president, i am sorry that the honourable member does not wish to accept this question, but the court of justice of the european union in luxembourg issued an opinion on the istanbul convention on 6 october 2021 according to which the european union should respect the principle of subsidiarity and the right of the member states to decide this issue themselves and that parliament and the commission have no right to rush the council to take this decision on the conclusion of this intergovernmental agreement. you're doing what the court said you can't do right now, so i'm just wondering if you have any counter-argument to what i just said, or do you just want to shut up and not answer this question because you don't have that counter-argument?
(reacting to what ms riba i giner has said off-mic from the floor) so the way it works is that, yes, you can refuse, but the colleague can still present the blue—card, as far as we understand. we can check this with the president, and we will of course do so if we have doubts. so there is no need to answer.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the convention contains many necessary provisions, and if only these were retained, the document could be adopted unanimously and would probably have a chance of being effective. but you didn't. you have to put in every document, even the most necessary one, you have to push the ideology. it's about forcing everyone to accept their socio-cultural gender. there's no such thing. there is no cultural gender, there is only biological gender. encouraging children to change their gender has already resulted in many irreversible tragedies, like david, who committed suicide when the forerunner of this trend, dr. money, encouraged him to change his gender for exactly the same reason you do, that it's not biology, but culture that decides who's a boy and who's a girl. for women, too, this ideology ends in tragedy. it destroys their efforts in sports, depriving them of their chance to win a well-deserved medal in an unequal competition with men. in addition, it becomes a tool for the cunning ones who thus enter the intimate places of women and girls. the push for this ideology is designed to destroy traditional oases of identity, from gender, patriotism, church to nation-state. oases that, as your data show, are most effective in preventing violence in the countries where they are most powerful. and where traditional communities are no longer present, violence is rampant.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat violence against women, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat violence against women. so the istanbul convention does not actually reduce violence against women. second, unlike the pre-istanbul documents that referred to gender and sex mainly as synonyms, paragraph 53 of the explanatory report, as well as article 3 of the istanbul convention itself, explicitly define gender as the opposite of sex, which is the basis of gender ideology. so the istanbul convention is the legal cornerstone of gender ideology and that's why you're pushing the istanbul convention. most of you may not even be aware of it, but that's the problem, you don't care about the facts, you just repeat the popular catchphrases. unfortunately, in this way, instead of really trying to protect women from violence, you're actually using women to promote gender ideology. (the member agreed to answer the question by raising her blue card)
i'm asking for a blue card. since the honourable member has just said that the istanbul convention is not at all useful as a tool for combating violence against women, i would like to know from the honourable member which instrument he thinks would be the most effective.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. madam president, thank you very much for this question. a woman is not just a body. a woman has her emotional aspect, her intellectual aspect, her social and spiritual aspect and that's all that makes a woman a person. and it's the gender ideology that separates these aspects of each other from the woman who makes up the body, in the eyes of men, that fuels violence. so it's the combination of all these aspects that makes a woman a whole person in the way that i see a woman, that a woman is not just a body, but also a feeling and an intellect, and a social and a spiritual aspect.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, any debate, any signature is welcome, in order to keep the attention high and to raise the attention to protect women from the drama of physical, sexual, economic and psychological violence. but it is clear that we must act quickly, 12 years have passed since the istanbul convention was signed. you need to be credible and you need to be respectful. and just as it is not credible, just as it is not respectful to say that you save the planet by removing the salad wrapper, it is not credible to hold a convention called the "istanbul convention": turkey is one of those territories that is more aggressive, that is less protective, that is less protective of women. ask turkish women whether they feel protected or not. i do not want to discuss whether it is a good thing to sign or not, we do sign, but after 12 years we should also think about a second convention, which might be hosted in italy, of course, why not in milan, why not in genoa, why not in turin, why not in venice. we have beautiful cities in europe, certainly more respectful than this. and let us also take into account another tragedy which is that, i conclude, of women who cannot complete the birth of their child.
the rules do not allow any kind of presentation material, and this is about plastic and lettuce, which does not have anything to do with this debate. i think we have had enough blue—cards. we are a bit delayed already. so, with your permission, i would also recommend to my successor that no more blue—cards be accepted.
madam president, one third of the women in the european union have suffered physical or sexual violence in their lifetime. and that violence, according to the data, has increased after the covid-19 pandemic. today we celebrate europe day, the day of the values of harmony. and it is no coincidence that we are also celebrating the fact that tomorrow we will be voting in favour of the ratification of the istanbul convention by the european union. the main international instrument to prevent, protect, eliminate and prosecute violence against women sets a very clear roadmap with a global, united and coordinated response. alongside this ratification we shall shortly have the proposal for a directive to make violence against women a european crime with a common definition and minimum sanctions rules, and also with all the instruments to be able to attack this attack on human rights. it is a paradox that some left groups talk about the need to sign and push - i agree - the ratification of the istanbul convention, but then in spain - which i am sorry, but it has not been an example, it was an example, but it has not been an example - a rule has been passed that has made it possible to reduce more than a million convictions for sexual offenders and more than a hundred releases of sexual offenders, who are now on the street. and all those who have taken more than eight months to change this law come here to ask for haste for the istanbul convention. we have to be consistent. we must say that this is badly done in spain and we must come here to defend the istanbul convention. but it is not possible to prolong the agony of spain and then come here to say that it defends women. tomorrow is a big day and i hope we're all united.
madam president, i have to go. dearly beloved, it is a great honor to stand before you again today on such an important subject. i am honoured to be standing here today at such a historic juncture, when the union stands up for victims of gender-based violence, when the european parliament stands up for women. today we confirm the historic decision of the european union to accede to the istanbul convention. ladies and gentlemen, we cannot afford to gloss over the state of our modern society, which is so badly marked by violence everywhere we look. we all deserve to feel secure, regardless of our sex, our background, or our abilities. but when we have these shocking data of violence against one in three women and girls in the world, it's not time to question, it's time to act. it is unacceptable that we politicize the issue of violence against women. the eu has six other member states that have not yet ratified the convention, despite the appalling figures on the number of victims of violence. it's enough to wait for consent. therefore, your honor, i strongly support the court's view that a qualified majority is sufficient to rule. well, because we have to and because we can. thank you for all the good things and thank you for europe day. long live europe and its decisions!
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens is a very good one. the numbers speak for themselves: one in three women in the european union has been a victim of physical and/or sexual violence since the age of 15; more than 50% of women have been sexually harassed; one in five women has been physically and/or sexually abused by a current or former partner. the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women (istanbul convention) is the first legally binding instrument to prevent and combat violence against women and girls at international level. the convention is an important step towards a universal response to violence against women and girls across europe, covering prevention, protection of victims and prosecution of perpetrators through the implementation of integrated and coherent policies. as the only greek cypriot woman mep, i feel much more the weight of responsibility and the need to solve this problem. gender-based violence remains one of the greatest threats to the full enjoyment of human and fundamental rights in the world, disproportionately affecting women. we must address the problem of violence against women with holistic solutions for all women and especially for the little girls to whom we owe a future free from discrimination, intimidation and abuse.
let me start by addressing my colleagues on the right, because it seems to me that grown men no longer believe in fairy tales, in monsters, and i'm surprised that colleagues in this room talk so much about gender ideology and gender monsters. i'm surprised to hear that, especially since your sons are listening to you. and violence starts with words, and then unfortunately we have what we have. so i appeal to the good sense of my colleagues here. my speech was supposed to be less than a minute. in the european union, one woman is assaulted every minute. that is why this convention is so important and why i am so glad that it has been ratified. but i still wonder why as the european union, when we have unified so many things, we have common roaming, we have common license plates, we have one standard for cucumbers and carrots, we still don't have one definition of rape. why is this happening? it's a very simple definition. no means no, but yes is yes. so sex without consent is rape. i mean, this definition is very simple. as meps working on a new directive, we must finally standardise this once and for all, as we do many other things in the european union, because it affects more than half of society and it affects human rights.
madam president! the experience of violence is the experience of millions of women. there is nothing more harmful, even to the prospects of raising future generations, than violence in the home. nothing destroys families like domestic violence. acceptance of violence in any form in the home is the first step towards the justification of violence in social life and then in international relations. we need to talk about this because domestic violence is the mother of all other forms of violence, including war. i'll remind you that in putin's russia, the law was changed so that domestic violence can only be reported if it happens repeatedly. to put it bluntly, the first time you beat your partner is legally permissible. it's disgusting and soulless. europe must go its own way. that is why i am addressing all those who oppose the convention: the convention is needed, it is needed as a guideline, it is needed as a clear commitment. european culture is built on the imperative of defending the weak. that is why no perpetrator of violence should go unpunished, and no victim should feel left out. i am convinced that the incorporation of the istanbul convention into the european legal system is not only justified, it is necessary to leave a better world than the one we have found.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. ladies and gentlemen of the law and justice party, watch and learn, learn normalcy, learn negotiation, learn europe. in parliament, i worked side by side with arba kokalari of the swedish right on the report on the istanbul convention. it is also thanks to the determination of its conservative party that the union's accession to the istanbul convention is becoming a reality. because they, unlike you, are the normal right. they don't put political interests above women's interests. only in poland or hungary is the right equal to the bigot. even the lithuanian conservatives are different from you. they have courage. moreover, mr jakic, even the meps in your group support accession to the istanbul convention. respect to the congresswoman kanko. what are you doing? you're on your own again. hand in hand with orban and the pro-kremlin fanatics, the freaks from the id. 27 to 1 again. you are totally opposed to this, and we are, like it or not, joining the european union in protecting women's rights. tomorrow is the vote and a very important day for millions of women in the european union. i appeal to all members not to be indifferent, but to vote for the union's accession to the istanbul convention!
the joint debate is now closed. the vote will be held tomorrow, wednesday, 10 may. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. it is a historic moment for the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence. six long years after the signature of the istanbul convention, the european union is moving towards ratification. this instrument sets a fundamental objective for any civilised country that wishes to protect human rights: eliminate gender-based discrimination and achieve a future of equal opportunities for women in all sectors. nevertheless, some member states persist in delaying ratification and implementation of the convention on the basis of pretexts that hide a worrying backsliding in women's rights and gender equality. the creation of an effective and coherent european legal framework for protection against the various forms of violence and discrimination is not without obstacles. further efforts are needed to improve assistance to victims and to prosecute and punish perpetrators of crime. only together will we give a stronger european response to make women free from violence.
the next item is the debate on the statement on the situation in sudan by the vice—president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy [2023/2684(rsp)].
member of the commission,on behalf of the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members, today’s debate, which i deliver on behalf of the high representative / vice—president josep borrell, is a timely opportunity to discuss the unfolding conflict in sudan, which is shaking the ground in the country and also in the region. it is an already dire situation becoming a humanitarian catastrophe. the eu strongly condemns the ongoing fighting between the rapid support forces, the rsf and the sudanese armed forces, the saf, since 15 april, in khartoum and the rest of the country. we strongly deplore the loss of lives and the violations of international law, including international humanitarian law and international human rights. so far, more than 500 people have been killed and 6 000 injured since the conflict began. these are figures in khartoum alone. the situation in the peripheries, notably in darfur, is even more dramatic and heavily under—reported. with regard to the evacuations, the majority of the estimated 1 700 eu citizens who were in sudan when the conflict erupted have now been evacuated. strong eu solidarity was at play, with eu member states organising evacuation flights, taking on board other eu nationalities as well as citizens from other countries. the eu continues to facilitate coordinated consular efforts to bring those eu citizens still in the country and willing to leave safely in cooperation with our international partners. i would like to take this opportunity to thank eu member states and their militaries for the coordinated efforts and successfully carrying out complex evacuations in sudan. we will continue pushing for a political settlement through coordinated efforts from all the international community. from day one of the conflict, the eu has mobilised its entire diplomatic apparatus. the eu’s short—term objective is to contribute to establishing a sustainable ceasefire so as to enable civilians to find safety and allow humanitarian actors to deliver life—saving assistance. we are working together with our partners to establish a broad—based coalition in this regard and following a consolidated approach. i would like to commend the efforts to increase flexible humanitarian funding for partners who are maintaining or resuming their operations in sudan. as soon as the security environment allows, we shall stand ready to step in immediately through a coordinated team europe approach. moving forward will be resource demanding, significant investment will be needed in logistics, in civil military coordination and in security analysis and information sharing, including within the un, but also between the un, ngos and the diplomatic community. beyond the attacks on civilians and on our staff, the situation is extremely worrying and requires our utmost attention. the risks of an all—out war in this country are growing exponentially. the eu welcomes the support of collective, regional and international coordinated mediation efforts, including those of the un, the african union, the intergovernmental authority on development (igad), the league of arab states, south sudan, the us and saudi arabia. they’re essential to bring sudan back to the path of peace and stability and to respect the aspirations of the people in sudan for a peaceful, stable and democratic future. close coordination to merge and consolidate mediation efforts is of key importance. the eu reaffirms its steadfast support and solidarity with the people of sudan, especially women and youth, who led a peaceful revolution three years ago. their aspirations and requests for a better future will not be forgotten. thank you very much for your attention.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, thank you, commissioner, a few months ago, we were with the foreign affairs committee in sudan. it’s quite heartbreaking to see all these pictures of the recent events. the ongoing crisis in sudan has caused immense suffering for the sudanese people and threatens the stability and security of an already fragile region. it has forced more than 100 000 persons to leave the country, and the involvement of third countries has aggravated the violence and obstructed the de-escalation efforts. i call for immediate ceasefire and urge all parties to commit to a peaceful resolution to the conflict. such a resolution would enable unimpeded humanitarian access, ensuring the safety of aid workers and providing relief to those in dire need. it is vital that the european union, the african union, the un and the international community work together to find a sustainable solution and support sudan’s transition to democracy. only a civilian-led government could address the huge political, economic, security and humanitarian challenges the country is currently facing.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, commissioner and colleagues, first of all, i think we need to be careful in our funding, both the eu and the member states, that we focus on localisation. there are existing voluntary groups in khartoum and throughout sudan, such as resistance committees and established service committees, which are doing extraordinarily well in very, very difficult circumstances, and i think we need to make sure that humanitarian funding is actually accessible to local organisations. secondly, we have already demonstrated by our actions that we have determined that sudan is not a safe place because of the evacuations of expats. in other words, we have demonstrated that there should be a way for people to seek refuge from sudan. but there are, of course, no legal and safe pathways for anybody to leave the country. and i hope that this will be a matter for the meeting of the foreign affairs council, which takes place this weekend. it is currently not on the agenda, and i would urge the commission to try to address this. there are a number of things that we can do. obviously, humanitarian funding is one thing, and we have had so many debates about heading 6 and we need to address that very urgently. we also have to remember that the frontex has been in discussion with rsf about the externalisation of our migration policy and that is something that is come home to roost. we have also awareness that rsf has received spyware from european companies, an irish-registered company exported from cyprus and with approval from greece. so one thing we have to insist on, not to allow the status quo to return. we have to insist on making sure that we do everything we can to restore civilian authorities: the least the people of sudan deserve.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, dear commissioner, today we address the alarming situation in sudan, where the ongoing conflict has resulted in the tragic loss of innumerable innocent civilians’ lives. the violence, which began on april 15th, has escalated rapidly across different parts of the country, leading to additional large-scale displacement and a dire humanitarian crisis. i deplore the fact that the parties involved have failed to engage in meaningful dialogue to resolve the crisis, leading to further destabilisation of the region. today we urge them to implement an immediate and unconditional ceasefire and allow unhindered humanitarian access. to support these efforts, the eu institutions and the member states should work with like-minded countries and organisations to access possible further steps. we must uphold our support for the aspiration of the sudanese people who desire peace, stability and democracy.
madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, once again, we are witnessing what could turn out to be another humanitarian catastrophe, and it is paramount to use all our means to prevent it. however, we cannot limit ourselves to the provisions of immediate humanitarian aid. this time, it is imperative to accompany our actions with a thorough reflection on our approach to foreign policy. in my recommendation on a strategic partnership with the horn of africa and eastern africa, approved last october, this house pointed out the absolute need to establish a thorough engagement with our counterparts based on the preventive and substantial dialogue aiming at understanding the needs and working together towards the solutions. i have the feeling that this has not happened in sudan as the long-lasting problems that persist since the coup that overthrown al-bashir are at the core of the current disaster. we welcome the talks for a democratic transition, full of wishful thinking, as it should be, but we must understand that hoping for the best is not sufficient. if we do not engage constructively and in a timely, effective manner, we will always need to run for cover when it is already too late and this is something that cannot be accepted anymore.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. sudan is another country where we're basically a few steps behind russia. because we cannot have the illusion, as many commentators on political and world affairs do, that it is external influences that are the actual cause of the tensions and struggles that are taking place there. russia has been trying to gain more footholds in africa for years. sudan is basically a diamond in the kremlin's plan. a possible naval base that would block access to the suez canal and the suez canal itself, a key sea route between europe and asia. it handles most of the maritime trade between continents. if you add to that what's been dropped here, which is the issue of raw materials like gold, it basically all comes together. the european community should seek to stabilise sudan as soon as possible, although it is - i realise - very difficult to end the fighting and to expel those who are fomenting it. there is a great need for humanitarian aid, i agree, also as a diplomatic tool. and i would also like to thank the house of lords, because the increase in humanitarian aid, which will also be needed in the next budget, will be a tool that will be available.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. first of all, i would like to make it very clear that poland, my country, is absolutely in favour of, and is a fervent supporter of, all the candidates from both the western balkans and the eastern neighbourhood in the process of enlargement of the european union. as for serbia, belgrade's strategic foreign policy directions unfortunately remain unchanged, while russia's aggression against ukraine has clearly shown that it is increasingly difficult for serbia to maintain a multi-vector policy. balancing between east and west, hiding behind the protection of its own economic interests and pro-russian social sentiments, the serbian authorities have so far not decided to join the sanctions against russia. in recent months, there has been a marked decline in the alignment of serbia's foreign policy with the eu's common foreign and security policy. the main reason for the declining degree of conformity of serbian foreign policy to around 40% is primarily belgrade's position on the russian invasion of ukraine. the lack of harmonisation of the positions of serbia and the european union was also noticeable with regard to china and, inter alia, iran and belarus. in view of the increasing divergence of serbia's foreign policy from the european union's policy, the chances of progress in the accession negotiations, including the opening of the next negotiating cluster in the first half of 2023, are slim and essentially nil. the lack of progress on the path of european integration is reflected in public attitudes. only 43% of those polled do not believe that serbia will ever become a member state of the european union. if a referendum on serbia's accession to the eu were held today, 44% of those polled would be in favour of belgrade's accession, while 42% would be against it. it should be said that serbia with putin will obviously not join the european union.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 10 may 2023.
the next item is the report by mrs viola von cramon-taubadel, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the commission's report on kosovo (2022/2201 (ini)) (a9-0174/2023).
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 10 may 2023. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the launch of the european year of skills (2023/2660 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the minister! the european year of skills is a good idea. today, 77% of european companies have difficulty finding suitably qualified employees. we're going to need 20 million workers in the it sector by 2030, and by 2030, 60 percent of the adult population should be in training, compared to 37 percent today, so it's an incredibly ambitious task. at the request of my political group, the employment committee is organising a public hearing on the diseases of the labour market and the professions of the future. that's an important topic too. the importance of digital skills and the risk of a digital divide were also mentioned in our proposal. in addition, the requirements of the reference to the promotion of vocational training and events such as euroskills, which help to show the attractiveness of the career path, are taken into account. this is important because this year's edition of the event, which promotes the world's champions of the sport, will be held in poland. the negotiations with the council also succeeded in rejecting the problematic provisions proposed by parliament on the legal framework for paid traineeships. my group will support this proposal. there is no doubt that we all need to know that lifelong learning, lifelong learning, will soon become a duty for all of us.
madam president! the modern labour market offers citizens enormous opportunities, but also presents specific challenges. lifelong learning and continuous upskilling are now a natural part of the european economy, which requires highly skilled workers. i speak with pride as a representative of poland, a country that is one of the three most competitive markets for the it industry in central and eastern europe. we are also the second most attractive market in the world for it outsourcing. but we have to realize that there is a serious innovation gap compared to the global market. i therefore call on the european commission to step up its efforts to ensure that workers' skills are properly matched to labour market needs, so as to enable citizens to fulfil their professional potential and to increase the competitiveness of european businesses, which is something we all need to be concerned about. and let's not forget the elderly. it is necessary for the union to take steps to protect older people from digital exclusion. that's the only way we're going to build a truly equal society.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the report by mrs biljana borzan, drawn up on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directives 2005/29/ec and 2011/83/eu as regards the empowerment of consumers in the ecological transition through better information and better protection against unfair practices (com ((2022) 0143 - c9-0128/2022 - 2022/0092cod)).
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! many of you have probably made a decision to buy a product based on the label 'green' or 'environmentally friendly'. more and more citizens are doing so. unfortunately, it's often just pseudo-ecological marketing that has nothing to do with real environmental assessment. the report aims to curb this kind of practice, which misleads consumers. i would like to thank the rapporteur for working with me on this project. i think we have succeeded in producing a balanced text which is beneficial to consumers but at the same time does not impose disproportionate burdens on businesses. my priority is to treat consumers equally and fairly, as is reflected in the amendments i have tabled which have been compromised. and thank you for that, too. they will ensure that citizens receive the same conditions and duration of the commercial guarantee for the same product in all member states. i strongly reject the amendments to the vote put forward by the greens and the left which prohibit the promotion of products derived from fossil fuels. they are vague and de facto prohibit the advertising of products for everyday use, but also those needed for the energy transition, such as solar panels. these solutions are certainly not designed to protect the environment, but are merely a sign of green populism. there's no approval for these changes, and my group will not support them.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i listened carefully to what you said and you said that there are many social issues to be solved at the moment in the european union. do you think that this war that is going on in ukraine does not concern society, does not concern children, does not concern mothers, families, refugees? don't you understand that this war is also a social issue? and this is also a war that is being fought on the border of the european union. what makes you so sure that what's happening in ukraine is not a social issue?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you get away with this. the implementation of increasingly ambitious climate policies is posing many new challenges for the energy sector. the directive almost doubles the existing share of renewable energy in the european union and increases the previous 2030 target by 10 percentage points. this translates into sectoral objectives, with the member state governments being responsible for achieving them. the new rules should not create risks related to the potential lack of security of supply of electricity and heat. at the current technological stage, we already see the challenges of balancing renewable energy in the electricity system. moreover, the regulations should not create such a high risk and risk to the financial stability of the energy sector in general. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change action plan, including the implementation of the union's climate change action plan, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change action plan. the transformation should be balanced both in terms of financial stability and in terms of the stability of the system, because this creates great problems and unfortunately lack of social acceptance in the european union society. i fear that the current targets were adopted under the pressure of political ambition rather than real analysis and concrete calculations.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you so much for all your comments during today’s debate. naturally, the subject raises a lot of interest and i am happy to see that we agree on the need for an ambitious and accelerated deployment of renewables across all the relevant sectors. right now, we face many challenges, whether it’s the transition to climate neutrality or securing home-grown cheap electricity production. the deployment of renewables is crucial in addressing these. but i hear a lot from industries how important regulatory stability is for investment certainty, and this is what we are providing the industry with today. there are some challenges posed by the accelerated and ambitious deployment of renewables – some of you mentioned these today. the commission stands ready to work with industry and with the member states to address them over the course of the implementation of the directive. with this in mind, i look forward to the vote and to having the new renewable energy directive approved.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i've been listening very carefully. so on the subject of flexibility in the protection of species, the ffh directive, we agree. i am particularly pleased that this side of parliament has made a move. i would remind you that you voted in favour of the trilogue on biomass and that you are therefore taking the result with you. and i want to remind you that we have prescribed a very valuable cascade principle for wood use. and in that respect, i think the environmental aspects have been taken into account. i think that the biomass is the same. whether the wood is rotting in the forest or is used for energy purposes, the co2 balance is more on the side of the use of the wood. and so i think we have no reason to blame ourselves here. it is also about the stability of supply, it is about basic security. and yes, i agree with those who have said that the networks must grow with it. yeah, we need transitions too. we are not going to be able to do all this in the next few years. but that is precisely why, ladies and gentlemen, that is precisely why we need this openness to technology. we need all renewable energy. we need biomass, we need wind, we need sun. we also need colored hydrogen. my dear colleagues, listen to this: colourful hydrogen. if we do not accept this, we will see an explosion in the cost of the energy transition. and we're just not going to get any further. so it's really good that we have the directive now as we have it. for us, the benchmark is the paris climate targets, the co2 targets, and not the green ideology, which wants to exclude certain things, wants to make them better, wants to ban them. i believe that this open technology directive is the right and pragmatic way forward for a successful energy transition.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the european commission's reckless decisions and disastrous sanctions policy have left citizens and businesses facing a serious energy crisis. energy markets have been hit by hectic price fluctuations, which have raised recession accounts across europe and undermined investment confidence. three lessons can be drawn from this situation. first, it has been proven that sufficient and affordable energy is vital to the functioning of the european economy. renewable energy sources therefore also play a key role in achieving the union's energy independence. increasing their share in the energy mix should be supported from both security of supply and climate protection perspectives. on the other hand, it has become clear that energy policy problems generated by the commission can be solved by the member states. the achievements so far have been made possible by the sacrifices of citizens and the swift and decisive action of governments. a good example of this is hungary, which has implemented one of the fastest solar energy programmes in europe in recent years, while maintaining the protection of the grid. finally, it became clear that the proposals in brussels were more likely to hinder efforts to increase the use of renewable energy. the impact assessment of the directive, which was carried out before the energy crisis, is outdated and the objectives set are therefore unfounded. furthermore, the commission is also financially hindering renewable energy projects by blocking eu funds to hungary and poland. this is unacceptable the commission should abolish the harmful sanctions, member states should hand over their resources and should provide all the help they can to promote investments in renewable energy.
the next item is the debate on the report by ms kateřina konečná, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on consumer credit (com (2021) 0347 - c9-0244/2021 - 2021/0171 (cod)) (a9-0212/2022).
the rapporteur. mr president, it is not easy to take over such a large and important legislative document as the rapporteur of the smallest political group. however, i believe that given the context of the current economic crisis, as rapporteur for the left, i have stood up and prepared legislation that will significantly protect consumers who take out credit. before i get to the actual analysis of what went well and what didn't, let me thank all the shadow reporters, their assistants and political advisors, including the secretariats and linguists. without you, this work would not have been possible. i cannot forget to thank the two presidencies which took part in the new directive, the czech and the swedish. last but not least, i'd like to thank the commissioner and his amazing team. it's been a long and difficult journey. i'm not going to lie, at the end of it is a result that is definitely not perfect and in every way not what i would have wanted as a left-wing politician, but it is one that i can stand behind with pride. and i think the biggest achievement of my vision is that we have, for the first time, managed to enforce what's called the right to be forgotten for cancer patients in european union law. for years, there have been all sorts of patient forums talking about the discrimination that cancer survivors experience on a daily basis in the financial markets. in future, those who have recovered from cancer and apply for a loan for which insurance is required will be protected by a 'right to be forgotten' guaranteeing that, after a certain period of time has elapsed since their treatment ended, a bank or insurance company will not be able to use their cancer as a reason to undermine the credit insurance. personally, i would like to see this right extended to all major diseases, not just cancer, but the member states of the european union have agreed only on cancer. anyway, the door opened. once a law is established, it may gradually be written everywhere. another thing i'm particularly proud of is the new credit advertising regulations. like cigarette advertising, new loan advertising should always include a clear and strong warning that borrowing money simply costs money. at the same time, certain dangerous and misleading types of advertising will be prohibited. personally, i think that consumer credit advertising should be banned completely, at least in the mass media, but unfortunately, that has proven to be completely impractical. overall, the new directive covers a number of financial products that have not been regulated so far, such as credit cards and various micro-loans. i am particularly pleased that, after a hard fight with the council, the directive has been extended to the now widespread 'buy today pay tomorrow' schemes. new regulation is needed especially against big tech companies, as they are assertively trying to enter the credit market and wield enormous power to drive consumers to impulse purchase. i consider the biggest failure of the negotiations to be our failure to enforce the obligation on member states to set a higher maximum chargeable interest rate for consumer credit or, alternatively, a maximum price for a credit that the borrower is obliged to pay for the credit. in my view, this would be by far the most effective consumer protection tool. colleagues, once again, i want to thank all of you for your smooth cooperation. i look forward to the debate and strongly hope that the document will pass the final vote smoothly and that the new consumer credit directive will then be swiftly implemented by the member states as well. in my opinion, it was too late yesterday and we can't afford to waste any more time.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i am pleased to be with you today for this debate about the new consumer credit directive. i am replacing commissioner reynders, who unfortunately could not be here this evening. the 2008 consumer credit directive has proven to be an essential tool to protect eu consumers taking out credit. however, after 15 years, it was necessary to update it. indeed, the digitalisation process profoundly changed the financial sector and new forms of credit are being proposed to vulnerable consumers online. the current cost of living crisis is also putting many european consumers under strain. many need to borrow for their basic needs and we must ensure they are properly informed about the risks of taking out credit. in this context, the commission welcomes the agreement reached by the co-legislators in spring and is very happy that the text is now ready for a formal final adoption by parliament. the commission believes that the new rules will improve the protection of consumers and will foster responsible practices both online and offline, thus increasing consumer confidence. they will also create a clearer framework for credit providers. i would like to thank you for the work done by parliament and in particular by the rapporteur, ms kateřina konečná, and the imco committee on this very important proposal for consumer protection. we particularly welcome that the co-legislators found an agreement on several important improvements of the consumer credit legislation. let me highlight a few of them. first, the scope will be extended to reflect market developments. new products such as ‘buy now, pay later’ schemes, as well as often risky small amount high-cost loans will now be covered by the rules. we also appreciate that pre-contractual information disclosure online will be improved. this will empower consumers to make more informed choices and effectively compare offers with online tools. moreover, a warning about the costs of credit for all advertisements will increase consumer awareness. the commission welcomes the further strengthening of the proposal regarding creditworthiness assessment – one of the key provisions of the directive. new rules will make sure that only relevant data are used for such assessment. moreover, credit will only be granted to consumers who are deemed able to repay their debt sustainably. the new provisions on measures to cap the cost of credit on forbearance and on debt advice will prevent the offering of excessively expensive credits by design and strengthen over indebtedness prevention. they will ensure that consumers in difficulty are adequately supported and do not fall in debt spirals. the agreement also provides for effective and dissuasive penalties in line with horizontal consumer legislation. finally, it is positive to see that the new directive establishes rules for adequate admission, registration and supervision of all credit providers. once the text is adopted, the commission will work closely with member states to ensure a smooth transposition of the new rules. the commission strongly believes the new directive is a major step forward to protect consumers against risky credit products and over indebtedness and to create a more harmonised framework for businesses offering credit. we are very proud of the results achieved.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. – mr president, consumer credits may be a source of hope and happiness, but they can also lead to personal drama and tragedies for whole families. this is why i welcome the deal on the consumer credit directive. as econ rapporteur on the file, i fought for this document to enable people to make informed choices when taking credit. i welcome that, according to the new rules, a negative creditworthiness assessment precludes a credit agreement from being concluded. the new rules correctly oblige the lender to make sure that consumers have easy access to all necessary information, including the total cost of credit. moreover, knowing how many families fall into that spiral, i welcome the fact that the directive encompasses also small loans below eur 200. if well implemented, this directive lowers the risk of consumer credits being a source of personal tragedies. in a world of many doubts, this security is to be welcomed.
member of the commission. mr president, madam rapporteur, dear marion wallsman, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the european commission, i would first like to congratulate the european parliament and the council on the impressive work they have done over the last 18 months on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of geographical indications for handicrafts and industrial products. this is the last straight line. we are now on the threshold of a new system of geographical indications, a safer, more visible system, at the service of producers and consumers, but also, of course, of our european regions, all of whom are working to protect our industrial, but also cultural, european heritage. this collective effort around geographical indications is a reminder of the importance of intellectual property as a key driver of economic growth in an increasingly intangible economy. let me remind you that ip-intensive industries already account for 45% of the total gross domestic product of the union, but also for 93% of the european union's exports. the regulation we are discussing today is one of the flagship initiatives of the ip action plan 2020. it is intended to strengthen the competitiveness of industry, and of course of smes, throughout the union, but also, it must be said, to fill legal gaps. for more than thirty years, only agricultural products were concerned, and with this proposal, that will no longer be the case. the regulation also fills a legal gap at international level. producers of industrial and craft products will be able to apply for international protection of their geographical indications under the geneva act, and thus benefit from the protection granted by the european union's international agreements which, as you know, currently only cover products with a single agricultural geographical indication. during the trilogues and thanks in particular to parliament's amendments, the text was strengthened and i really wanted to thank you for this, madam rapporteur, as well as, of course, all the fictitious rapporteurs who have worked towards this, to have a very constructive approach. it is therefore an ambitious text, which fully recognises the importance of geographical indications. i would like to conclude, if i may, by saying a few words about smes, which will be the main beneficiaries of this regulation, and i am grateful to the european parliament for its advocacy on their behalf. several provisions are specifically aimed at these companies to encourage them to register their geographical indications in the european union. the aim, of course, is to reduce the administrative and financial burden of the registration procedure for smes, with the possibility of benefiting from the technical assistance provided by the member states' authorities for the preparation of their application. this regulation is one of the many initiatives of our commission in favour of smes, a major priority in the light of the major challenges facing smes today. we shall return to this in the sme package, the famous package of measures to support smes, which, i would remind you, must be adopted tomorrow in committee. i know that the european parliament is fully aware of the challenges of the new geographical indications system and i am confident that you will support this new regulation.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. – mr president, the establishment of the eu-wide protection system for geographical indications for craft and industrial products is a long-awaited initiative. building on the years of successful promotion of gis in the food and spirits sector, we may now use similar tools to protect and promote european craft and artisanal products. with the introduction of the eu-wide registration system, which guarantees uniform laws and protection for eu producers, we should not forget about the establishment of proper counterfeiting mechanisms and active controls of e-commerce trade. it is now the role of dg trade to extend the protection to third countries by the means of revised trade and gi protection agreements. it is my hope that with simplified registration procedures and support of eu and local authorities, our producers will benefit from increased protection and promotion of their products within the common market and beyond.
madam president! president von der leyen, in her closing remarks, said that we must face the necessary reforms of the eu. it is worth considering the direction these reforms are going. because talking about the enlargement of the european union, which is necessary and we all support ukraine and other countries to finally join our european family, cannot be an excuse to limit the sovereignty of the member states, to take away the powers of the member states to put the everyday affairs of europeans that are being handled in the member states today in the hands of european bureaucrats. i'm sure we'll never agree to that. it is worthwhile that this debate should also take place during the november plenary session when we will vote on the proposed amendments, because europeans have a right to know what the amendments are and how deeply they will affect them. and a second point that deserves to be spoken about openly: president charles michel briefly mentioned here that the council's conclusions contain only a short paragraph on the discussion on the financial situation and the revision of the multiannual financial framework. we know there was no consent, and there is no consent. so what's the point? finally, please tell us what the budget situation is, what the eu's financial situation is. the europeans have a right to know.
it's in writing. at the beginning of this debate, ms ursula von der leyen stressed the importance for the european union to lay the necessary internal foundations for its reforms. why don't we just say what these foundations are supposed to be based on? what's going on here? the changes that are to take place in the european union mean the abolition of the veto. so far, member states have remained sovereign states even though they have ceded some of the eu's powers. we are now trying to get rid of this, and this is a fundamental change in the status of the member states. we see here that the union will want to interfere in foreign affairs, defence and border security. from the perspective of poland, there is a legitimate concern that germany will want to interfere in these matters, which would mean that external governments in poland would interfere. we can never agree to that! the issue of eu enlargement, including through ukraine which we support, understanding its need cannot be an excuse to force changes to treaties that directly or indirectly affect the sovereignty of the member states. and the forced federation of europe is nothing but a simple path to its fall.
it's in writing. it is worth noting that, thanks to the joint action of the commission and parliament, we have managed to avoid a major crisis in the european energy market. after the war in ukraine broke out, the risk of a massive energy crisis was on the member states. the measures taken to supplement gas storage, diversify energy import infrastructure routes, invest in renewable energy sources and energy efficiency have helped to reduce energy demand. it is worth noting that the use of renewable energy has increased significantly, as has the use of photovoltaics and wind farms. the european union has become more independent from russian fossil fuels. it's also a huge achievement. unfortunately, there are countries like austria that have increased russian gas supplies by almost 40%, which has not received any response from the commission or parliament. why? why? during the energy market downturn, we saw a significant increase in fossil fuel subsidies, which is why member states have launched crisis support mechanisms of eur 195 billion. in my opinion, this is not in line with the union's climate policy and even deviates significantly from it. energy prices in the european union are currently very high for both individual and business customers. the european union's energy policy should therefore be reviewed to take into account and take care of consumers' interests first.
mr president, madam commissioner, by all accounts, the eu-us summit was successful enough. congratulations. so let me make a larger point. satrapies such as russia, china, north korea, iran and venezuela collaborate to harm us. therefore, we need to stick together. there are two things that keep me awake at night. number one, if the election in the us goes the wrong way next year, we’ll be in real trouble. and i beg you, colleagues, we need to get serious about european defence. and secondly, the bill in the us congress to supply arms and ammunition to ukraine is having difficulty. we need to communicate to our american colleagues that this is crucial. this is what i think we should do.
the reporter. the president! - what? - my colleagues and colleagues! in order to thank the counter-proposers, advisers and assistants for their very intensive and very efficient work, i request that they be referred to the committee responsible, in accordance with article 54 (4), for negotiation.
author of the draft opinion of the commission on women's rights and equality. the president! parliament deals with many issues in the area of children's rights every day, as is the european child guarantee. looking at the world today, we have to be clear: it's still not enough. armed conflicts, poverty, climate change, violence against children both online and in the real world, lack of access to education, health care, and the much-needed psychological and social support in recent years. it shapes and influences the next generation, which means it also shapes the future of all of us. i want to emphasize with all my strength today: children in ukraine, children in gaza and israel, in sudan and everywhere adults are fighting their wars, have the same right to live, to grow and to thrive in a sense of security, love and respect. this law is universal, inalienable, and it doesn't matter in which country or on which side of the wall a child was born. and in the end, i'll say something very clear: all children are ours and deserve the best. and we, here in the european parliament, should take this maxim as a matter of course and set an example.
the president, the commissioner! your honor! in accordance with the provisions of the convention on the rights of the child, all activities concerning children should always be directed to their highest interests. in poland, social policy has been the area where the most dynamic changes have taken place in recent years, and the family has been at the heart of state policy. you can't talk about a child separated from his family. a modern and independent state must be built on solid foundations. and that's the foundation of family. in recent years, my country has shown that investing in a family is not a cost, but the best investment possible. social programmes such as the revolutionary 500+ programme, which has had a significant impact on reducing child poverty, good start, family caretaking, have proved to be essential support for ensuring children's development and safety. our children are our future, and only through the support of our families can we provide them with stability. children must be protected in every way, both in times of peace and in times of war, and especially in times of war, in families and in institutions. we adults should be the ones to effectively take care of their safety, happiness, and development. it's good to be talking about this, but we should be moving even faster and more efficiently.
on behalf of the ecr group. your honor, the chairman! - the commissioner! another climate summit ahead of us. and again, i think it is good that, as for many years now, the european parliament has been speaking out to strengthen eu climate diplomacy by increasing its ambition, by setting an example for the european union in the fight against climate change, global warming. but i think we should ask ourselves, beyond setting a good example and increasing our ambition on our continent, are we really impacting the climate and the environment? because china, india and the united states were, like, running their economies alongside europe. the commissioner rightly noted that this is a global process and he talked about decarbonisation, but in recent years we have seen the chinese increase their coal-based energy, increase their coal production, and that's billions of tons going into their economic market. and we europeans today, by minimizing our own and increasing our ambitions by decarbonising, we are not able to convince our partners by this example. and then there's the question. do we have any other arguments going into this cop to be effective in convincing the world's great players that we're saving the climate?
on behalf of the ecr group. the president! i thank the rapporteur for working together on this very important report, which will have a direct impact on the lives of every citizen of the european union. imagine that your cell phone, which is difficult to function without today, is shut down by a slight malfunction. instead of throwing it in the trash and buying a new one, we should have the option to repair it, even outside the two-year warranty. this will save people's wallets and allow them to use more expensive equipment. i'm also pleased that my amendments are releasing the potential and energy of independent repair services that are key to reducing the cost of servicing products outside the authorized point. the rules introduced will facilitate the provision of cross-border repair services, provide access to spare parts and technical documentation. the new law is an opportunity for polish entrepreneurs, which will increase competition in the repair sector and contribute to better conditions for consumers. our text also extends the warranty for one year after the first repair of the product and introduces a new, also annual, warranty on the repair service. i believe that the proposed regulation will contribute to creating an effective repair market in the european union, one that benefits us all and which we all care about.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i am not going to say anything. it's nice to see you here. - what? so absorbing, absorbing carbon dioxide is very important. it's a good thing you have to pay for it, encourage it to just happen. unfortunately, this document does not meet these needs because it builds the system into an absolute legal vacuum. and roughly, we're saying that somehow it's going to be that the market will determine that the farmers, the forestry workers are interested because they're going to do all kinds of things that they're going to do anyway, and they're going to get money for it. unfortunately, if we don't tie this system to the ets, which is, if we don't reduce the purchase of rights by buying carbon capture and absorption certificates, we're just going to create ets 3, which will be absolutely functional on the market without any control. it's a bad omen. i hope that during the next work we can work out the safe documents.
madam president! i am in favour of rejecting the commission proposal in its entirety and suspending further legislative work which is contrary to the interests of our farmers and to common sense. i have been very critical of the draft regulation from the outset, sharing the concerns of european representatives, including the polish agricultural and forestry sector. the most nervous points remain the politically motivated mandatory national reduction targets and the prohibition of plant protection measures on so-called sensitive areas, which have been defined in such a way that, for some member states, they cover most agricultural land. the main objection is the methodology of reduction targets, which, instead of setting, for example, a fixed, absolute limit on the use of plant protection products per hectare, requires a percentage reduction in the use of plant protection products per hectare in each member state.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, the socialist group has fought for many years for a real change in the eu's trade policy and it is right to say that today we have finally succeeded. the free trade agreement with new zealand is the most ambitious and progressive trade agreement ever concluded by the union. and above all for one reason: this is the first agreement to impose sanctions on non-compliance with commitments to sustainable development, namely the paris agreement and the international labour organization conventions. the sustainable development chapters are thus no longer the poor relative in trade agreements. new zealand is an important strategic partner and this agreement is worth more than the volume of trade involved. a massive majority support from this parliament will help to make the eu-new zealand agreement a reference point for the future of trade agreements, for new generation trade agreements truly worthy of that name.
mr president, commissioner, as greens we have been fighting for sustainable trade with respect for man and the environment for years. the trade agreement with new zealand is the most sustainable that europe has negotiated to date. finally, there are sanctions on the table that can help us address violations of the climate agreement and of fundamental labour rights. for the first time, the rights of indigenous peoples are included in a trade agreement and there is also close cooperation on sustainable agriculture and animal welfare. they're in the center. those are really important steps forward. even if we wanted to go further. for example, a concrete step-plan to eliminate fossil fuel subsidies. but unfortunately, europe is now under the ambitions of new zealand. this agreement does not affect any other food system, unlike mercosur, which is destroying the amazon. we're also talking about many smaller volumes. it's only about 10% of the meat in the mercosur deal. the destruction of the amazon, the trampling of indigenous peoples' rights, is not the kind of trade we want. the new zealand deal sets a new minimum standard and we want to see it reflected in all new and existing trade agreements. but we're hearing now that that standard is not feasible for future deals. that is nonsense and we cannot accept it. we believe that trade is a powerful lever for enforcing respect for climate, labour rights and indigenous peoples. and we're not going to dive under that bar any more.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, commissioner, the time is up because that deal has been already concluded in june 2022. and of course, it deepens our relations with the indo-pacific, it strengthens ties with a like-minded ally, bilateral trade is expected to increase by up to 30% and the estimated eu investment increase could be over 80%, and so on and so on. so all this is good news, but unfortunately also rare news because we didn’t finish too many trade deals during this legislature. in less than six months this european parliament comes to an end. therefore, this is one of the last chances for us to show up. the eu is lagging behind in international trade. we must improve our performance in the future. but, for now, please let’s vote for this deal.
in the name of the left faction. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. i am not sure what the commission is going to do with the new measures. but without omitting the risks and the dark sides, i think that this is also about how to make international trade fairer, what standards we want to set for modern trade agreements. and with a far-reaching and enforceable sustainability chapter, the agreement with new zealand undoubtedly addresses an important demand from parliament and civil society. the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment. we have to be clear about the standards we have agreed with our new zealand partners. this is an important step towards a fairer trade policy, and at the same time we could have achieved more: measurable milestones in climate protection, better rules for the liberalization of environmental goods and joint efforts for more sustainable agriculture; and too many parts of sustainability capital are just not accountable. the commission believes that new zealand is just the beginning of many other agreements. my appeal is therefore that instead of celebrating what has been achieved as the new gold standard, we should make sure that it becomes the minimum standard for all future agreements. let us make europe a trading partner that does not operate on the backs of employees, not at the expense of the environment!
i'm here to tell you, madam president, my fellow representatives. the current commission has very little evidence in the field of trade policy. only the euvietnam agreement, which was already being discussed by the previous commission, has been implemented and now we have reached new zealand. that's painfully small. since covid, supply chains have been unsafe. the war has only made the situation worse, endangering european production and jobs. corporations have been calling the alarm for a long time, in vain. the commission is letting the pressure from the left of parliament and setting even more sustainability conditions for the country to barely have any trade with us. are we to assume that the 5 million-strong new zealand is willing to do this? we are glad that this is at least possible, but it will not solve europe's competitiveness problems. its contribution to the security of supply chains is minimal. it also raises the bar so high that parliament is afraid it will oppose any other agreement that does not reach this level. i therefore ask the commission not to use this agreement as the criterion. in the interest of our companies, provide them with new market opportunities. it shall establish fair conditions for partner countries and negotiate and implement the agreements with them under the roof, even during this cycle, between chile, mexico and mercosur.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, this free trade agreement negotiated over the course of four years and signed on 9 july indeed marks a significant milestone in our bilateral relations. it reinforces new zealand aotearoa as a valued trade and investment partner and it strengthens the european union’s presence in the indo-pacific. all in all, as many colleagues have mentioned, this agreement removes trade barriers for companies on both sides, particularly when it comes to tariffs, public procurement and the protection of intellectual property. this promises legal certainty and, hence, ultimately incentives, investment and trade. yet this agreement is not merely a trade and investment deal. it is a testament to shared values and mutual trust between two like-minded partners. just like us, new zealand adheres to the paris climate agreement, new zealand is committed to sustainable development and new zealand is dedicated to core labour standards. in a world facing increasing protectionism, new zealand and the european union have together set a positive example and laid an important foundation for fair, rules-based and sustainable trade. i am glad that all our member states have understood just how important new zealand aotearoa is in this process, and i trust that we will pave the way for the agreement to come into force in the first half of next year.
madam president, with increasing geopolitical risks and reshuffling of global value chains, the eu needs to maintain competitiveness, promote international cooperation, and increase our strategic autonomy. therefore, we warmly welcome the recent eu-new zealand fta. its ratification will send a clear message that we are open and willing to work with partners across the world. however, this cooperation must not only mean strengthening our respective economies, but also addressing common challenges, like those related to sustainability and climate change. with the most progressive text ever adopted in the fta by the european union, with its strong tsd chapter, a broad set of mutually agreed commitments, and a sanctions-based enforcement mechanism, the deal with new zealand should be seen as an ambitious but achievable paradigm for a new generation of trade agreements.
- what? you know i love and respect you very much, but i have to start with a difficult proposition. i think you should investigate in the commission who brought this project, because obviously someone here is trying to make a profit, because this project is really throwing in the trash and trash decades of work, education, investment, finding solutions to really shut down our economy. and suddenly, solutions come along that say we're going to deal with plastic that no one can eliminate anymore. we need to change article 22 and 26 and those articles which delegate or allow the commission to act by delegation, in addition to being designed in such a way that the commission has until the end of december to act by delegation and from 1 january of the following year those provisions are to be in force. you can't build an economy like that. let's be responsible for the people, and let's amend this document during the vote.
thank you, mr president, thank you, mr commissioner. i see the need to update the current legislation to effectively combat overpackaging. the direction that has been taken is the most correct, but the proposed pace of legislative change, coupled with overly ambitious targets, makes it simply impossible in my opinion. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the draft document lacks reference to the various circumstances which exist in each member state. the new objectives should be realistic, measurable, technically feasible, while respecting the concept of sustainable development, and therefore not only environmental but also economic and social aspects. another issue is the need to allow member states the greatest possible flexibility in extended producer responsibility, auction systems and waste management. i also warn against imposing additional administrative burdens that will have a very detrimental impact on entrepreneurs. we should be aware of that. in fact, many of the burdensome obligations contained in the regulation are of no use, provided that packaging is properly collected and recycled.
your honor! we have never before needed a stronger and more efficient european union in the face of threats, in the face of the war that is right next to us. but this document doesn't meet that need, and it weakens our community. mr. verhofstadt, unanimity is not a trap. easier decision-making doesn't mean force. what if ukraine received 51% of the support of the member states, or 66%? would that be stronger support for ukraine or weaker? and for the european union, would it mean strength or division? reforms are needed, but this document is not. we need a common defence policy, a common cybersecurity, because that's the challenge. we need a common health policy, and that's what citizens expect. you've blocked the commission. we need a common energy policy because we had a crisis. donald tusk proposed it in 2014. you were against it. we can do all this without changing the treaty, because the pandemic has shown that we can be effective in dealing with threats. and also on the issue of the war provoked by russia. but you need to be reasonable. i appeal to that reason. the polish delegation and most of the delegations from our region within the european people's party will oppose this document, because even this procedure is not serious. the records of very serious treaty records are changing hourly. we don't even know what we're gonna vote on tomorrow. this is not a serious trial of a serious matter like the treaty amendments. (the speaker refused to hear the question raised by daniel freund)
the question asked by raising a blue sheet. this is the 11th time the orban name has been dropped here. you keep saying that hungary, poland, poland, hungary, hungary, poland are to blame for everything. poland, as a country, has submitted a proposal for the tenth package of sanctions to restrict the diamond trade with russia. putin makes about $300 million a year from the diamond trade with russia. who's blocking the diamond trade with russia? - no, i'm not. - no, belgium. why don't you attack belgium?
mr. president, what is this? your honor! europe is a diverse nation, a diverse culture, a diverse tradition and a diverse language. at one point, european countries decided to work together to ensure greater security, cooperation and prosperity for their citizens. but they agreed to do so with respect for their sovereignty and diversity. and so the european union was born. today in this room we were talking about european citizens, there is no such thing as a european state, even though right now the majority of the liberal-left is trying to convince europeans that they care about their affairs. - no, i'm not. it is the europeans who have the right to decide how to raise their children, what these children will learn in school, how to defend themselves when an enemy is outside their borders. we are interested in building a european union that is stronger by respecting the member states, respecting diversity and building unity in diversity.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the report (doc. but let's be honest: it will not be easy to convince all member states of this and to take the right path to the reforms that will bring about more and better europe and not less and worse. the debate must be held, the negotiations must have a chance. but with a new wave of enlargement in view, we must certainly continue to follow other tracks that lead to more efficiency in our union's policies and actions. i am thinking in particular of a greater political will to make systematic and optimal use of all the possibilities already offered by the treaties, such as the so-called bridge clauses, and of a stronger differentiation of the european integration process.
the decision-making process in the european union is over 20 years old. there was no pandemic, there was no war on our eastern fringes, there was no energy crisis, and there was no need to harmonize some elements of energy policy. few people thought that ukraine's and perhaps moldova's membership of the european union was over. the world is changing. the union must change too. the debate on reform is necessary. the european parliament's voice in debate today is too loud and goes far, too far for some. but instead of making senseless cries about losing sovereignty, we should calmly consider these changes. one thing is certain, the strengthening of european integration, and the consequences of any changes to the treaties, will make a political gangrene like kaczynski's poland or orban's hungary less likely. but we should just be happy about it.
mr president, i want to speak to you. the liberal european democracy is under pressure from within and from without. we're coming to our borders. we want to make the success model of the european union fit for the future and learn from the challenges of yesterday and today. we are committed to the results of the conference on the future of europe. we are taking the presidents of the commission, the council and the european parliament to the floor. you promised us the convent. we want a more effective, more efficient and stronger european union, both inside and outside. we therefore support the adoption of a constitutional convention, we support the elimination of unanimity, we call for european cooperation instead of blockade, for european voting rights, for budgetary sovereignty and for european referendums. let us give the voice of the people a voice tomorrow!
mr. president, what is this? now stop pretending you're interested in europe. this draft treaty is made under article 7 of the german coalition agreement. in particular, a european state is to be created, because, as we read, germany must take greater responsibility for europe. i must remind you that every time germany wanted to take more responsibility for europe, it ended up being a disaster for europe and for them. and today you're walking through the dirt road. previous disasters have always started with the ideology of fighting christianity, nation states and family. and what else do we have in this tract other than to refer to the communist manifesto, which is itself a disgrace? we have this: instead of christianity, mass immigration of sharia law, the elimination of nation states, and the replacement of the family with the word gender. you're not learning anything from history. you're leading europe to another disaster. europe is weakened by you every year militarily, economically and identityally, and you are proposing more of exactly what brought us here. stop this madness.
mr president, 20 years ago, when i was at university, the european union was still for us a place where everyone was equal, and that european union was the place we entered as the slovak republic. this proposal on the table may have some good things, but i think a lot of them are also wrong and not good. but who benefits from it is always the question we ask ourselves in every proposal. why are we making such a proposal? i think the whole discussion needs to be quiet. people don't want some of these proposals and certainly don't want the member states to. we're talking about a consensus that we want to abolish. i am absolutely against the abolition of the right of veto, because it is the right of veto that allows the european union to speak one language, because we always have to agree on some consensus. the reduction in the number of commissioners is also a very good question, which countries will keep those commissioners and whether we will pull it out of the hat like a rabbit or whether it will be decided in advance by the large member states. also, at the beginning of this discussion, it was orbán, then we said it was because of expansion, today we say it's because of trump. i still think we're sitting on a very high horse. we should get out of it, talk to the citizens. and that distrust in the european union is growing not because we don't have the right quick decisions, but because we approve of stupidity.
mr. krasnodubski, people like you have led to the break-in in poland. blocking reform, defending the liberum veto, private over the common good. the marketplace of the 21st century. you're making people's brains water. you know very well that this reform requires the creation of additional eu rapid response forces. you know very well that the point is that the eu should finance arms development. why are you sabotaging the defense union based on nato? the threat to our sovereignty lies to the east, 200 km east of warsaw. why don't you want a european army to be formed that can also defend poland? the kremlin is getting their hands dirty when they see what you're doing here.
it's in writing. in today's debate, the authors of the report are trying at all costs to prove that changes to the treaties are absolutely necessary, positive and inevitable. nothing more wrong. the public opinion is told here that the world has changed so drastically over the last few decades that the european union can no longer function on the principles of the lisbon treaty. the principle of unanimity is under attack here, and it is the guarantee that every member state will be heard and its interests will not be ignored and voted on in a banal way, which is so often the case here in the ep. a group of german politicians plus the former belgian prime minister who prepared a draft amendment to the treaties have long been telling us that the new legislation will be more beautiful and everyone will be happy. they are demonstrating a democratic process of working together on this report, and yet the id group was not even allowed to work on it, and the ecr rapporteur left the group in protest against the extremely undemocratic practices that took place there, which could be long mentioned here. this is the last bell to the member states to look the other way and not support these changes, because it would be the beginning of the end of this community. we need change and reform, but not in this way and not in this way.
it's in writing. the report contains extremely dangerous proposals for amendments to the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union. these proposals are unprecedented. they represent the handing over of power to eu officials and the dictatorship of the largest countries, and de facto germany, at the expense of the middle and smaller countries. they aim to transform the union from a community of sovereign nation states into a centralised european superstate based not on the principles of cooperation and consensus but on coercion. this is not a federation plan at all. the project envisages the creation of two new eu exclusive competencies in the fields of environment and biodiversity, as well as a significant expansion of shared competencies to seven new areas: foreign and security policy, border security, public health, civil defence, industry and education. the proposal calls for a withdrawal from the 65-area unanimity voting system, which means the near complete abolition of the last bastion of sovereignty, the veto. the euro is to become the currency of choice for the member states. the amendments are purely political and ideological and cannot be found in a constitutional document. among them, for example, the substitution of the term "gender equality" in the treaties.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i am not going to say anything. - what? madam president! thank you so much for your voice. we will be constructive as ecrs because, among other things, our transport amendments, for young farmers, for military mobility expenditure have been taken into account. we've done what we can, so we're gonna try to support the budget. but we also stress the problem of the revision of the multiannual financial framework, because without this revision we will have certain problems, for example with the debt repayment increase which is increasingly plaguing the european union. and we also expect that after this review, there will be money for ukraine, very important resources, because ukraine is waiting for these resources. we feel that we have been too much into this whole narrative of the new possibilities of european union debt. we are very afraid of this, that is, we think this is a very bad road and we are also thinking about not falling into this debt trap, especially since many european union countries like greece already have more than 170 percent of gdp debt, italy has 144 percent of debt and poland has 48 percent. so we're going to be constructive and we're going to keep looking.
on behalf of the ecr group. the president! - what? well, i have good news, because today the funds from the reconstruction fund have flowed to poland. well, they've been blocked up until now because you've all been saying that we need to change the law of the judiciary, that we need to change the law of the national council of the judiciary. and then suddenly, it turns out that no law was changed and the money was unlocked. what, gentlemen? what was that about? it was about the hungarian thing. it was illegal political blackmail, using your political power, violating all the rules of the rule of law to force a change of government. and what you're doing is a real breach of the rule of law. because we all know in this room that there is no judicial solution in hungary that would not exist in any other eu country. what you're doing is breaking the law. and i'm sure you'll be held accountable for that sooner or later. because if you use an argument like you're using here that it's about cooperation with russia, we all know very well that germany, france or the netherlands would get their life for it first. so this is not about any rule of law. the point is, you're being bothered by the conservative government in hungary.
i see there is a blue card, but i will not give the floor to the one wanting to raise it. why? i explained it, because ernő schaller-baross has already asked one question, so we go on with the next speaker.
- your honor, madam president, i would like to thank you. welcome to another episode of the hungarian soap opera. i've been fighting the third-grade series for 14 years, and every season is getting weaker. it's incredible, it doesn't contain facts or truth in fragments. they don't care about the people who make or arrange it anymore. it's political blackmail to force hungary to kneel down for standing for peace. we fight against illegal immigration, we protect our children from gender ideology. the luxembourg commissioner also said that the obstacle to a deal on eu funds is our child protection law. the hungarian left, financed from abroad, applauds the bet that it has raised the stakes of preventing the payment of the legitimate funds, failing to fulfil the role of the eu presidency and thus punishing the hungarian people. but we will defend our sovereignty. enough of the increasingly absurd anti-hungarian campaign of building a city of cards. as many in europe expect, change is needed and will happen next june. get your hands off hungary!
- your honor, madam president, i would like to thank you. again, millions of people may be amazed, especially in hungary, but also in other european countries, that once again and again, of course, you can say indirectly, but the impracticability of hungarian citizens is on the agenda in the european parliament. we need to see clearly that today's debate is nothing more than a campaign event pushed by the left, we saw it exactly. above all, those who can make a political career out of ideological hungarian hatred have often been in the race for better places on the left-wing electoral lists. let us not be mistaken, it is not that hungary or other member states cannot be criticized because of a particular situation. but that's not what we're talking about here. the increasingly radical left is trying to blackmail the european commission and the council with desperate but not at all despicable efforts. this is to prevent hungary from accessing the eu funds it receives. unfortunately, i have no doubt, objective debate, as we saw here today, no chance. i hope, however, that after the elections next year, the possibility of democracy and dialogue in the european parliament will be strengthened.
the commissioner is the president. my colleagues and colleagues! the systematic erosion of checks and balances in any member state undermines the essence of our common european values and principles. hungary risks losing almost eur 30 billion in funding by failing to meet the milestones proposed by the commission. it's a huge sum that should be used to develop the country and its people. the example of hungary shows what could have happened in poland, my homeland, if the poles had not removed the ruling party from power on october 15. we too have been threatened with a loss of funds, but the new polish government will effectively prevent this danger. i stress the new government, not the pressure from the european commission, which has always proved too weak. the rule of law will be restored as a result, and with it the values that define the european union.
mr president, dear colleagues, i would like to emphasise the dramatic situation of children in palestine. we cannot be blind. 5000 kids were killed. 700,000 are displaced because their homes have been destroyed. thousands are injured. there is a lack of water, electricity. children have to be protected. but this is not the only situation in gaza strip. in the west bank territory, an 11-year-old girl was sentenced to prison, 12 years – this is cruelty. we have to protect children. we cannot accept it. as the european parliament, we have to react, and i call on european institutions to act and to react. children are innocent and there is no black-and-white scenario. the war is not a solution. we have to protect kids, children. hospitals, schools have to be protected. stop this war.
mr president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, these are crucial times: the negotiations under way seem to lead to a possible truce, a release of the hostages. we hope this happens as soon as possible. this slight optimism, however, leaves room for the immediate observation of a dramatic situation on the ground: more than a month after the criminal hamas attack, the death toll continues to rise in gaza; the absence of essential goods: water, food, medicine, fuel. this dramatic scenario was seen by you, the high representative, and you have, i believe, rightly laid out the path to follow: yes to an immediate cessation of hostilities to ensure the transfer of humanitarian aid to gaza; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. i want to repeat it as i have already said in this chamber: israel has the right to defend itself but not to take revenge and civilians must be protected. europe is demonstrating in practice that it can, if it wants to, speak with its own voice and play an important diplomatic role. let's keep doing this. let's do this for real. there's no time left. we're going to stop this war.
ladies and gentlemen, i have this problem right now: we have our guest speaker today, the prime minister of bulgaria, here in a few minutes. i have a lot of catch the eye word messages i can't take all of them. i am obliged to take five, and here i must proceed to the gender balance and the fractions balance. i would like to ask the council and the commission to respect the time limit. spontaneous wording
mr. president, what is this? i think we should strike a balance in talking about the israeli-palestinian conflict, call for the release of all hostages, demand a ceasefire, criticize israel for retaliating against the palestinians, but strongly condemn hamas and other terrorist organizations. this violence must be ended as soon as possible. it's hard for me to forget a palestinian girl who lost both hands and had a face wounded or the bodies of premature deaths from a lack of electricity. i will not forget the sight of the bodies of jews murdered by hamas. the vision of a stable peace must begin with forgiveness and dialogue.
mr president, i feel the obligation to say several words because i was witness of demolition of the rule of law in poland. as a polish member of this house, i would like to remind you, even from the last month, the case of lex tusk. do you remember? thank you, iratxe, thank you colleagues for your immediate reaction on that. thank you, european commission, mr reynders, for the immediate debate on that because this law was not implemented. so i feel that you still have a chance. i’ve seen millions on the streets, like in poland, like in warsaw, with national and european flags. why? because the rule of law is universal. it’s a european one. there is no spanish rule of law or polish rule of law. there is one democracy and one rule of law, a universal pillar of democracy in europe. and we have to protect it because we are talking not only about spain, but on condition of democracy in europe. and we have to react. and you have still a chance not to go the polish way because this is only a question of time. building the majority by political corruption is a crime and crime has to be punished. this is only a question of time. in poland it will be punished in spain, too. so let’s think about that, because i would like that. if you are talking about the rule of law, you would like to be credible. we have to be credible as a whole house. no a la impunidad. no a la impunidad.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, i want to see you. your honor! on july 23, spain went to sleep democratically, and it woke up separatist. the government is co-creating a nationalistic extremist group that has recently been used to terrorise and now is using exclusion and violence against fellow citizens. it's no wonder the coalition agreement announced a frontal assault on the power tripartite. parliamentary committees are to judge judgments by independent courts and powerful friends of criminals will be granted amnesty. in the meantime, well, the president of the european commission sends congratulations. the members of parliament here, who accept what is happening in spain, are taking away their moral right to speak about the rule of law. pedro sánchez had a choice: rule of law or forming a government. he chose the latter, and the price will be paid by all spanish citizens, especially those of catalonia and the basque country.
mr president, it has been five months since our recommendations to combat the misuse of spyware in europe were presented and adopted. but despite the scale of the phenomenon and the devastating consequences for european citizens and the rule of law, the european commission has still not taken any action. this inaction can't last. you are announcing an initiative and it will be welcomed, because we wonder what the point is in allowing a kind of jungle in europe where digital weapons of various kinds are being deployed and proliferated without hindrance. abuses are also accumulating in many related areas. take france, for example, where media investigations reveal that the national police would illegally use, since 2015, an israeli facial recognition software, which is banned in france. the ministry of the interior would not know how to use this tool, which allows for the analysis of faces filmed in the street and which nobody has bothered to keep the cnil informed. the question is, then, how many spyware scandals, such as those i have just described, do we still have to wait in europe for the commission to act?
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, i want to see you. i understand that the european commission has limited powers and, for example, no committees of inquiry. but that's why we have set up a committee of inquiry here in the european parliament, which, although it did not have all the powers of a committee of inquiry, as we know from the member states, yet we have gathered a huge amount of evidence that the law of the european union is being broken, that citizens are not safe, because the nightmarish practice of sneaking into the lives of private people who are uncomfortable for governments, for dictatorships or for authoritarian governments this practice is thriving. and that's what led to a thorough and accurate report. it was possible not only because of the tremendous work of the delegates, because of the teams of these delegates, but also because of the victims of the wiretapping, who, with the harassment and the various discomfort of those who were listening, testified and told about what had touched them, and helped us in this work. so, commissioner, i wanted to point out one thing and i end by saying that, mr president, the member states must cooperate. right now, in poland, the democratic forces have won, a committee is being formed... (the president took the floor)
mr president, once again in this chamber we ask the commission to take a legislative initiative on the basis of the pega committee's opinion. our work was completed with great effort and after visits to the member states and contacts with the competent authorities. i recall that my country greece, but also cyprus, unlike other countries, cooperated directly with the members of the committee and provided information on all the cases under consideration. i would also like to remind you that greece was the first to legislate a ban on the import, use, sale and distribution of illegal software and to tighten the criminal treatment of its use. it is important that there is similar legislation in all member states. but, commissioner, we need a european framework for the confidentiality of communications and the protection of personal data that guarantees the security of all european citizens. it is imperative that it be completed by the end of this parliamentary term in the run-up to the european elections in june 2024.
mr president, commissioner reynders, when you have heard in this european parliament a polyphony of voices from different groups of parliament, the conclusion is that you have actually heard a symphony with the same score in essence. the commission has already adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of certain dangerous goods. we want a common standard on national security so that this concept cannot be invoked in vain in order to suppress fundamental rights to privacy of communications and confidentiality of personal data. we must therefore start working as soon as possible, because it is absolutely urgent that european legislation be put in place to ensure that the pegasus commission of inquiry, with its conclusions, has really served to improve the level of protection of fundamental rights for europeans.
mr. president, what is this? the debate about pegasus, and the whole pis fell to the ground. there's no one here, not kempy, not tarczynski, former members of the pega committee. and that's all they had to say. i have good news for them, though. first, a commission of inquiry into the pegasus affair will begin work in the polish sejm soon. second, it will be a regular regular seam committee of inquiry. not witch hunts, but honest explanations of evil and misuse of the law. first, the commission's verification, and then the free, independent courts. because even though the pis are our political opponents, we're not going to use underhanded tricks. but we have to count those eight long years when the opposition, lawyers, or activists were being monitored by pegasus, and the government media was getting the material directly from the services. and even more so, we have to respect the citizens of poland who showed this total power a red card on october 15. the whole of europe is proud of this change in poland.
i have received two draft resolutions submitted in accordance with rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure1. i'm closing the debate. the vote will be held on thursday 23 november 2023. the meeting minutes shall be read. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 171.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on: the question requiring an oral reply to the council by alexander bernhuber, milan brglez, martin hoysik, michèle rivasi, anna hazekamp on behalf of the committee on environment, public health and food safety on the amendment of the insect pollinators initiative the new order for pollinators (o-000050/2023 - b9-0032/23) (2023/2720 ((rsp)) and the question requiring an oral reply to the commission by alexander bernhuber, milan brglez, martin hoysik, michèle rivasi, anne hazekamp on behalf of the committee on environment, public health and natural safety (o-000020/2023) the amendments to the commission's oral protection, public health and safety initiative (o-000020/2323) the amend
i have received one draft resolution submitted in accordance with rule 136 (5) of the rules of procedure1. i'm closing the debate. the vote will be held on thursday 23 november 2023. the meeting minutes shall be read. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 171.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six draft resolutions on recent attacks on women and women's rights defenders and arbitrary detentions of european citizens in iran (2023/2979(rsp)) 1._______1 see the minutes of the meeting.
only one member, mr jiří pospíšil, has applied for the catch-the-eye procedure. i'm very sorry. - one minute. - what?
thank you very much, mr. slater. the commission shall be represented by the vice-president of the commission, commissioner dubravka šuica.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will be held on thursday 23 november 2023.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six draft resolutions on the unlawful detention of president mohamed bazoum in niger (2023/2980(rsp)) 1._______1 see the minutes of the meeting.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will be held on thursday 23 november 2023.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the five draft resolutions on the murder of georgian citizen tamasz ginturi by russian occupation forces in georgia (2023/2981 ((rsp)) 1._______1 see the minutes of the meeting.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will be held on thursday 23 november 2023.
the next item on the agenda is the explanations on voting.
thank you very much, mr. slater. that's where we ended this agenda item. the next meeting will be held tomorrow, thursday 23 november 2023 at 9.00 a.m.
the order of the meetings has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the minutes of today's meeting will be submitted to parliament for approval tomorrow, early afternoon. i'm closing the meeting. i wish you all a good night.
mr. president, what is this? this is the fifth and last time we meet in this capacity in the 16 days of anti-violence against women". but for the first time, we can tell women across the european union: we've succeeded, we've succeeded in effectively protecting our rights. we have successfully expanded the catalogue of rights and freedoms to include the istanbul convention, which is the constitution for the rights of women experiencing violence. but ratification of the convention took too long. for too long, europeans have had to wait for a clear signal that the union is on their side. they're taking the victim's side, not the perpetrators. and that's not the end of it. we need broader, stronger, more comprehensive legal guarantees. we need laws that protect every woman from all forms of gender-based violence, including cyber-violence and rape. such a law could be a good, progressive directive on combating violence against women and domestic violence. and this directive cannot be the result of party compromises. violence against women is the most extreme form of gender discrimination. and equality and human rights are the most important values of our community. the content of the directive must therefore be a bold manifest of the european union. we must give a clear signal that the european union is a world leader in women's rights. because there is no rule of law, there is no european union without equality and human rights.
mr. president, what is this? - what? - my colleagues and colleagues! yes, indeed, for the fifth time we meet to shout, to appeal, to recall statistics, to talk about violence. but we owe it to our colleagues, mothers, sisters to be in their offices every day, not just on international holidays, with their governments and with the pressure on the government, on their actions. what i've been missing for the last five years is this kind of system analysis. because it's not enough to give you the scale data. we need information about how education works, how social care works, how justice works, why in different systems it doesn't work. we live in the 21st century. women are bright, educated. they know their value. i want to show you an example of this kind of action, because here in poland, we were able to agree. there are rules already in place. there are others, for example, that completely and immediately separate the abuser from the woman. under these rules, a person who uses physical violence, poses a threat to the life or health of a household member, must leave the apartment immediately by a police decision. he's also been banned from the home for 14 days, and the courts have tools to help him get a faster trial. indeed, the police and military gendarmerie have been given new powers. in addition, it was determined that the victim was in a particularly traumatic situation. therefore, even during the interrogation, she needs special care. and that's what we're offering polish women. i want it to look like this all over europe. we're together here. there's no division.
mr. speaker, what is this? violence against women and girls continues. it's structural. it affects us all. it limits the lives of girls and women and others who are victims of gender-based violence. i'm thinking about the lgbtq community, too. this violence, it's killing lives. the judiciary and our laws must be strengthened. there must be support for those who are exposed. i'm talking specifically about the women's rights movement, which should have more resources and real recognition. we need a strong feminist movement that stands up for women's rights, that stands up for girls. we also need to be very clear about men and boys. the masculinity of the future cannot contain violence. it certainly cannot include the right to buy women in prostitution. it's a form of violence. we at european level have the opportunity to take political responsibility now. we have legislation against trafficking in persons, against trafficking in persons, which includes trafficking in women and girls. we have to adopt it. we have a proposal for legislation, a directive against gender-based violence, which contains consent legislation that could become a reality throughout europe. we have to take that opportunity now. just a "yes" is a "yes".
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is a debate that concerns everyone and should involve all men and women. violence against women is one of the most common and systematic human rights violations rooted in our society. the european union countries are no exception. sadly, one in three women has experienced physical or sexual violence, mostly by intimate partners. the union has promoted a number of initiatives and actions, but the numbers are alarming and the scale of the problem takes many forms, from physical, emotional, financial, reproductive and even cyber-violence. this violence has a major impact on victims and imposes significant costs on society, estimated at €290 billion a year in the european union. the instruments set up by the united nations and the council of europe, including the istanbul convention, are references to efforts to combat violence, but they are not sufficient if they are not accompanied by a holistic and serious policy involving all actors in society. i welcome the european strategy for gender equality 2020-2025 and look forward to the final text of the negotiations with the council on the directive on combating violence against women and domestic violence. although there are similarities between national policies to combat violence against women, member states have taken different approaches to the problem. we urgently need more europe, with one voice, to eliminate violence against women.
mr. president, what is this? anti-violence law from katowice to lisbon. together with arba kokalari, we have led the parliament to adopt the istanbul convention throughout the union. i'm shoulder to shoulder with a social democrat and a wanker. beyond the divisions in voting: the coalition of women's rights, the left, liberals, conservatives and greens. but we can't just sit on the laurels. we need an ambitious directive to combat gender-based violence. let's be brave, you know? look at poland. as you know, recently, there was an election with an incredible, high turnout. women went out in crowds, and their voices were taken seriously, the voices of the women who trusted us. that's why we're not gonna drop the abortion case. the left has already tabled two bills that would liberalize abortion rights and decriminalize abortion aid. we're fighting for women's rights whether you like it or not.
one small note for all those who are listening to today's european parliament session: you cannot, under the rules of procedure, reward praise speakers.
the european union is a very important part of the european union, and we are all very much in agreement with the commission. the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. too often the date of the european elections has been the summit of national elections, where the weight of proposals for the union is too marginal in the debate and in the common sense. of course, much progress has been made, but we need a stronger momentum and a renewed responsibility from parties and candidates. the democratic link between the electorate's choice and the appointment of the next president of the commission must be strengthened, which, i remind the honourable members, must be proposed on the basis of the results of the elections. the next parliament will therefore have the political responsibility to agree on strong proposals on the figures it has jurisdiction over and to start negotiations with the european council.
the commissioner is the president. this project is another attempt to take power away from the member states and give it to bodies such as the european commission. and the funny thing about it is that you say you're doing it in the name of democracy. so democracy, you think, is about taking power away from people at the level of countries where their voter turnout is much higher than here, and giving it to bodies like the european commission, bodies without any democratic legitimacy. so as we increase democracy, it's going to be less and less. i think the leaders of the soviet union would be proud of your logic. moreover, the european union is not a state, it has only the powers conferred on it by the states. so they're the master of treaties, and you're putting everything on your head. with the sovereignty of the states, you're petitioning the european bureaucracy. and this is not a democratic system, this is an oligarchic system that you want to build, and we will never allow that.
president. - very few people are running for the european elections. in the whole of the union, only half of the electorate is represented. in the netherlands, it is barely 40%. i hear colleagues say that the rise must be made. but the proposals in this report will not succeed. since 2014, you have been pushing the top candidate system: paneuropean listmakers who nobody knows travel through the eu and debate with each other. the population is just not interested at all. the only enthusiasts are here: that's you. the rapporteur, however, wants to suppress this system by imposing campaigns and manifestos on pan-european political parties, for example. the more we impose on the eu, the more the european population will be interested in us, the idea seems to be that way. the opposite is true. if we are to strengthen the bond between voters and elected representatives, we must reduce the distance as much as possible. i would therefore like to leave the european elections to national parties and national politicians as much as possible.
madam president, i agree that the campaign for the next european elections should focus on this dimension. insisting on the headline proposal is one way to do it. putting european values into the process, too. the union's motto is 'united in diversity' and therefore the regulation governing the election of members of the european parliament includes guarantees that the national minorities to which we belong of 50 million european citizens are represented in this parliament. i have been elected in a state with a single constituency, although it includes at least three nationalities that meet the requirements laid down in the rules of procedure to lower the thresholds for awarding seats. the best way to do that is to adapt the constituencies to that reality. in the last convention on the future of europe, citizens stressed that the linguistic, cultural and institutional diversity of the union is far greater than that of its member states. applying these guarantees will help to fulfill this civic claim.
the commissioner is the president. the proposals for the votes on the leading candidate system underline our commitment to seeking new and strengthened democratic processes and to promote their transparency. the debate focuses on the mechanism for electing the commission president, a fundamental aspect of strengthening the voice of citizens. the call for a binding agreement between parliament and the european council on the process of selecting the main candidate is a key step towards strengthening the democratic fabric of our union. this process involving the heads of european political parties and their parliamentary counterparts aims to establish a common candidate, to represent the collective will of the citizens. it is clear that this will also be important for increasing voter turnout and thus for strengthening democratic representation. our aim is to have a union where the electoral system embodies the aspirations of a united, vibrant, democratic europe.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will be held on tuesday 12 december 2023. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 171.
it's in writing. in my speech, i would like to draw attention to equality in the access to elections for people with disabilities. in the petition committee of which i am a member, we receive numerous complaints about legal, practical and physical obstacles to the effective exercise of the right to vote and to be elected, as well as the right to access information on electoral rules and procedures, electoral programmes and debates in formats adapted to the needs of people with disabilities of all kinds. this makes people with disabilities still underrepresented in elections. the european parliament has also repeatedly highlighted the problem of exclusion of persons with disabilities from this area of social life in its documents, including in its citizenship report, adopted by parliament in march 2022, on which i served as rapporteur for the epl group. i look forward and hope to interinstitutional cooperation for a fully accessible election. i am also looking forward to the european commission's guide to good practice. i would like to see the european parliament elections next year set an example for everyone on how to conduct elections in the european union correctly and without discrimination.
the commission will also consider the possibility of a new tax system to be implemented in the future.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will be held on tuesday 12 december 2023.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation (ec) no 1069/2009 on the common organisation of the market in electricity and gas (oj l 178, 20.10.2009, p. 1).
the president, the commissioner! let's give small modular reactors a chance because we want europe to be energy self-sufficient, industrially developed, efficient, all with the least possible climate impact. let's give small modular reactors a chance and lead the systemization process and set the highest safety and security standards. because we want what is best for europe and we want to feel safe in our homes, now is the time to analyze and choose the most efficient and safe nuclear technology. let's give small modular reactors a chance and make sure that this technology is used in three generations to light our cities, to heat and cool our homes, and to increase hydrogen production. and let's make sure these reactors are co-owned by the citizens so that the profits from cheap energy production go into the pockets of ordinary citizens.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will be held on tuesday 12 december 2023. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 171.
the next item on the agenda is a brief presentation of the report by henna virkkunen on behalf of the transport and tourism commission on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 561/2006 as regards minimum requirements for minimum breaks and daily and weekly rest periods in the occasional passenger transport sector (com (2013) 0256 - c9-0178/2023 - 2023/0155 (cod)) (a9-0370/2023).
in may, madam president, i asked the commission a written question to explain the financing it has provided to islamist organisations. in response, the commission assured me that there is currently no eu-funded project for these organisations. however, one month before this response, islamic relief was appointed as a project coordinator under the erasmus+ programme. even worse, according to a parliamentary report, islamic relief has received more than €40 million in european funds. i would remind you that this islamist organization has transferred millions of dollars to hamas and that according to the german government, it has strong ties to the muslim brotherhood. the commission is not only directly financing islamism with the money of the citizens, but it is also lying to the elected members of parliament, who are the only representatives of the people here. the european commission is therefore a direct accomplice of islamism and is responsible for terrorist attacks that cause pain to the citizens of our continent when they do not destroy their lives. i would like to ask you to be sure that we will not let these serious mistakes and deceitful acts of shame on democracy go unpunished by the french members of the group identité et démocratie.
i would like to say that, mr president, if you say that the commission is an accomplice to the islamists, then this is a language which should not be used in this chamber. i hope someone translates this for you.
madam president, all over europe the air is brown, it is smelly and dangerous. fanatics of fascist, racist and anti-semitic groups are taking to the streets, and racism is once again taking its place in the public debate, in more polished but no less abject forms, between people of good society who, without complexity, invoke the defense of values to legitimize deep racism. everything has become good in europe to overwhelm all the ills of the arabs, muslims, immigrants, treated as less than nothing, but responsible for everything. even deviating from expressing its horror at the unnamed suffering of the palestinian people is enough to make you a supporter of terrorism or islamism. it is a very important point to make, and i think that we should all be prepared to do so.
i would like to speak to you, madam president, colleagues, about the situation of farmers in the visegrad area in the east of the european union. i think we should protect these farmers, not destroy them, as is now common practice, because they provide food security for all of us in the east. i am speaking for four countries now: slovakia, the czech republic, hungary and poland. i would like to address the farmers of these countries who just last weekend met in tatras, slovakia, where they also adopted a common position which i would like to present to you. these farmers are asking us to stop the crazy imports of products from ukraine because they are really destroying our farming in the east. our farmers are suffering, their costs are constantly rising and they are unable to sell their produce further. and they're really flooded with products and products from this country, where ukrainian farmers don't have to meet standards like us, they don't have to deal with quotas, and so on, because they don't have those quotas right now. i would like to ask that we really think about reviewing the quota-free or duty-free system with ukraine, which will be in place until june next year. if we want to support people in regions and on farms, we really should give them an opportunity.
madam president, i would like to take this one-minute speech to comment on the international olympic committee's decision to include russian and belarusian athletes in the 2024 paris olympics. this decision is disappointing. it's a disappointment to those who see the suffering of the ukrainian people, who see russian aggression, which also affects athletes. more than 200 athletes who might have been in the olympics died there. it's a disappointment for those of us who respect the olympic principles and want the olympic games to be true to those principles of peace and fair sport. i can appreciate the fact that the international olympic committee has put forward a number of conditions, but we ask: how will these conditions be enforced? how will the olympic committee ensure that athletes are not part of the military security forces? how will they know these athletes are not supporting russian aggression? these are questions that the international olympic committee must answer.
madam president! three years ago, during a debate on ethnic and cultural diversity, i used the silesian language for the first time in history, the silesian language, here in the european parliament. and he's still standing here because they're still saying in warsaw that we don't exist, that there's no right to be a silesian language, that there's no silesian nation. but in the meantime, in the general census in poland, almost 600,000 people declared their silesia identity. we, the silesia, are the largest unrecognized ethnic minority in poland, citizens of poland with silesia identity. in the czech republic, 30,000 people have declared themselves ethnic silesian. that's why it's time to recognize the silesia as an ethnic minority. legalising our language. it is time to promote the development of sicilian culture throughout europe. silesia is part of a united europe. we're on our own, we're on our own.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i am not going to say anything. - what? poland is a producer of two raw materials which are extremely important in the process of energy transformation: coke coal, which is necessary for the production of steel, and copper, which is necessary for the production of cables and semiconductors. in the context of difficult but effective negotiations in the european parliament, which i thank you for, coke coal has been maintained as a critical raw material. the exceptional role of coal for the european economy is also recognised by officials of the european commission. thank you, mr. commissioner. the european energy transformation needs steel, it needs copper and many other key raw materials, which must be sought primarily in europe. but the most important thing is to adapt the pace of this transformation to the technological capabilities and resources of our continent. the rapid, revolutionary pace of change is leading to the flight of companies and the deindustrialization of the european union. the european economy will not be attractive or exemplary to anyone if it turns out to be a history of ideology's victory over common sense. and i'm glad that the critical raw materials regulation is a sign of sound economic thinking. i am pleased with the prospects for the largest european coke coal producer, the yastrian coal company. i would like to congratulate the miners from silesia from the european parliament. we did it.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, i want to see you. your honor! the assumptions and work on this regulation are extremely important, very important. the act aims to boost, inter alia, union extraction of raw materials, diversify the supply of critical raw materials to the european union, strengthen the closed-loop, including recycling, and support research and innovation in resource efficiency and the development of substitutes. these are very important issues that are addressed in this document. i wanted to draw attention to one thing that is linked to the increase in eu extraction of raw materials. but will we be able to do this in the meantime, as we lead to the liquidation of the mining sector in the european union? our climate policy of systematically eliminating the mining and surrounding mining industry, the institutional, academic backdrop, is somewhat at odds with the assumptions of this act, which are very important. in a few years, it may be that without managing staff, without equipment, without mining companies around us, we will have a secondary dependence on third-country raw materials.
mr president, my colleagues! in principle, it's always a good idea to be independent. this is true in all areas, but especially in the case of raw materials. i am simply not convinced that this regulation will achieve this objective. why did we even become dependent on chinese raw materials? because on the other hand, we have been turning europe's mining back for years and decades. and independence, my dear colleagues, does not mean that we will get chinese raw materials through third countries. the best example and the debacle we see here is russia. we are getting russian gas and oil through third countries. congratulations, that worked out well. the eu has simply fallen asleep in its efforts to take care of energy sources in time, while the chinese, on the other hand, have been opening up new markets to this issue for years. so everyone else was faster than us, my colleagues, and the timing was simply missed.
mr president, lithium literally moves mountains and in some cases, like portugal, even topples governments. therefore, all the rigour, all the demand, all the scrutiny in relation to the exploitation and provisioning of critical raw materials will always be little to ensure the public interest. but in view of this evidence, what does the european union do? it establishes as a rule that the economic interest of a few can override the public interest of all. the interests of a minority are transformed into privileged regimes that attack the rights of the population and the environment. this creates a legal subterfuge in the european union that allows the unlimited predation of resources and the planet and the continued disregard for human rights. no, this is not, nor can it be the way.
mr president, whether it is smartphones or solar panels, critical raw materials are part of our daily lives. metals such as lithium and cobalt have become the key issues in the geopolitical arena. the whole range of crises we are going through is only making this trend worse. it is therefore essential that the european union reduce its dependence on third countries for raw materials and strengthen its own supply chains. it is also important to note that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights in the field of social security. this is a chance to re-establish a european strategic vision which will also incorporate the principle of vigilance, which we have strongly supported here.
mr president, dear colleagues, dear commissioner, cher thierry, i want to congratulate and to thank commissioner breton and also our rapporteur and the negotiating team for the quick, constructive and successful negotiation. several legislative proposals were high on the agenda this autumn in the remit of industry, but the proposal related to the critical raw materials act is one of the most important, and i am glad to see its final adoption. the act will ensure the supply of critical raw materials for strategic industry sectors and thereby contribute to the union’s strategic goals, green deal digitalisation, but also industrial independence, by mitigating the risks for supply chains, and ultimately enhance the union’s economic resilience. one of the most efficient ways to strengthen european industrial resilience and reduce dependencies is to diversify supply chain and invest into research. i echo that further support measures should be put in place to support research and innovation for material substitutions, including sustainable supplies in trade agreements and two strategic partnerships for raw materials. i believe it is important that the critical raw material act will establish lists of strategic raw materials and critical raw materials based on their economic importance and supply risk, and will implement faster permitting. as regulators, it is our privilege and duty to improve the resilience of the union and the field of industry is one that we should further improve, as it is at the core of the economy and should be prosperous to support our european way of life.
mr president, mr commissioner, ensuring a safe and sustainable supply of critical raw materials is a key condition for the european union to implement an open strategic autonomy strategy and is a global benchmark in this multipolar and multilateral way of consolidating its independence as a prerequisite for a healthy and meaningful independence. i welcome the broad consensus reached in the commission debate on the fundamental principles of action, in particular: focusing on research and innovation to find new materials and processes that are more sustainable and more competitive and reduce pressure on resources; the integrated approach and monitoring of value chains from extraction to processing and recycling; transparency and de-bureaucratization of licensing processes; the definition of strategic partnerships with third countries, based on the principle of diversification of sources of supply and active cooperation, generating mutual benefits and refusing extractive practices and not taking due account of due diligence. at a time of great geopolitical tension, this strategic framework is good for the economy, it is good for the environment and it is good for people.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. we are putting the critical raw materials regulation on the road. i would have been a big fan of it if we had called it somehow the heavy metal law or something that's just more appealing to the citizens of europe. but did we blow the whole thing? not so sure. yeah, of course it's a little better than before. of course we're setting rules. but when i was in kolwezi this summer, on the edge of the biggest copper mine in africa, i told you about it, and you can see what environmental impact mining really has. and he has not been with us in europe and i wonder why the conservatives have been so reluctant to establish international standards? volunteers and in the light of the situation, given prior consent this is a un standard that we could have simply taken with us, now we have only a vague approximation to it. and yes, of course we need a veto in the broadest sense for the communities concerned in the mining region, because they are the ones who must ultimately agree to the whole thing. if we don't make offers that are good enough, then that's our fault, and then we have to go back in there with a better offer. so, yes, it's guaranteed to improve, but still a lot of air up.
mr president, dear commissioner, today we address the critical raw materials act, a vital initiative for europe’s industry and economic prosperity. our innovation-led continent has up to now been overly reliant on external sources for materials essential to technologies like chips, electric vehicle batteries or renewable energy systems. i believe this act will create a new dynamic, reducing our dependency on imports that pose risks to our economic security, and increasing european ambitions, especially in the digital sphere. from the internal market perspective, i welcome the new provisions regarding large companies that will now assess risks in their supply of key raw materials, aiming to prevent any disruptions in supply chains that could affect consumers. i am confident that by making rules clearer for companies and reducing existing burdens, we can significantly boost business growth, particularly in sectors crucial to our technological and economic development.
mr. speaker, our economies cannot function in the long term without a secure, competitive and environmentally friendly supply of critical raw materials. strategic autonomy in all sectors is therefore of utmost importance for the future of our european family. learned by experience and dependence on russian energy, this week in the european parliament we are responding to china's increasingly aggressive trade practices and passing a law to reduce our dependence on more efficient resource use, sustainable products and innovation. if we are to achieve the objectives of the european green plan, we must also ensure critical raw material supply chains and, in parallel, mitigate the consequences of increased demand for them by improving efficiency and recycling existing minerals. the adoption of this law brings us one step closer to achieving european strategic autonomy and strengthening our position in current and future geopolitical upheavals.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, the occasion for today's discussion on the efficient and effective work, and the entire team that has worked with him. the agreement reached with the council and the commission has a number of very important elements which i would like to highlight today in this final debate. first, it promotes refining, recycling, recycling and replacement in europe, within europe's borders, which is an extremely important element in the direction of our policy. the administrative burden for companies operating in this field is reduced. the act takes into account the need to provide financial incentives for the development of clean and efficient production technologies for critical raw material projects. it also proposes a framework for strategic partnerships on critical raw materials with third countries and will make the eu a desirable partner internationally.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. the transition to climate neutrality requires a more conscious use of our raw materials. critical raw materials are essential for the production of environmental technologies and for digitisation. in particular, technological progress and the more efficient use of our resources along the entire value chain must play a central role and are accordingly also enshrined in the critical raw materials regulation. one of the more efficient uses is the circular principle. the aim is to increase the recovery of critical raw materials through waste prevention, reuse, repair, reprocessing and reuse of products. however, there must be an attractive alternative for businesses. this is why it is all the more important to promote continuous research and innovation in order to ensure that the use of raw materials is both sustainable and ethical and economically responsible. but the circular principle alone cannot guarantee a secure supply of critical raw materials. we will continue to be dependent on imports from third countries. the commission has also adopted a number of proposals for a new framework for the development of the european union's energy infrastructure. we must now work together to find solutions, build strong and reliable partnerships and rethink innovative ways of using critical raw materials sustainably. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs.
mr. president, what is this? without silesia's industry and new jobs in upper silesia, there will be no eu energy transformation. without coke, there would be no steel needed for wind turbines and railroad development. it is the hard work of 30,000 people at the yastrzbsk coal company that produces nearly 14 million tons of coal a year. our industry is strategic for the whole of europe because it meets 25% of the eu market needs. that's the facts. coal on the union's list of critical raw materials is a polish and european standard. that's common sense. as well as hundreds of new wind turbines that used raw materials from silesia to produce. poles are the sixth most populous nation in the world among wind turbine technicians. it's time to take advantage of these opportunities. it's time for an ambitious poland with clean air and vibrant silesia industry. it's possible, and it's not ruled out. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising a blue sheet)
blue-card question. – colleague, you have explained how much polish coal stands at the centre of our future. my question is: for how long do you think should we stick to the coal approach that you are advocating? 10 years? 20 years? 50 years?
answer to the question asked by raising a blue sheet. as regards the energy transformation in poland and the coal sector in upper silesia, a social agreement, that is, an agreement between trade unions, is on the table, which negotiated with the polish government the year 2049 for certain mines. but when it comes to coal coke, it's a little bit of a different story, because like i said, coal is a strategic material and it's very much needed for steel production, so it's better to use this coal coke from poland, from silesia, to make steel, rather than import it from china.
on behalf of the ecr group. the president! the honourable commissioner! when i read the original draft of the european commission over a year ago, i was wondering if this very complex and innovative project had any chance of succeeding and if it didn't interfere too much with our privacy or our national health systems. i must admit, however, that the envi and libe joint committees have managed to develop a text which greatly improves the commission's text. thank you to the reporters for their good cooperation. i particularly appreciate the expansion of patient control over data storage and sharing. our text also strengthens the system of supervision and monitoring of the security of data collection, storage and sharing at the level of national supervisors. we have thus managed to seal the provisions of many articles of the regulation in accordance with a principle i have often pointed out: first, the security of data processing. i also welcome the reasonable narrowing of the scope of reuse of data. the so-called opt-out should help build citizens' confidence in the system. in the forthcoming tripartite negotiations, i will support solutions that maximise the security of processing of this data and minimize the objectives of processing. i would like to thank all the counter-proposers, especially the rapporteurs, for their good cooperation and i hope that we have a good basis for negotiations with the council and that the draft will have the majority tomorrow.
the president, the commissioner! data in today's modern economy is the key to success. the european union's single market for patient medical information in 2020 was worth eur 160 billion. therefore, it is so important to build up a system for their use and above all a system of protection. the protection of sensitive data is key in this regulation. we cannot allow patients to be denied access to their data and to withdraw voluntarily with such a significant regulation. the final decision must always be made by the patient. the patient must be able to act at all times. there are many very important issues throughout the regulation, in particular with regard to the further transmission and use of anonymous data. the second important issue concerns the results of medical tests and trials and their use by companies. it is very important that a compromise was reached on this issue of value to all parties. we also want to thank everyone for the hard work they put into this document.
madam president, madam commissioner, you are using every crisis to advance your integration project. the migration crisis? the european union is presenting its immigration pact to directly tackle the sovereignty of the member states by imposing and organising mass immigration into europe. the war in ukraine? the european union proposes to acquire a stockpile of european ammunition. the first step, of course, is to create a european army, which will have its hands on the military arsenal of france, the only country in the european union to possess nuclear weapons. what about the covid-19 health crisis? despite the many scandals, studies and contracts for opaque vaccines, the european union seizes the opportunity to start the process of giving health competence to the states, and proposes the european health area as the first step. their projects are not guided by the general interest, but by reasons of power and money. behind these beautiful phrases and deceptive intentions lies the devilish plan to subject the peoples and nations of europe to their ideological and commercial vision of man and life.
the president, the commissioner! this is a very important and good report. the european health data area combines the realisation of the union's ambition to become more involved in health with the development of digital services, to build our competitiveness in the global economy. this is a realization of the announcement of the plan to fight cancer, among others, a key position of the european people's party. but above all, we're protecting the privacy, cybersecurity, control of patients' data. health data will be tracked efficiently and safely by the patient, regardless of which union country is receiving care. researchers working on new therapies will have access to a wider pool of research data, which has so far limited the development of orphan medicines and rare diseases, and will allow them to use modern technologies, including artificial intelligence, more effectively in their research. we cannot waste social support for a greater union involvement in the health sector created after the covid-19 pandemic, where joint action has proven more effective than competitive price action. i therefore hope that in the vote tomorrow this report will gain support.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we europeans are hardworking people, but after a long day of work, nobody really wants to be in the chair next to his boss. yet, for many people today, that is the reality. whatsapp and other chats provide a continuous flow of messages between colleagues and with bosses. that is why parliament asked three years ago for a law on the right to disconnect workers. today, women still take up most of the household chores, and they must not be left with the choice between paying attention to their boss or paying attention to their child. or look at our teachers and our students: they're all in the smart school all the time these days. this is the way distances disappear and our teachers are also at a loss. who didn't realize it? our labour market is changing rapidly. digitalization and telecommuting increase the risk of burnout. and we really can't miss that good workforce in a tight labor market. every employer will be proud of that. clear rules on when to be available also increase productivity and this is of course very important for employers. digitalisation can help us all, but it must be tailored to the needs of people, not the other way around. legal prevention and protection are therefore essential. the european social consultation has unfortunately become stuck and we are now looking to the commission to take an initiative as soon as possible. look at the sectoral agreement on public services where that social dialogue was successful. but most of all: i would like to see this legislation come up with a law on the right to disconnect. because prevention is better and yes, even cheaper than cure.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i am not going to say anything. your honor! an employee cannot be a slave to a computer and a phone. everyone must have the right to a so-called break-up and there can be no situation where a person returning from work is forced to remain in a proverbial expectation of contact, email or message. everyone has the right to his or her own family life, to spend his or her free time not only on saturdays and sundays. member states should indeed introduce minimum standards for the protection of workers remaining in telework. and here's the full agreement. however, i have been having a lot of doubts lately about the issue of some sort of overregulation by the european union. therefore, if such rules are to be drawn up, they must be preceded by a wide debate in the member states, data on the labour market situation and the situation in the individual member states of the european union must be collected, and this summary must be included. so, in short, for freedom from computers and phones, for a balanced work-family life, because health, chronic stress are today's occupational diseases. the commission therefore considers that the commission should also take into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation.
on behalf of the ecr group. the president! we all agree, of course, that our european democracy must effectively prevent foreign interference in the electoral processes of the member states. but we also know how much money putin's regime has spent on corrupting influential communities in the european union to build russian influence zones. we know how many former prime ministers, ministers, even chancellors have been and are in charge of the kremlin. we know how many, including those in this house, have been corrupted by governments in the gulf region or north africa. we know how dangerous chinese influence is on our continent. but i would like to draw your attention to something particularly dangerous and unacceptable. how many actions have been taken by the european institutions, including the european commission, the european parliament, against governments in those countries where citizens have democratically elected to hand over power to parties outside the brussels-based majority establishment? how many outrageous words have fallen from this place in this house, also from the mouths of representatives of the european commission, against the government, for example law and justice in poland. what a scandalous word about the financial necessity to starve the orban governments or the law and justice governments in poland. how many outrageous words, even from the mouth of the head of the european commission, were directed at the citizens of italy before the elections, to prevent them from choosing a party that is not from the brussels establishment. your honor! this type of action is as dangerous to european democracy as the influence of third countries. because it can't be that democracy is that everyone can rule, provided they come from your majority. it is the citizens who decide in the member states, not the establishment in brussels.
mr. president, what is this? in the face of this next revelation of this biblical conflict between the sons of abraham, between the descendants of isaac and ishmael, we know one thing today, that the european union's response to these events should, in my opinion, be a threefold one. first, israel should be called upon to comply with international law and international humanitarian law. second, call for another permanent humanitarian break in war operations. third, increasing the necessary humanitarian assistance for the people of the gaza strip. as a european union, we must protect the two-state solution and try to revive the political process. the peace day effort initiative, supported by regional arab partners whose active role is key to the future of gaza, is the best framework we have at our disposal today. and finally, israel's maximalist goals, like destroying hamas, are hard to achieve, especially if we already know today that these multi-million-dollar funds are being transferred via qatar from israel to hamas, to fight and play the palestinian authority, the authorities in ramallah against the hamas authorities in gaza. soon we will have to face the reality that nothing will remain in the gaza strip and two million people will be pushed to the egyptian border. it's over now. mr. high representative! no one in this house is talking about this active devil that has led to this conflict escalating. that devil is putin in the kremlin. he was the one who contacted the... he was the one who destabilized the middle east...
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. –mr president, honourable members, allow me to continue in spanish. i feel much more comfortable. les he escuchado con mucha atención durante más de una hora y he podido percibir hasta qué punto hay puntos de vista diferentes sobre este dramático conflicto. ciertamente estamos viviendo un momento dramático de la historia del conflicto entre israel y palestina y, desde el punto de vista humanitario, desde el punto de vista político, tenemos que hacer un esfuerzo para intentar ir más allá de las emociones e intentar encontrar soluciones. mi posición no es fácil, señorías, porque yo represento a las posiciones comunes en materia de política exterior de la unión europea. cuando las hay. y cuando no las hay, trato de contribuir a construirlas. y, por lo tanto, muchas veces me plantean preguntas que no puedo contestar porque mi respuesta personal no tiene ningún valor más que el mío propio, para mí mismo, y que, desde el punto de vista de la institución política a la que represento, no hay respuesta porque las posiciones son diferentes. lo vimos en la votación en las naciones unidas, en la asamblea general. lo acabo de ver en el consejo de asuntos exteriores y seguramente lo veremos esta noche en la votación en las naciones unidas. y el consejo europeo, este fin de semana, volverá a discutir el tema. hay posiciones representadas por algunos estados en un sentido y otros en otro. algunos estados sienten una responsabilidad especial con respecto a la seguridad de israel porque forma parte de su propia existencia, como es el caso, sin duda alguna, de alemania, por sus responsabilidades pasadas en el holocausto. otros no sienten esta responsabilidad histórica y perciben la realidad desde una perspectiva diferente. pero tenemos que intentar buscar soluciones. y tenemos que intentar dar sentido a las palabras. y no abusar de los adjetivos, porque a veces la hipérbole mata el matiz y hace imposible el razonamiento y la aproximación. por ejemplo, yo he dicho —y creo que ha sido malinterpretado— algo que quisiera, señor bütikofer, aclararle. creo que la comunidad internacional está de acuerdo en que la solución política al problema pasa por la construcción de dos estados. me lo han dicho en china; están todos los estados de la unión europea de acuerdo; en barcelona, todos los estados árabes musulmanes menos uno. y creo que es una posición común de la comunidad internacional: que la solución política pasa por intentar construir un estado para israel, que ya lo tiene, y un estado para palestina, que no lo tiene. y he dicho también —y creo que es una verdad objetiva— que el primer ministro de israel declara una y otra vez que él está en contra de esta solución. y se presenta a los ciudadanos de israel como la mejor garantía de que esto no va a ocurrir nunca. ¿me equivoco entonces al decir que está en contra de la solución política que la comunidad internacional busca? ¿digo algo incorrecto? ¿o es pura lógica, señor bütikofer? es pura lógica. si decimos que la solución política pasa por construir dos estados y alguien dice que está en contra de hacerlo, está en contra de la solución política, ¿verdad? eso no es ser bias en contra del gobierno de israel. eso es lo que me enseñaron en las clases elementales de lógica. israel tiene derecho a defenderse. claro que sí: se lo reconocemos todos. pero el derecho a la defensa, como todos los derechos, tiene límites. y el problema no está en decir una y otra vez que israel tiene el derecho a defenderse respetando el derecho internacional, sino en preguntarnos si lo respeta. y esta es una pregunta que cada uno de ustedes tendrá que contestar. yo no lo voy a hacer porque sobre eso tampoco hay unanimidad. hay opiniones diferentes. pero creo que hay límites al derecho a la defensa. y creo que no es moralmente justificable —creo yo, que no es moralmente justificable— matar a un culpable y a la vez matar a trescientos inocentes. creo que eso no es justificable. y cuando miramos las cifras y cuando israel reconoce que ha eliminado a 5 000 combatientes de hamás, cuando estamos hablando de 20 000 víctimas civiles, la mitad de ellos niños, la proporción entre el objetivo de defenderse y las víctimas civiles que se causan produce, como mínimo, inquietud. y eso no es ser antisemita. yo creo que aquí no hay antisemitas. nadie está contra los judíos por el hecho de serlo. al contrario. si hay algo que me parece repugnante es estar en contra de un ser humano por su pertenencia a un grupo étnico, religioso o político. pero yo reivindico el derecho a criticar la forma en que el gobierno de israel se comporta, sin ser acusado por eso de antisemita. yo reivindico el derecho a defender la existencia del estado palestino, sin que eso implique poner en cuestión la existencia del estado de israel. yo reivindico la necesidad de eliminar movimientos terroristas como hamás y minimizar las víctimas civiles, porque moralmente tiene que haber una alternativa a la muerte masiva de niños para conseguir un fin. porque si no hay alternativa, entonces no hay proporcionalidad ni hay respeto al derecho humano en su más elemental manifestación. y de eso es lo que estamos discutiendo en este momento crítico de la historia. por lo tanto, dejen de lado los maniqueísmos de estar al lado del uno o del otro e intenten contribuir a buscar una solución que pasa primero, ahora, por evitar más víctimas civiles. y eso pasa, ahora, por una contención en los ataques. y eso pasa, ahora, por detener los combates. y hay otra cosa que también, señor presidente, me ha producido escalofríos. he oído decir que el oops es parte del problema. ¿el oops es parte del problema? el oops es una agencia de la que depende la subsistencia de cinco millones de refugiados y que ha perdido 170 de sus trabajadores, muertos en los bombardeos, la mayoría de ellos con sus familias. y que se ocupa de intentar que sobrevivan 1,9 millones de personas que andan vagando por las calles sin cobijo alguno, suministrándoles la mínima ayuda que la comunidad internacional puede dar. ¿eso es parte del problema? un respeto por los muertos, un respeto para la gente que pone en peligro su vida para intentar ayudar a los demás. un respeto para las naciones unidas. señorías, es el momento de comprometerse políticamente en la búsqueda de una solución. y hay que evitar retroceder en la historia para ver cuál fue el primer huevo o la primera gallina. quién fue el primer causante del primer muerto en una historia que dura ya más de cien años. hay que buscar soluciones para los que todavía viven. y eso exigirá un gran esfuerzo para superar la confrontación y el odio que lo que está pasando siembra. porque erradicar a hamás a base de bombardear y destruir gaza no será una solución. y lo saben los que durante muchos años han intentado erradicar los movimientos terroristas haciéndolo así y nunca lo han conseguido. y, puestos a buscar responsabilidades, están bastante repartidas. están bastante repartidas porque aquí tengo unas declaraciones que dicen lo siguiente: «cualquiera que quiera evitar el establecimiento del estado palestino, cualquiera que quiera evitar que haya nunca un estado palestino, tiene que apoyar a hamás y tiene que transferir dinero a hamás. esto es lo que estamos haciendo. esto es parte de nuestra estrategia. financiar a hamás para que nunca haya un estado palestino». ¿saben ustedes quién dijo eso? el señor netanyahu. en marzo de 2019, en la kneset.
this debate is now closed. written statements (rule 171)
it's in writing. the israeli-palestinian conflict is very emotional for us, but i strongly oppose deciding which nation has the right to exist and which does not. we should focus on humanitarian support and human life. the universal declaration of human rights states that 'everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person'. unfortunately, this law is systematically violated before our eyes. the gaza health ministry says at least 17,487 palestinians have been killed, while according to israeli data, 1,200 people have been killed in hamas' attack on israel. how many more lives will be lost in this conflict, whose victims are primarily innocent civilians? i call for an immediate ceasefire and the release of the hostages. our moral duty is to stand in solidarity with the victims and condemn violence.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, the intentional destruction of nature is one of russia’s weapons of war against ukraine. russia is responsible for severe, long-term and often irreversible damage to ukraine’s natural environment. it is a war crime. in the midst of this brutal war, ukraine has shown outstanding leadership by responding to russia’s blatant violations of international law with a commitment to strengthen accountability for serious environmental crimes. the eu and its member states must support ukraine in this work. ecocide is already recognised under ukrainian law. and now it is time to find a way to incorporated ecocide as a core crime within the rome statute of the international criminal court. a better recognition of environmental crimes in armed conflicts is urgently needed. not only for the benefit of ukraine, but for all future conflicts. now, restoring ukraine’s natural environment from the damage caused by this war will require significant financial support and expertise, but also strong environmental legislation and processes. a rapid opening of eu accession talks, and the adoption of the eu acquis on environment, would help maintain the pace of the ongoing reforms. building back better will be key for a sustainable recovery of ukraine. both public and private financing for ukraine must be well aligned with the country’s social and environmental goals. responsible business conduct should also be well integrated in the recovery efforts. and finally, ukraine and its nature will recover from this terrible war. a prosperous, green ukraine on a european path will be an end to vladimir putin’s imperialist fantasies.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, at the end of the previous legislature a group of meps, including myself, participated in the conference held in avdiivka, ukraine, together with members of the verkhovna rada, assessing damages made by the indirect aggression of russia in eastern ukraine as well as by the annexation of crimea. at that time, we were taken aback by the scale of damages. nowadays we have much, much more. we have the blowing up of kakhovka dam, the shelling of nuclear power plants, threats against them in zaporizhzhia, chernobyl and in other places. of course, russia should be held responsible for this, put to justice. but in order to do this, we have to help ukraine defeat russia as soon as possible.
president, ecocide literally means killing our house. the war in ukraine has caused horribly many deaths and enormous human suffering. and it's also killing the house, the ecosystems of ukraine. the destruction of the kachovka dam, one of europe's largest water reservoirs, has led to mass fish deaths, decaying trees, oil and poison leaks, and the destruction of biodiversity. the fact that ukraine wants to launch an ecocide case against russia is therefore very understandable. because the immense damage to the environment is irreversible. we must support ukraine in gathering evidence and we must always continue to be committed to protecting people, animals and their vulnerable habitat. but above all, we must prevent serious, long-lasting and irreversible environmental damage and criminalize ecocide.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. democracy never sleeps, and that is the message from the european parliament today, where we are discussing an important subject in the context of an even more important one late in the evening. the even more important issue is that we must not lose sight of the fact that since february 2022, putin-russia is carrying out a military assault, combined with hybrid warfare, against us all against our civilization, not only against ukraine and ukrainians, but against us all. the sub-theme is that this also means that the soil is contaminated, that the landscape is contaminated by huge amounts of russian metal waste on ukrainian soil. this means not only pollution, but the long-standing non-use of the land for agricultural purposes. it is a very serious danger to humans and animals. it's about mines, but it's also about metal trash. and it's a very large amount. we must deal with this together with ukraine in partnership.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, i want to see you. my colleagues and colleagues! the russian aggression against ukraine has caused serious environmental damage, including air, water and soil pollution and biodiversity loss. ukraine, with international support, is investigating the legal possibilities of bringing russia to justice for environmental crimes. but it's a complicated legal matter. the european parliament recognised the link between war and environmental damage, supporting the creation of an international register for future reparations. this situation underlines the urgent need to strengthen the international legal framework for protecting the environment during conflicts and to more effectively address the consequences for aggressors. war can have long-lasting environmental effects that extend far beyond the duration of the conflict. it will take many years for ecosystems to recover, and some of the damage may be irreversible. it is therefore understandable that the offender must be fully involved in the financing of the damage.
the honourable president, the commissioner! the russian aggression against ukraine is proof that the european union was living the illusions of a safe world. we were engaged in ideology, and there was no time to prepare for the war that would come to us. armed conflicts have environmental effects, but is that really the worst part of them? i saw myself the russians devastating ukraine to make living conditions unbearable and the cost of reconstruction prevent a rapid integration of kiev with the west. the worst thing we can do is play our defense against the inevitable conflict, continue to live in a world of peace-time illusions and look at everything from the perspective of climate policy. that's right. military equipment, tanks, aircraft or artillery are to be reliable and effective on the battlefield, not low emission. if we don't start thinking in those terms, we've lost this war before it even started.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, i want to see you. we've all seen pictures of russian atrocities in ukraine: bucha, irpin, kachovka. the putin regime doesn't value people or the environment. they're trying to replace the rule of law with the law of force. the biggest danger is that other countries are watching closely where the limit of impunity is. ukrainians today are paying the price with their lives by standing up against russia in defence of european values and principles. one is our commitment to protecting the environment so that our planet can be habitable for our children and grandchildren. we must hold russia responsible for the radiation surge in the chernobyl area, for the destruction of the kachovka dam, for the mining of thousands of hectares of land and for many other war crimes. we need to set a precedent for the aggressor's payment of damages and reconstruction of the destroyed areas so that he can know the full cost of the war he has caused. moreover, it is in our interest to help rebuild ukraine as quickly as possible, because for us ukraine is not a grey area, but a like-minded country, which we want to see as a strong economic partner in our european family.
mr. president, what is this? russia is waging a total, totalitarian war with ukraine and europe, murdering people, destroying the economy, trying to leave the land burned. it's mining, mining, destroying waterways, destroying industrial facilities. this is all cruel. the european union is showing concern, but it must have a plan. how to, first, win the war, second, find the money, third, mine ukraine, and then lead to a country where there will be good, clean, drinking water. and it will indicate the funds and the opportunities to save the environment. without concrete, without plans, we'll only have appeals. we're not gonna win this war.
in writing. – before we get to environmental damages this war of aggression has brought about, we need to remind ourselves what exactly led to this war in the first place. i am referring to the short sightedness of the eu led by germany. for years on end, the eu’s liberal left-wing elites have appeased putin to pursue lucrative energy deals with russia. on the one hand, numerous member states have become addicted to russia’s dirty hydrocarbons. on the other, the ever-creeping ecologist legislation has cut down europe’s energy independence and competitiveness. berlin’s plans to get rich on russian energy, as the eu’s main energy hub, have backfired. poland and other countries of the eu’s and nato’s eastern flank have been sounding the alarm since even before putin decided to invade georgia in 2008. instead of promoting fracking imports of energy from places like the us and nuclear energy, europe kept on feeding russia’s growing war machine. virtue signalling focused on limiting the eu’s carbon footprint might have made some among the eu’s elites feel better but it did nothing for the environment. on the contrary, those failed policies made the aggression against ukraine possible and led to the destruction of the kahovka dam.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, hr/vp, colleagues, the bottom line of our relationship with the united states can be captured in one sentence: ‘we should be partners in leadership and responsibility’, as you have quoted from the text. dc has often asked us to shoulder more responsibility, and that’s justified. but they do not always listen when we ask for more partnership in leadership. however, the united states is not anymore the shining city on the hill that we can just always follow. still, there’s a necessity to build on the partnership, to strengthen the partnership. but we almost also must address issues where we are not seeing eye to eye. and with regard to multilateralism, that pertains in particular to the trade realm, where the us often talk about rules-based order, but whenever it comes to wto, they forget it. we need to be cooperating also with other like-minded partners in order to impress on our us partners that we want to shape the future. and the last point is the most urgent one: that is ukraine. what the us congress is deliberating at the moment can be captured with the english saying ‘penny wise, pound foolish’: to not spend the money on supporting ukraine would be suicidal in the strategic long term.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i am not going to say anything. your highness! - what? - my colleagues and colleagues! the important words that came out just now were that we should be concerned about the strong united states, the strong european union, because then there will be a strong alliance and partnership. i want to thank you for this report and for this discussion. i'm trying not to hear voices that are unfortunately ringing in the wake of an attempt to interfere in the united states election. unfortunately, we often experience this kind of interference by the european parliament or the european commission in elections in different countries. i'm glad that from different countries, including the german and french voices, we're getting here because we've heard too many bad phrases this year, whether it's from the german side, which wants to limit its contribution to nato, or the french president, who is distancing himself from the united states or nato. it's a warning to us because it's more important to all the things that unite us than the things that divide us. at the same time, i'm not hiding that we're worried about poland, because the foreign minister will be a man who's been on the lips of all russia and on all the tapes on russian television. when nord stream 2 was destroyed, he tweeted that he was thanking the united states. at the same time, we know him in poland from the vulgar, cafeteria discussions about how we're working too hard with the united states. i hope that the european parliament, the european commission, will be able to watch with us over radosław sikorsky, who until recently was a mep.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, if there is one area where the european union's strategic autonomy remains to be demonstrated, it is the transatlantic relationship, because europeans and americans are far from always having the same interests, and the fall of trump has not settled any of our differences. take the us law on reducing inflation or the semiconductor regulation: you have americans who give hundreds of billions to companies to leave europe and move to their territory. they're still pursuing their extraterritorial sanctions. what about us? well, nothing at all. not much, anyway. sometimes we even ask for it. yes, we are asking for it again, because i find it incredible that we would negotiate behind the scenes, and it could also be in breach of the treaties, a trade agreement which we already know will be unequal in the end. i am referring to the eu-us trade and technology council, which was proposed by von der leyen and vestager and which actually plans to give our data and digital businesses to the united states. and i could also speak about standards, citing the european institute of standardization, which is run by an intel employee when crucial matters are discussed. we must then face reality and above all anticipate. anticipating, possibly, a return of trump. what are we gonna do? i'm asking you the question.
mr. president, i really liked mr. bütikofer's comment that america is not what it used to be. and he's very right. however, it remains our important trading partner and strategic partner, with whom we share many common objectives. but of course, we have our differences and sometimes we compete. more or less. however, this cooperation should not be underestimated and we need more exchanges of views, and i therefore support the proposals in this report, which concern, for example, the establishment of a transatlantic council or, for example, proposals for closer cooperation between the parliaments of the united states and the european union. but we must not settle for anything. i therefore think that we should always insist on a responsible and appropriate level of participation by the united states of america. mutual respect between partners is an important condition for our cooperation. and whether we like it or not, this cooperation is definitely a must. our common task is to continue to promote mutual trade. although the united states is not our biggest partner, it is a major trading partner for the european union. and also to comply with the terms of this international trade that is going on between us. we can do more together not only in this area but also in areas such as democracy, human rights, but also in joint research, whether classical or space exploration.
mr president, dear colleagues, transatlantic cooperation has been tried and tested over time, but our bond has proven itself time and again, most recently in the response to the russian war of aggression against ukraine. here we have shown remarkable unity, not least by coordinating our military support within the ukraine defence contact group. the united states of america is and will be our most important partner and ally as the european union. people are at the bedrock of this relationship. bilateral trade and investment supports millions of jobs in europe and the united states, respectively, and we are each other’s strongest geo-economic base. but indeed, we need to and can do more in order to maximise the added value of transatlantic relations by exploiting the opportunities for cooperation presented by the eu-us security and defence dialogue. i am convinced that on both sides of the atlantic there is genuine interest to cement the foundations of a relationship so that we can meet the challenges of the years and decades to come. let me thank the rapporteur and the shadows for presenting this very good report.
mr. speaker, experience has shown that it is much easier to establish partnerships with the united states and western countries with whom, in addition to economic interests, we share some fundamental values such as freedom and democracy. you need to develop relationships with others. but the situation where the european union develops relations with russia and then demands that the united states protect itself from that same russia clearly shows some miscalculation in the choice of strategic partners. so i welcome this report and i hope that the relationship between the european union and the united states will continue next year, when donald trump is certain to become president of the united states again, and i hope that there will not be mass hysteria in the european parliament like it was in 2016 when trump was elected or in 2020 when the entire european political mainstream, including the shot dead, sided with joe biden. so the presidents of the european union should not interfere with the democratic decisions of the american people, but rather develop a permanent partnership.
mr president, i want to speak to you. the united states is undoubtedly a central partner of the european union, a partner with whom we have been connected for decades, even centuries. but the world beyond this partnership is changing rapidly. and we all know that the challenges facing the world community are colossal. i therefore call on the commission to rethink transatlantic relations. not in the face of the new, upcoming heavyweights of the international scene. not by using our currency as a weapon and thus even by the branch on which we sit. let us take the american economist nouriel roubini seriously. so let's use our solid relationships to take new paths. one example is the joint trade and technology council. let us create a permanent parliamentary body with this council and show what parliamentary control of international trade relations can be like. a multipolar world deserves transatlantic partners who strengthen multilateral forums that work credibly and seriously to solve global problems.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur for his full report and also the alternative rapporteur, mrs zovco, for her special work. there are many challenges that the european union must try to tackle in coordination with the united states. i think about ukraine, the middle east, the relations with china, the sahel, but also about climate change, terrorism, the threat of new pandemics or illicit trafficking in the atlantic basin. i therefore support the idea of creating a transatlantic political council which this parliament has supported for the last 15 years. i usually support summits with the united states, but i am afraid that the results of the latter have been poor in trade matters. we need an agreement on essential minerals as soon as possible and also to solve the outstanding steel and aluminium problem. if we had concluded the atci, we wouldn't be in this situation right now. i have tabled an amendment to this effect, number one. i hope the house will support you. we don't know what will happen in the presidential election in november, but we should take advantage of the last year of the biden administration to strengthen as much as possible the strategic partnership with the united states, our most important ally and indispensable partner.
mr. president, what is this? the report we have received accurately reflects all the positive points about the strategic autonomy of the european union, as well as the need to invest in strategic capabilities and european defence cooperation as a nato component. in the face of threats to security and stability in europe, a stronger eu-us partnership is more necessary than ever, as is strengthening transatlantic ties and increasing shared influence on the world stage. however, we cannot fail to see the growing economic protectionism on the part of the us, the economic and technological gap between europe and the united states, which tends to widen, or europe's growing dependency on defence. i believe that the weaknesses of the union in this regard can be eliminated through deeper european integration, which must be consistently addressed.
madam president! the honourable commissioner! your honor! i would like to draw attention to two issues that have been raised here during the speeches of some of you. the first concerns the issues of treaty amendments and the limitation of the veto power of sovereign states, member states. this is a very bad idea. you know about that. i think the vote in the previous council made it clear that there was no majority to make such changes. it is simply a restriction on the sovereignty of the member states. it is clear that there is a need to seek agreement, compromise and solutions in a consensus-based spirit, seeking solutions that are acceptable and take into account the laws and possibilities of the individual member states. without a doubt, the most important issue for all of us right now is supporting ukraine. this is very important, and there's no doubt in this room that we should continue to do this. but another issue that has been very exciting at the last european council is, of course, finance. it's finance, and we have to make it clear that before we go through the review, before we start to make new changes and look for new solutions, it's worth looking at the spending and the policies that are currently being implemented in the european union, which instead of stimulating economic development and providing good finance for europeans, are limiting that development. among other things, it's a reckless climate policy. if we are talking about a necessary transformation, yes, let us do it, but let us do it pragmatically, without burdening europeans again. the only thing to consider is whether the programmes that are currently being implemented are concerned with the energy security of europe, the european union, whether they are strengthening our competitiveness and, above all, whether they are serving europeans.
madam president, just very briefly, i couldn’t help noticing that the president of the european commission has left. the president of the european commission is a member of the european council. we’re having a debate about the european council here. i think it would have been appropriate for the president of the commission to remain here for the entire debate. and i’ve noticed this is not the first time. i hope that the presidency can convey the message.
the commission, as you know, is of course represented by the executive vice-president šefčovič but we will in any case refer to your appeal to the regulation.
the commissioner is the president. this will be a very important meeting of the european council for poland. for the first time in eight years, my country will be represented by a respected politician in europe, former president of the european council donald tusk, who will take over as president of the council of ministers today. the time will come for breaking the law and blocking solutions that are important to the union. finally, we can look forward to a future where poland will be strong in a strong, united europe. there are many important issues on the agenda of the council, including the enlargement of the union. they welcome ukraine's progress in adapting the law to union legislation. the president said that 90 percent of the reforms had already been implemented by ukraine, but that progress in ukraine could easily be thwarted by the veto. that's another argument to eliminate this possibility from our legal system. the sooner the better.
it's in writing. the european council (ec) will have its next meeting to focus on many current issues. i'd like to get to a few. i expect the re to maintain its multi-dimensional commitment to ukraine. in particular, it should seek to provide a stable financial basis for eu military support for that country, for example by expressing strong support for the creation, under the european peace instrument, of a separate financial envelope for ukraine (ukraine assistance fund). secondly, the european parliament should decide in december to open accession negotiations with ukraine and moldova. this is necessary to consolidate the reform process, maintain the credibility of the eu and strengthen european security. the situation in the middle east requires special attention. poland supports any diplomatic initiatives aimed at restoring peace in the region. the eu must continue to press israel to protect the civilian population of the zone in accordance with international standards. we stress that international law and humanitarian law must be respected at all times. migration: effective management of migration flows will be essential for eu stability and security in the years ahead. we stress that the migration and asylum pact in its current form does not provide an answer to current problems. we should not depart from the concept of flexible solidarity, where it is the member states and their citizens who decide how to implement it.
madam president, the rule of law and democracies are pillars and this is the very foundation of our common european union. why am i talking about this? because no one party can be above the law, and no one politician can be above the law. building majority by political corruption is a crime. the need of majority in parliament cannot justify the crimes and criminal cases and you cannot ignore the millions of people on the streets. this is the same situation and as we had in poland. and thank you, spanish socialists, for the very fast reaction when we had demolished rule of law in poland. you remember the lex tusk, for instance. this was the case where immediate reaction was very important, crucial. the spanish society is very strong and democracy will win, so you have still a chance to do the step back, and not make a mistake as law and justice did in poland. you still have a chance. as a european, you have to do it.
the reporter. the president! your honor! i hear many speeches in this chamber about building a common market. today is a chance to see if these words have real meaning. the geoblocking regulation is the essence of removing unfair barriers for consumers and entrepreneurs in the common market. i want to thank the imco co-rapporters for their constructive work. examples of situations where we need to improve are barriers to online registration and payment methods, price discrimination based on the nationality and residence of the consumer. we also want to make it easier for consumers to pick up or organize their shipments when they shop online from another country. persons seeking a product or service within the union must have full access to and choice of the most attractive, cost-effective and quality offer. i cannot ignore the audio-visual content of the report. let's not be fooled by the apples. the report shall support a step-by-step, data-driven approach allowing for an in-depth assessment by experts from the creative sector. we are looking for concrete actions taking into account stakeholder positions that do not prejudice existing business models and project financing and are without prejudice to cultural diversity. is that a revolutionary approach? of course, it is also possible to choose passivity and ignore the evolving needs of consumers and reject the technological progress made in recent years. but will it be good for everyone? today we present the thoughtful solutions developed by the internal market committee. the european commission is required to prepare a regulatory review in 2025. and this opportunity should be used to see how legal equal access to audiovisual content can be improved for the inhabitants of all member states. i therefore call on you to vote in favour of the report and reject all amendments.
mr. president, what is this? your honor! much has been said about a virtually broken generation, broken or a coronavirus pandemic. there's been a lot of talk about mental illness, depression. and this is the problem of housing shortages. this is a problem whether we are talking about the old european union or the countries that joined the community later. today, real estate prices or housing prices, whether in paris, rome, dublin or warsaw, prague, bratislava, are virtually unattainable for the younger generation. who's the beneficiary of this? banks and financial investments that create a speculative bubble for real estate prices. and the image that we had in our eyes when we sometimes watched these patho-developers in hong kong, in asian countries, is happening today, for example, in warsaw. the price per meter of a two-foot-tall apartment with beds that are practically attached to the wall is several thousand dollars. who's the beneficiary of this? financial institutions and banks. either we fight for the younger generation or this generation is lost. the government of law and justice, condemned for such a crime, has allocated 2% of the state budget tax to young people. we raised the age to 26 years so that young people would not pay taxes. such action must be taken.
mr president, madam commissioner, it is not the few measures taken as a result of this scandal that really deserve debate. we must speak instead of the facts that have been revealed and their major political consequences. the international influence of the european parliament is largely due to the democratic influence it exerts as the resonance box for all those who fight dictatorships around the world. the scandal is beginning to gain credibility, and what our parliament needs is genuine self-criticism within the political groups and committees concerned. we must also talk about corrupt people. is there nothing to say about morocco? is there nothing to say about its illegal colonization of western sahara, which is the source of this resounding scandal? shouldn't we have learned from the judgments of the court of justice of the european union in this case, which involves the complacency of several high-ranking commission officials? yesterday we awarded the sakharov prize to women who fight in iran. at the same time, the press was echoed with shameless manoeuvres surrounding the sakharov prize. it is not enough to debate legislation or bureaucratic regulations. it will require a political debate, where the officials and those who appointed them to their posts will be held accountable.
mr. president, what is this? your honor! we see a shift in responsibility from group to group, and we're dealing with one of the most powerful cases that has not only shocked the european union but also the world. i want to say here one very important reflection. after all, the people who were sitting here, and they are sitting here, were part of a great inclination towards my country, towards my country, towards poland, judging us for a lack of rule of law. and yet, it's in my country that there are models of anti-corruption. there's an anti-corruption law. you can't beat up the mps. there is a ban on extra delivery to members. there's the central anti-corruption bureau. there are statements of assets. there's a whole mechanism that shows that things like corruption will be cut short. and there are no, and there will be no holy cows in that regard. and all you have to do is take it and draw on these patterns. you don't have to invent a powder to make the system tight.
co-worker ilcic is right. this report is not about parental rights and adoption rights, this report is only about enforcing lgbt ideology, about same-sex marriage, about rainbow families, about pink ponies, pink ones, and all the other things that are in your heads, colleagues. and it's proven by the text of the report and your conduct here in the hall. two-thirds of those who defend the report are talking about same-sex couples and families in the rainbow and i don't know what other things, like there are no other real problems in this union and these countries, but that's of course your problem. but i'm showing you one piece of evidence for what i'm saying right now. read the text of the report you have proposed. the word mother is mentioned only three times in it, three times in a legislative proposal. 16 times you have the definition of the person who gave birth to the child. i have a secret for you, colleagues, the person who gave birth to the child is always a woman. only women give birth, and women who give birth are mothers. that's the mother. there are no faces that gave birth to the child. you can decide in your head that something else is giving birth, but mothers give birth, and that's biological, objective reality. everything else is in the realm of your imagination.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, a child has the right to know his parents and be cared for by them. universal declaration of the rights of the child. the protection of children is already covered by family law, the competence of each member state, in institutions such as the natural family or through adoption with the motherland. another way of building the affiliation involves a breakdown of a sacred bond through a commodification of relationships and a sozification of people who attack dignity. the mother or child ceases to be understood as legal subjects and becomes objects of transaction. this creates space for human trafficking networks, disprotecting the most vulnerable. this regulation can only generate uncertainty with legal and existential dilemmas that harm the defendant, the child. they also harm the whole society because they dilute the concept of family as a reality necessary for each of us.
mr. president, what is this? your honor! no directives, no regulations, no amended treaties, no oxford textbooks will change the fact that the mother is a woman and the father is a man. baby, i remind you, this is not merchandise. a child is not a fence that can be moved by sight. that's why we're talking about sanctioning surrogacy. surrogacy is the usual trade in small children. it's a violation of a child's right to basic knowledge of his or her origin. all the arguments put forward by the reporter, by mr. reinders and others are a smokescreen for the aggressive introduction of new human engineering. the national order handles the situations you've been quoting. there's a red line for such regulations because it's a violation of family law. this is a circumvention of the constitution. and we will oppose the wrong laws that will harm children. please do not abuse or manipulate the term of the child's rights.
member of the commission. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report and for his report. i would like to thank him for his report. the first is the content of the proposal itself. this is a very important content, you have pointed out, but it is also well-defined. in our proposal we simply remind that if parenting is established in a member state of the european union, it must be recognised in the other member states. i am right: if it is established in a member state. this is already the case, as confirmed by the court of justice, for rights derived from european law, for example when travelling or residing in one or the other member states. this is the principle of free movement which has been recalled and which all states must of course recognize. today we are proposing to extend this recognition of rights derived from national rights to children who are there, who normally have access to the same rights as all other children in the european union, and i believe it is important that parliament supports this approach. but i was also very surprised by the number of interventions that spoke of a breach of national competences. i would just like to remind you that the proposal we are making is also being discussed in the council, which must decide unanimously. we are not imposing anything on any member state, we are simply asking them to ensure that children in the european union have the same rights when it comes to applying the rights derived from national legislation as they have had the opportunity to obtain in the past, i.e. the rights derived from european law. it's not more or less. this is very important, but it is very limited, and it does not in any way affect national sovereignty, since, i repeat, the discussion in the council will end in a unanimous decision.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 14 december 2023. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 171.
in writing. every child has the right to adequate care, especially from his or her own parents. this is also the case with the new york convention on the rights of the child, which has been ratified by the member states of the union and incorporated into their national legal systems, that is, as part of the family law regulation and competence of nations. however, the introduction of the european decomposition certificate is openly contrary to the interests of children and the sovereignty of the member states. it seeks to establish a legal basis for ideologies in all eu member states, which result not only in violations of the member states' legal systems, in many cases of their constitutions, but also in the risk posed to mothers and children. the mother or child is no longer understood as a person with rights but as the subject of a transaction. it creates space for human trafficking networks and leaves the most vulnerable vulnerable vulnerable. it's never been more important than now, amid the uncertainty of the inflation and the life-support crisis, to protect children and families and the traditional family model. protect our sovereignty, protect our families.
in writing. european freedom of movement and free movement of persons must not depend on the family status or sexual orientation of parents. everything else is in direct contradiction with the eu's fundamental values, undermines the fundamental rights of parents and children, and is to be condemned as discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation! recognition of the rainbow family's parentage is long overdue. today's european parliament resolution is a milestone, and we greens will consistently expand and defend the lgbtqia+ freedom zone.
the next item on the agenda is the discussion on the council and commission statements on the planned dissolution of central anti-corruption structures in slovakia and the impact on the rule of law (2023/3021(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, let me begin by stressing that the rule of law is a fundamental element of our political action, just as our union is not only a single market but a community of values. our union can only prosper if all of us, states and institutions, remain united in protecting and strengthening these values. to this end, the council fully supports respect for and protection of the union's common values. i should like to begin by recalling the work done by the council in the field of the rule of law, which has been a priority throughout the entire six months of the spanish presidency of the council. since july we have had a rule of law item on the agenda at all meetings of the general affairs council and we have had two council sessions of dialogue on the rule of law based on the commission's report on the rule of law: in september a horizontal debate, which allowed ministers to review the main trends in the union, and in october a country-specific debate focused on the situation in denmark, germany, estonia, ireland and greece. at the same time, we reaffirmed the council's determination to move forward with the procedures referred to in article 7 for hungary and poland, and both were discussed at the council meeting in november. in addition, we have made efforts to assess the council's dialogue four years after the last revision in 2019, and yesterday the president of the council published the presidency's conclusions on the rule of law council dialogue with the broad support of 25 delegations. it is a very positive experience and i am convinced that all the elements set out in the text will help to prevent the emerging and existing challenges to the rule of law. this dialogue is an extremely useful prevention tool, enabling the council to periodically review the situation on the ground in each member state and in relation to the fundamental pillars of the rule of law. in particular, the justice system, the framework for fighting corruption and freedom of the press from institutional power. this allows us to debate between member states and the commission on relevant issues and to address emerging challenges before they become real problems. in this context, i would like to stress once again the fundamental role played by the commission. we welcome your regular information on the situation in this dialogue, as well as your annual report on the rule of law and the ongoing monitoring and necessary interventions as guarantor of the treaties. the council supports the development of more effective tools at national level of the international anti-corruption union and reiterates its call on the member states to continuously update and improve their national anti-corruption strategies and frameworks. as i have said, the commission is continuously monitoring the situation on the ground in each member state, including slovakia. however, this house will understand that, as president-in-office of the council, it is not my task to comment on the internal situation of a member state. but, as is the case with the other member states, and in the context of the existing dialogue instruments which i have mentioned and detailed to them, i understand that slovakia is in direct contact and in dialogue with the commission on proposals for certain legislative changes relating to the rule of law.
member of the commission. mr president, mr secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen, as i have repeatedly pointed out, particularly in this house, we must now more than ever protect democracy and the rule of law in the european union as a whole. the commission has stepped up its efforts in this regard, and the annual report on the rule of law plays, as you know, a central role in this area. in july, the commission published the fourth edition of the report, which includes an assessment of the specific recommendations addressed to all member states in the 2022 report. i would like to present the commission's recommendations on the rule of law in slovakia and also to discuss some recent developments. some of these developments are of concern. the commission therefore sent a letter to the slovak authorities on 5 december asking them not to proceed with the reforms envisaged. i'll be back in a second. in relation to the slovak justice system, the 2023 rule of law report notes that the new separate system of administrative courts is functioning well. however, the report also highlights that the lack of safeguards for the dismissal of members of the judicial council continues to raise issues, as it may affect their independence. the report also notes the lack of safeguards for the crime of abuse of law, which allows prosecutions of judges for an arbitrary decision that harms or benefits another person. we continue to call on slovakia to take the necessary actions for the implementation of the recommendations made in the rule of law report. as regards the anti-corruption framework, the rule of law report notes that serious concerns remain about the discretionary power of the prosecutor general to override decisions of lower ranking prosecutors or of police investigators to prosecute high-level corruption cases. in this regard, the commission has recommended to slovakia that measures be taken to ensure a robust track record of high-level corruption cases. we also recommended to introduce proposals to regulate lobbying and to strengthen legislation on conflicts of interest and asset declarations. with regard to media freedom and pluralism, the report acknowledges progress in enhancing the independent governance as well as editorial independence of public service media. on the other hand, it refers to concerns in relation to the fragile situation related to the funding of radio and television of slovakia. the report also notes some progress in relation to the safety of journalists, with bills tabled before parliament. however, the commission knows that following the adoption of the 2023 report, there has been no legislative progress on this. the commission encourages the slovak authorities to move forward on addressing these issues in line with the recommendations, which would lead to significant improvement in this crucial area. when it comes to checks and balances, the report reiterates the commission's concerns about the extensive use of fast-track legislative procedures. in the same vein, the report notes the unsystematic involvement of stakeholders in the lawmaking process and contents of recommendations to slovakia in this regard. the recent developments in slovakia, which have triggered today's debate, can only reinforce the importance of implementing the recommendations of the rule of law report. these developments are a source of concern. the commission has noted with particular concern that despite all the recommendations regarding the need for safeguards relating to the dismissal of the members of the judicial council, three members of this council have been dismissed by the new government before the end of their term of office. moreover, last week the slovak government approved a proposal for amendments to the criminal code, which would, among others, dissolve the special prosecutor's office, a specialized body to investigate and prosecute corruption. this would also lower penalties for criminal offences related to corruption, raising further concerns. this reform will be dealt with by the national legislature in a fast-track procedure, and is planned to come into effect already on 15 january 2024. the commission is in contact with the slovak authorities on draft laws, both at technical and political level. on 27 november i met with prime minister fico, deputy prime minister kaliňák and minister of justice susko. the slovak government informed the commission of the planned reforms and sent us draft texts. the final assessment of the commission will only come at the end of the legislative process. i should like to stress that the proposed amendments are wide ranging and concern numerous areas of eu law, which will require further in-depth analysis. our analysis concerns how the laws, once adopted, may affect the eppo regulation, the pif directive, relating to the protection of the union's financial interests, as well as the eu anti-corruption framework, all areas related to the eu acquis on procedural rights for suspects and accused persons and on victims' rights. it is important that any criminal reform contains sufficient and adequate safeguards to ensure the continuation and effectiveness of new and ongoing criminal cases, especially in relation to high-level corruption, as well as to guarantee the independence of the judiciary and the autonomy of the prosecution. finally, we are concerned that despite the wide-ranging nature of the reforms, the draft seems to have been prepared without thorough consultation of stakeholders and submitted to parliament in an accelerated legislative procedure. this is difficult to reconcile with all rule of law recommendations. together with commissioner johansson, i sent a letter to our slovak counterparts on 5 december, flagging these areas of concern and asking the slovak authorities not to advance on the proposed amendments yet, and especially not to advance with the fast-track legislative procedure, without proper and thorough consultation with stakeholders, at national and european level, including the venice commission. it seems, however, that the slovak authorities have decided to move forward and seek a fast-track adoption, aiming to have the new law in force already, i said, on 15 january. moreover, also last week, the government approved a proposal to amend the act on the protection of whistleblowers, which has been tabled before parliament. in a fast-track legislative procedure, the amendment also aims to change the regime of protection of police officers by limiting their protection under this act, with retroactive effect. on 8 december we received a reply to our letter and we know the explanations given by the slovak authorities, which in their view justified the use of the fast-track legislative procedures. the commission will take these explanations into account in its assessment. we will analyse the final text and assess their compatibility with the relevant eu law. i would like to assure you that the commission will not hesitate to take any action that may be necessary to ensure compliance with eu law, including sound financial management of the eu budget and the protection of the union's financial interests. at the same time, the commission stands ready to support the slovak authorities through further technical and political discussions to accompany the ongoing legislative process. you have seen that there were already other reactions i am thinking about reactions coming from the european public prosecutor's office and from the president of slovakia but, of course, i am very pleased to listen now to your comments and comments during your interventions, because, again, we want to be sure that it is possible to protect the independence of the judiciary, the rule of law in general, and certainly the financial interests of the european union.
colleagues, i will interrupt the meeting for one minute and then we will continue. (the sitting was briefly suspended)
we are now continuing our discussion on the council and commission statements (2023/3021 (rsp)).
for the epp group. mr president, justice and equality before the law are at stake in slovakia today. prime minister fico began his term of office by attacking independent media, as well as independent institutions and anti-corruption bodies. the government proposes to abolish the office of the special prosecutor, which is a key institution in the fight against corruption and in protecting european financial interests. the government is proposing to substantially reduce penalties for corruption, and government officials are intimidating investigators. who would the special prosecutor's office be concerned with? i'll name just a few of the defendants: former police chief tibor gaspar, former ministers of zieg and kazimir, martin kvitnik, an oligarch accused of bribing european resources, marian kochner, former neighbor of prime minister fico accused of ordering the murder of jan kuciak, and many others. clearly, this effort to abolish is aimed at helping their people. the term has become popular in slovakia and is a symbol of inequality before the law. let me remind you that we have acted in the european parliament after the murder of jan kuciak and martina kušnier and also in the case of suspicions of corruption with european agricultural resources. in both cases, the special prosecutor's office played a key role. that's why we won't be silent if we lose an important ally in the anti-corruption fight, which is the special prosecutor's office. i would like to thank from this place all the citizens of slovakia who spoke out on the subject yesterday in protests in many cities of my homeland. none of us wants slovakia to go the hungarian way. we are clearly not talking about the abolition of a key anti-corruption institution, not of their people's system, and not of prime minister fico himself. yes, he's for maintaining the special prosecutor's office, yes, he's for supporting real brave people, and yes, he's for justice and equality before the law. the parents of john the baptist murdered wrote me, "please do whatever you can". my yes belongs not only to the brave kuciakov, but also to all slovak citizens. you're not alone in this. thank you to everyone who cares about slovakia.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner reynders, you know and the members of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs know that one of the great achievements of this parliament is precisely the consolidation of the framework of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights, which regularly examines the 27 member states in terms of their institutional or legislative developments and which show the slightest concern for the european standard of democracy and the rule of law and judicial independence. no member state is therefore exempt from this examination, and this limits the victimist rhetoric of those referred to in article 7 to say that they were being referred to by a double standard, supposedly, of the european union. now the subject of concern is slovakia, because it is taking a step in the wrong direction. in a country where there is a high rate of concern and perception of corruption, in addition to other problems such as discrimination against minorities in the case of slovakia, the roma minority, certainly worrying, it turns out that the anti-corruption prosecutor's office is now being closed. when we see the light at the end of the tunnel in poland, which even announces that it will sign up for membership of the european public prosecutor's office, slovakia is going in exactly the opposite direction: closing the anti-corruption prosecutor's office. the message is clear. the european parliament therefore makes it clear that the anti-corruption strategy is part of the framework of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights of the european union and that what we are trying to do is to put all the pressure on slovakia to renew its commitment to european values and not the other way around.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, commissioner, minister, the first activities of the fico government are an alarming echo of the recent past – high-level corruption investigations suspended, the investigators removed and their whistle-blower status lifted, judicial reforms to be rolled back and the office of the special prosecutor to be closed and, maybe the worst of all, attacks on journalists and their access to government press conferences barred. fico is taking his cues from orbán, but the eu has also learned from orbán. we have a solid rule of law toolkit, so thank you, viktor. however, today’s decision of the commission to pay a bribe – yes, a bribe – to orbán is entirely the wrong signal. my thoughts go back to the dark days of february 2018. ján kuciak and martina kušnírová shall not be forgotten, and the slovak people at the time took to the streets and demanded justice, and an end to corruption. the election results of this year in no way indicate that the people want to go back to those days. i have immense confidence in the power of the slovak people and their firm desire to be in the heart of europe, and we stand with them.
on behalf of the id group. for years, the european commission has persecuted poland, guilty of ideological disagreements, in total disregard for the independence of the states. today, with poland changing government, you suddenly have nothing to blame. all alleged serious violations of european values have disappeared overnight. so, in the absence of poland, the european union found a new scare to attack: slovakia. slovakia, where robert fico, who was elected president by the slovak people, suddenly sees the accusations of breach of the rule of law pouring in. only two months after he was elected. frankly, between us, you've wasted no time. democracy is certainly of no value to the european union. the pretext this time is the possible dissolution of anti-corruption organisations, which would be a threat to the rule of law. it takes a lot of courage and i am speaking to mr štefanec of the epp, and i must admit it to the european parliament, which was corrupt to the core during the qatargate, to teach lessons about corruption and to dare to make such accusations, and i am not even talking about the potential scandal of the pfizergate. however, a government has the absolute right to create, transform and abolish judicial institutions. but it's always a rebellious ideological bias that drives you. when the courts in france withdraw the right of the anticor association to take legal action, no debate on the rule of law is held in the european parliament. it is true that in the same political and ideological family, we do not attack each other. the french minister of justice, the keeper of the seals, mr éric dupond-moretti, is being tried and acquitted by elected members of his own party for taking illegal interests, and the european union is silent. she cries out to scandal only against her adversaries. this permanent hypocrisy is now evident and unbearable to all. so leave the prerogatives to national sovereignty, respect once and for all democratic choices, but remember that it is always the people who have the last word.
madam president, i think this meeting is absolutely useless, and i don't know what we're doing here today. the opposition in slovakia didn't win the election, so sulfur, fire in slovakia, we're talking about our own state. that's probably the latest practice. in three and a half years, the opposition was persecuted, and so were the representatives of my own party, so you didn't mind. no one asked for a meeting of the european parliament here. people were dying in prison. the public hunt for opposition leaders was perfectly well conducted by the head of the special prosecutor's office, who you're defending here today, who was abused. this office has been used for political purges. the special counsel, mr. lipcic, whom you're protecting, has not been concealed as a political enemy of our political party. i cannot fully imagine how such a person can be absolutely impartial and make impartial decisions about the lives of all of us. the media received information from living documents and influenced public opinion in favor of the one that was right for them at the time. i think, my colleagues from slovakia, who initiated this meeting, that you are a disgrace to the slovak republic. today is st. lucia, and on st. lucia we cast out devils and stripes, and i believe that on june 8th next year, the slovaks will wipe you out. you'll be voted out of office at the euro elections and you'll never sit here again. i have a right to my opinion, my colleague, and i will listen to you.
madam president, commissioner reynders, thank you very much for outlining here, in the plenary of the european parliament, the concerns and the actions of the european commission, and for telling us in detail the steps that the european commission is undertaking to protect the rule of law in slovakia. it will be very important that we, as institutions of the european union, will together be active to prevent bad developments even before they are happening. unfortunately, what is happening now under the leadership of prime minister robert fico confirms our fears that we had before the election. we see that the actions of this government are weakening slovakia. we see that the rule of law in slovakia is weakened, and we are seeing that the separation of powers in slovakia is weakened. what is he doing? there is a clear overhauling of slovakia’s criminal code, dismantling of the special prosecutor’s office and the softening of penalties for corruption offences. why is he doing it? because he wants to strengthen his grip on power. what should we do? firstly, we should tell the people of the slovak republic who are going out publicly and saying that they are worried, we should tell the people: we hear you, we see you, we are with you, we are going to stand with you in defending the rule of law and european values in slovakia, and anywhere else in the european union. then we should act together as institutions of the european union to make sure that even before those dangers materialise we try to prevent them, because after laws are adopted, it will be much more complicated, it will be much more difficult. an attack upon the rule of law starts not with the adoption of the legislation, but with the drafting and the planning of it. we have a duty to act together to prevent bad things from happening in slovakia and to protect european values.
madam president! for eight years, pis lied in the government media that the european parliament was only discussing the rule of law in poland. what's the reality like? we talked about malta, greece, spain, and today's topic is the rule of law in slovakia. because here in europe, it's about rules. there's no place for double standards here. we're talking about the scandalous attempt by prime minister fico to change the law. we're talking about a change in the law that will allow people connected to the government in bratislava to avoid jail. somewhere in poland we know about morawiecki's impunity, which means the abolition of suspected covid spending. we also know about attacks on the independence of the prosecutor's office and we know about this express procedure in poland without analysis and without consultation. we know all this from somewhere, because authoritarianism has many faces and attacks in different places. the nightmare of populism on one side of the tatr is over, and on the other it's beginning. but there is hope: a strong civil society. let the polish example be a roadmap for slovakia. there is no place for double standards in the european social democracy. we don't want anything to do with a politician who's pushing for lgbt rights. we don't want anything to do with pro-russian politics. and in slovak: milí priatelia, priateľky z slovenska, defeat populism as in poland and build a united europe together.
thank you very much, mr. minister. i'm closing the debate.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six draft resolutions on the lack of information on mikhail statkiewicz and the recent attacks on family members of belarusian politicians and activists (2023/3023(rsp))*._______________* look at the minutes of the meeting.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 14 december 2023.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the six draft resolutions on the masay community in tanzania (2023/3024(rsp))*._______________* look at the minutes of the meeting.
mr. pošle, i remind you that, according to article 167 (2) of the rules of procedure, the proceedings are held only in the official language. i'm reminded of the future. thank you. thank you. reports from the chamber
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 14 december 2023.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six draft resolutions on the abduction of tibetan children and forced assimilation practices in chinese boarding schools in tibet (2023/3025(rsp))*._______________* look at the minutes of the meeting.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 14 december 2023.
the next item on the agenda is the council and commission statements on the fronteks based on an investigative investigation by the libe working group on the control of the fronteks (2023/2729(rsp)).
mr. president, what is this? your honor! while we're hearing voices of complacency about the cop28 achievements here, it's already clear to everyone that the world outside the united states and the european union has a completely different idea of sustaining economic growth. dramatic climate measures will not only keep the union isolated, but will also impose a burden on its citizens that is difficult to accept and lead to job losses. and the question is, are our citizens willing to buy expensive electric cars, pay several times higher bills for heating and food? i don't think he is. our planet is not dying. it's the people who die from poverty. and most of the people in the union don't want to die for the planet. the findings of cop 28 show that climate diplomacy is actually a mirage of the western liberal elites. the sooner we understand this, the better for europe. but just to be clear, renewable energy is, yes, but realistically and pragmatically. for the people, for their good and for a peaceful, better life.
mr. president, what is this? i see very damaging opinions on the polish side in this debate. i completely disagree with what you said to congressman kubilius, accusing poland of blocking the border by polish carriers. it's not like that. poland has been, is and will be in solidarity with ukraine. and no one else has helped ukraine and the people of ukraine like poles, poles and poles. the european commission, on the other hand, has done little. the european commission is wrong not to see what is happening on the other side of the border. it's not like those who protest on the polish side, i'm talking about the carriers and the farmers, they're doing it as a sham. it's just an act of desperation. this is an act of defense of their property. this is a defense of their property. and that's something you have to understand. we must be truly solidarity within the european union, but without harming the ordinary people who are doing business and suffering in this war. so please don't lie about the attitude of the poles, because we want to solve this problem. just let the commission get to work, because it's the main player here.
i am not going to say anything. i would like to say that the commission has already made a number of proposals. a member of the house of representatives, mrs aino salminen, is retiring. this is their last meeting. mrs salminen is unaware of this mention. (applause) mrs salminen has been working on the minutes of the plenary session for almost 29 years, working mainly for the plenary sessions, and we all know how difficult it is to draw up the minutes afterwards. i would like to thank mrs salminen for her contribution to the work of the plenary. i may be able to extend my thanks to all those who have made our work easier this week. we are at the end of this plenary session. as long as everyone's there before i do it this afternoon, i wish everyone a merry christmas. a relaxing time, a reflective time between the years and a good start to the next year for all of you. (applause)
the vote is closed. (the sitting is adjourned at 12.39 p.m.)
the minutes of yesterday's meeting and the texts adopted are available. i don't see any objections. the minutes are approved.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the oral question to the commission on improving the strategic approach to eu law enforcement by dolors montserrat on behalf of the committee on petitions (o-000047/2023 b90038/23) (2023/2886(rsp)).
author. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on 13 october 2022 the european commission adopted a communication entitled enforcing european union law for a europe that produces results. this document and previous communications, in particular the 2017 communication, entitled 'union law: improved results through better implementation', define the commission's strategic operational framework for the implementation of union law. under this strategic approach to the implementation of union law, the commission decided to prioritise systemic deficiencies, excluding individual cases where it considers that they do not raise broader principles. in particular, the commission focused its efforts on what it considered to be the most serious infringements of union law that would be prejudicial to the general interest. it may be cases where member states have failed to notify transposition measures, have failed to transpose the directives correctly or have failed to comply with a judgment of the court of justice of the european union; it may also be cases where member states have seriously damaged the financial interests of the european union or infringed the exclusive competence of the union. in all other cases, the commission tends to refer applications at national level, in particular to national courts. as a result, when a petitioner in our committee on petitions alleges an infringement of union law, the commission often refuses to act, commissioner, at least in part, because the petition concerns an individual case and not a systemic petition. as we all know - and this has already been confirmed by the court of justice - the european commission has full discretion to decide whether or not to initiate infringement proceedings. however, the commission's current approach to dealing with alleged infringements of union law and the infringement procedure could be perceived as inadequate by eu citizens. this may lead to a stalemate in proceedings for years at the pre-trial stage, without referral to the court of justice and without access to documents and information on the various actions taken in relation to infringement proceedings. i know this because i have initiated proceedings in connection with the most serious accident in the last 25 years in european history, the angrois accident in santiago de compostela, which has been pending for several years. in view of all that i have just said, i would therefore like to ask the commission today, on behalf of the committee on petitions and as its first vice-president, whether the commission considers that a collection of individual cases could demonstrate the systemic nature of an infringement; could the commission develop tools, particularly digital ones, to help connect and link complaints and petitions to this end? and secondly, how could the commission improve its strategic approach including increasing transparency in ongoing infringement procedures to ensure adequate monitoring of potential infringements detected by citizens through complaints and petitions? finally, another question: what measures does the european commission intend to take to increase the effectiveness of regulatory safeguards and what measures can be taken at national and union level to end breaches of union law more quickly? the question of the application of union law and the way in which the commission carries out its duty of guardianship of the treaties is of the utmost importance. it is necessary to assess the strategic approach to the implementation of union law, especially at a time when it is important to maintain the link with the citizens of the european union, to make them feel heard and to have confidence in our institutions. we are therefore awaiting your answers, commissioner. and i take advantage, president, since i had time to speak today and you didn't cut me, to complain about the day that you cut me for wearing a shirt that wasn't a political shirt. i wear a lot of t-shirts, i wanted to tell you in a moment.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i thank you for putting this important topic on the agenda today. your question centres on the commission’s strategic approach to enforcing eu law that the commission announced in its 2016 communication ‘eu law: better results through better application’. this approach has been designed to increase the effectiveness of the commission’s enforcement actions. effective and smart enforcement is about preventing breaches from happening in the first place. this is why the commission has continued to step up its efforts in this regard, for instance, by providing early support to member states on how to ensure effective implementation of eu law and to identify potential problems at an early stage. where preventive measures are not sufficient and breaches of law persist, the commission opens and pursues infringement procedures. in the years 2020 to 2022, the commission launched over 2 300 infringement procedures, an increase compared to the previous three years. in 2022 alone, the commission referred a total of 35 cases to the court of justice of the eu, and in 17 cases which were launched due to the late transposition of directives, the commission decided to request the court to impose financial sanctions against the member state concerned. indeed, the commission’s enforcement policy has evolved over time to ensure that it remains as impactful as possible. priority has been given to tackling breaches with the highest impact on the everyday lives of people and businesses. the primary purpose of the infringement procedure is to ensure that the member states give effect to eu law in the general interest. this means that where there are sufficient indications of a general practice or systemic failure, the commission will pursue the infringement. this includes cases based on individual complaints, but the infringement procedure is not designed to offer concrete solutions for individuals or to ensure individual redress. an individual case of misapplication of eu law, where there are insufficient indications of a general practice or systemic failure of compliance with eu law, is best dealt with by redress mechanisms at national level, closer to the citizen. these include, for instance, national courts, regulatory bodies, or ombuds. they often allow for quicker and more tailor-made solutions. the problem has a cross-border dimension. the solvit network may offer quick remedies. the commission values the input received from complainants and petitioners on individual cases of misapplication of eu law. if not followed up with specific investigations, they feed into the commission’s more global monitoring activities. and indeed, when such complaints become repetitive, they may form the basis for inquiries and investigations into potentially more structural and systemic failures. i stress that the commission invites complainants to refer a matter again to the commission, should there be additional evidence that points to a systemic failure. most importantly, if there is no alternative redress mechanism available, the commission continues to investigate the individual complaint or petition. it is ultimately the court of justice that is responsible for deciding on compliance of member states’ laws with eu law. the hurdle for the commission is high. to prove a systemic or structural breach of eu law, the commission must produce sufficient evidence to show that the member state’s authorities have developed a repeated, widespread and persistent practice which is contrary to eu law. this is why the commission cannot rely on simple presumptions or anecdotal indications. it must provide concrete evidence that the member state concerned has generally and persistently failed to fulfil its obligations under eu law. therefore, an accumulation of individual cases is not on its own necessarily sufficient to prove a systemic nature of a breach. as regards the use of it tools and transparency, the commission uses dedicated and collaborative it tools to handle petitions and complaints concerning an alleged breach of eu law. they make it possible to link existing complaints and petitions concerning the same grievances. this ensures that all relevant information is available to the commission to conduct the assessment. furthermore, to help the wider public engage in the shared responsibility on enforcement, the commission has stepped up transparency of its enforcement actions in recent years. good examples are an up-to-date public register on all infringement cases, and the annual report on monitoring the application of eu law. the commission also publishes press releases on all main infringement decisions. the commission’s 2022 communication ‘enforcing eu law for a europe that delivers’ sets out the main tools at the commission’s disposal to achieve compliance with eu law. more importantly, it set out the concrete benefits the commission’s actions bring to people and businesses. numerous examples in the fields of environment, consumer protection and single market, among others, show that the commission’s strategic approach works, but there is no time to be complacent. the enforcement of eu law is an ongoing task and, at times, challenging. to ensure that the way the commission enforces eu law is also future-proof, over the last year, the commission conducted a stocktaking exercise on its working methods for monitoring the application of eu law. this led, in july 2023, to targeted recommendations, which are currently being implemented by the commission, where appropriate, together with the member states. further strengthening transparency on the commission’s enforcement actions is one of the recommended improvements, notably by publishing information in a more user-friendly and meaningful way. in all these efforts, the commission pursues one overall objective, namely, to achieve compliance as soon as possible and to ensure that citizens and businesses enjoy the benefits of eu law wherever they live in the eu.
on behalf of the epp group. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. the honourable commissioner! dear colleagues and colleagues! i thank the members of the committee on petitions and its president, mrs dolores montserrat, for taking up this important subject. it is from the committee on petitions that these very important signals emerge that community law is not being properly transposed into the legal systems of the member states and is doing so at the expense of citizens. as we know, article 17 of the treaty on european union states that the european commission is obliged to enforce eu law by monitoring the application of primary and secondary law and is also obliged to ensure its uniform application throughout the european union. i agree with the announcement, with the information you provided by commissioner dalla on the extent to which this law can be effectively enforced. we agree that this enforcement should be improved. what concerns me most is not only the wrongful transposition of the law on the right to a fair trial, but above all the swift right of citizens to hear their complaints about laws that harm them. and i can also agree with mrs. miranda, who says that the solution to this problem could be the introduction of a digital platform. the petition is a very important instrument which allows citizens to directly influence the process of exercising power and the extension of their time to consider matters clearly violates the right to a speedy and fair trial. so it's disrespectful to citizens too, and we represent the citizens of the european union. i therefore firmly sign the call to strengthen our joint efforts on this issue. i thank the european commissioners for their involvement. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i am not going to say anything. - what? ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament! the rules of law should be responsive to societal needs and their effective enforcement should increase the sense of security and the protection of european interests. the law should also be alive, which means keeping up with the changes in modern society and responding to the challenges of today. one of them is the loneliness plague. on the page science in poland under the slogan loneliness we find extensive articles entitled: last year 1.5 thousand seniors took their own lives, loneliness affects human physiology, loneliness is regularly felt by 65% of the generation z. loneliness is equal. there's no age, no gender, no profession, no economic status. the loneliness epidemic is a very accurate and difficult diagnosis of our age. the institutions, including the european union, need time to find appropriate solutions to modern problems, but they can and should benefit from excellent bottom-up initiatives and solutions that have already worked. one of them was born in silesia. katowice free place foundation has created one of the first social shops in poland and is continuously supporting people in loneliness crisis. (the chairman interrupted the speaker)
colleague, i let you speak but i hardly see that you talk about the issue.
on behalf of the s&d group. recently, they have even launched a ministry of loneliness, a place where lonely people of all ages meet and spend time together. such places and organisations should be all over europe. let's create such ministries of loneliness and systematically respond to this pan-european epidemic. we should also systematically regulate the status of social shops throughout the union. these could be good places to fight loneliness. let's fight the consequences, but let's finally start eliminating the causes. and to the very end. poland has returned to full membership of the european union, soon to full power tripartite and to respect european law.
