madam president, in the name of the socialists and democrats, to say that we do support the fact that we should have only one debate. and that if we had to come to this situation, which we have very different proposals, if it was not possible by then to have from a minority proposal a large proposal – now it is – i thank renew for a good proposal that can capture the majority and that still needs words and allows us to debate the situation of the interference of different countries. so full support for one debate, as proposed by renew.
mr president, 447 million consumers, 23 million businesses, 56 million jobs. thirty years later, these are the figures for the single market and they say a lot about its success. a birthday is a time to celebrate, but also to look to the future, and that's why i've chosen three challenges that we should face. many professions architects, lawyers, accountants still face barriers to the provision of services in the internal market, which are detrimental to the professionals concerned and to the users of their services. they have to be removed. we also need a more ambitious social agenda, one that levels out labour and social policies, ensuring that the largest market on the planet is also the one that treats its workers best. finally, in a europe which has been so generous in setting up 48 agencies in total, it is strange, madam vice-president, that our concern for consumers, the very reason for this market, is not reflected in the creation of a european agency for their more effective, integrated and harmonized protection. for 30 years of success and for all those to come: congratulations to the single market and the europeans who benefit from it.
in writing. 30 years of the european union's single market, a market that allows european citizens to study, live, work and shop in any member state. a single market that is the backbone of europe's resilience, enabling it to emerge stronger from the covid-19 pandemic and the current energy crisis, helping businesses to diversify their supply chains and to find new solutions and opportunities. the idea of a europe without frontiers takes on a new dimension in the ultra-peripheral regions, such as the ors. the natural constraints of the territories are swept away by this free and unfettered market, where people and goods move freely. today, all citizens have an easier time getting to the continent, whether for study or work, narrowing the distance that the ocean forms. goods and products produced in these regions are increasingly easily traded, with no barriers to their marketing and with an increasing focus on local and quality production. strengthening and developing the single market will be necessary to ensure that the green and digital transition in these regions is fair and leaves no one behind.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force. the weather we see every day. fiscal policy is a competence of the states, which can and should be used better in times of crisis. taxation is essential to promote employment, growth and competitiveness. they are a direct and effective way of reducing the burden on households and businesses, while safeguarding the ability of states to put budgets at the service of the people. unfortunately, there are member states, such as my own, portugal, which insist on excessive tax burdens on taxpayers. we need concrete responses to the rising cost of living. and the first of those should be a tax cut. transferring the responsibilities of governments to taxpayers is socially unfair and economically wrong. the directive we are discussing today, on the misuse of shell companies for tax purposes, is very important in ensuring that tax competition in europe is fair, fair and transparent. moreover, it is a concrete step toward eradicating tax schemes that may seem legal but are immoral. these are strategies by some multinationals to avoid paying taxes in the countries where they make their profits. the european union will be the first place to legislate on the misuse of shell companies. that is why the requirement for proportionality and intelligence in regulation is even greater. if on the one hand we cannot be conciliatory with abuses, on the other hand we cannot create too many barriers to business establishment or increase the bureaucracy to which many businesses are subject. the european parliament's position is clear on priorities. the national governments must now join us in this endeavour. i can sum up our proposals in three words: balance, transparency and demand. first, a balance in the definition of the undertakings which are covered by the additional information obligations imposed by this directive. while we are increasing the range of companies potentially covered, we are also clarifying that the requirements laid down by law must be cumulative and maintaining an important set of exceptions for sectors which are already sufficiently regulated. second, transparency in what we ask companies to do. if it is true that we have increased the level of information that must be shared, it is no less true that we have placed a burden on the tax authorities. we have set concrete deadlines for responses and the possibility of joint audits. thirdly, the requirement of the consequences we determine for considering a company as a front. we focus this consequence not on the issuing of a tax residence certificate, but we go further. we have differentiated between non-declaration and fraud and have made the penalty figures clearer. our work is done. the national governments are now being asked to take a decision. the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion has never been more necessary and more demanded by citizens who want more tax justice and greater transparency. times like the one we're living in are fueling this debate. let us do so in commitment to the solutions we stand for, but let us have the courage to decide.
mr president, shell companies have for many years been one of the main instruments for real companies to evade their tax obligations. the pandora papers scandal has shown how these companies are systematically used, but it has also shown how there are jurisdictions, including in europe, that favor, create the ideal regulatory framework so that these companies can be used to evade taxes. the commission has put forward a proposal to regulate shell companies because it had to do so in the light of the latter scandal. but this proposal is an absolutely useless proposal, it was an absolutely useless proposal, which maintained a swiss cheese of exemptions, exceptions and economic substance criteria which are very easy to comply with; and, moreover, these criteria would have to be assessed by the member states, many of which are precisely those jurisdictions which promote tax evasion. the commission's proposal has been marginally improved by parliament's proposal, and for that reason alone we will support it, but the truth is that this proposal is a pause for a reassessment, which was put forward by the left group, and fortunately, it will also serve to show us in a few years' time that we have made very little progress. it is a pity that the commission is not prepared to tackle this problem seriously, and it is a pity that the right-wing groups have preferred to be on the side of evasion.
the rapporteur. - mr president, we come to the end of this debate with a clear conclusion, an interesting clue and a strange feeling. we draw the clear conclusion that, despite the differences between the political families, there is a shared understanding. and on this subject i would like to reply to mr josé gusmão, in his attempt to put the fight against evasion always on the side of the left. for you should know that our work is the result of compromise and therefore the right does not stand for tax evasion, the right stands for the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance, once again. and so i don't think that this is a serious debate. especially after all the stuff we've heard from our peers, where we've all tried to row in the same direction. and that's what we got. tax policy is a matter for the member states and this parliament is signalling that where it can help, it is prepared to do so. i would therefore like to stress the commitment that has been reached between all the political groups. we also found an interesting clue. in a parliament with limited powers on taxation, we have worked on concrete solutions for the future of taxation and we have always worked in a spirit of compromise which shows that we can go beyond our differences to decide. once again, the left group supports this compromise. finally, we have the strange feeling about the commitment of national governments to this effort. i understand that there are governments that want to keep everything the same, but there are only two possible ways to ensure that our budgets have sufficient resources. either we burden citizens even more with taxes, suffocating them with tax burdens that hijack their income, or we free up resources by concentrating our efforts on combating evasion and fraud, and reducing taxes for households. for my part, the choice is clear: i prefer the path of demanding and defending tax justice, which is why our work on this directive is so important. we shall see what the national governments do next. we'll be here to greet you or to criticize you. in any case, to hold them accountable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, some of the artisan bakers in crotoy and abbeville whom i met last week have seen their electricity bill increase fivefold, and 80% of them fear bankruptcy. france has been able to guarantee its people and businesses clean and cheap energy for a very long time. but, at the instigation of the european commission, instead of strengthening its nuclear know-how, it was drawn into energy transition programmes, particularly wind, neglecting research and development in its own area of excellence and sacrificing its energy sovereignty. the final blow is now being delivered by the european energy market, which links the price of electricity to the price of gas. with the increase in the price of gas, we are witnessing, in a totally artificial way, an unprecedented surge in the price of electricity in france. we, the elected representatives of the national assembly, demand without delay a revision of the rules and a general reduction in vat on essential goods. france would no longer be france without the baguette, and alongside marine le pen and jordan bardella, all the elected representatives of our movement are showing their unwavering support for the artisan bakers of france to ensure the continuity of their profession, a true icon of france. our support to you, my dear artisan bakers.
mr president, social media enriches our lives in many ways. people are more connected than ever. however, there is no such thing as a free lunch. algorithms that make us see funny cats, shallow celebrities, pie-eating contests, mediocre influencers and fake news. while at the same time chinese children see educational videos, science experiments and successful patriots. colleagues we need to talk about tiktok owned by a chinese company. the chinese version is very different than the one in the west. we should be highly concerned about the addictive algorithms of tiktok. they are profiling our children, risking to undermine our society in the long run. it almost looks like psychological warfare. it’s time we take a critical look at our social media landscape with national security in the back of our minds. because who needs the chinese people’s liberation army when we are destroying ourselves from within?
mr president, the present situation is characterized by an accelerated deterioration in living conditions, with rising prices and a real loss of purchasing power. the housing problem is even more central in this context, because of speculation in renting and buying, aggravated by the successive and significant increases in interest rates imposed by the ecb, with unbearable increases in housing credit facilities. the decision to raise interest rates puts thousands of families in a situation where they may not be able to afford the repayment of bank credit, threatening to lose their homes. urgent measures are therefore needed to cut back on the greed of the banks for profit and to give families security in the possibility of maintaining their homes. the first is the regulation of the housing market, the fixing of maximum spreads and the possibility of renegotiating loans, as well as the necessary public investment in housing, with a view to combating speculation and exploitation and to widening the public housing supply, which is a constitutionally enshrined right in portugal.
madam president, mr prime minister, mr vice-president šefčovič, the review of the european union's economic governance rules and the debate on the new own resources to finance common challenges at european level are two important points on the european agenda this semester. in economic governance: we need the presidency to reach an agreement in the council so that legislative proposals arrive and parliament takes up its role as co-legislator. member states need clear, simple, transparent and balanced rules in a timely manner to be able to prepare their 2024 state budgets and to know the intentions of the european institutions on the activation/deactivation of the escape clause. the new own resources: the fulfilment of commitments such as nextgenerationeu depends on them, and the level of ambition of the european union depends on them. for example, it is not enough to talk about strategic autonomy; it must be built and financed. on these two points we expect the swedish presidency to show a sense of urgency.
mr president, commissioner, the world of video games has come a long way since the days when you blew on nintendo cassettes to make the game work. today, in addition to consoles and computers, almost all youths and adults play games connected to the internet. while this opened up many opportunities and helped video games become an industry with great economic impact, it also brought some dangers for consumers. i'll just highlight a few. sometimes the installation of video games is free. companies are paid for collecting personal data, which then feeds into targeted advertising, or selling products within the games themselves, which requires players to be glued to the screen. it is therefore important to strengthen parental controls, limit manipulative business practices and the collection of personal data, in order to prevent negative impacts on daily life, including financial, and even mental health problems, especially in young people. with this report, commissioner, we are asking you to study the problem and we are suggesting some solutions to ensure that online video games, like the old consoles, are a safe time for fun and even learning.
mr president, commissioner, madam president-in-office, ladies and gentlemen, we need answers to the shortage of medicines and the european union has the capacity to provide them. we need the european medicines agency to be able to identify the missing medicines, but also the production and supply points where there are shortcomings. we need transparency from companies on stockpiling and withdrawals, and also to move towards joint purchases of essential medicines, as happened for covid-19 vaccines. and we also need this new pharmaceutical strategy for europe to help make the european union self-sufficient and sustainable in the production of medicines. access to medicines cannot fluctuate as a result of war, inflation or other disruptions. millions of lives depend on these drugs and so do the things we do here in the european parliament, in the european union. this is our duty, and only together can we rise to the challenge.
mr president, commissioner, we already know what has been said here, namely that the increase in farmers' incomes is not accompanied by an increase in foodstuffs in the same proportion. and the commissioner agrees. he's analyzed it and he agrees. this agreement is important, but the point, on which i agree with many of my colleagues, is that i wanted the commissioner to say, in an objective way: the commission has already done this to solve this deficit. what the commissioner has told us is only two things: the cap and the strategic plans, the cap and the policies of the member states. i am sorry, mr commissioner, but that is not enough, because what we want to hear here is that the commission, faced with this reality, which is damaging farmers' incomes, has an extraordinary measure to make this compensation a reality. the cap was not designed to combat inflation, so it is not fair to take refuge in the cap and the capp in defence of farmers.
mr president, mr high representative, the annual reports on the common foreign and security policy and defence policy represent the position of this parliament on some of the most important policies of the union. the relevance of these policies became more evident with russia's war of aggression in ukraine. he stressed the need for closer coordination between member states and the implementation of a genuine common foreign and security policy. it outlined the relevance of the strategic compass presented by the high representative in due course. at a crucial moment, we surprised putin, we managed to unite and we must remain united by our strategic autonomy, use more of our foreign policy tools to promote our values, but also strengthen our main alliances. the world has become a much more dangerous place. it needs a european union that is more determined and more capable of contributing to peace, security, stability and global development.
the report is a report which is a very important one, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support it. 75% of the world's population has experienced a deterioration in the human rights situation in their country in recent years. many of the authoritarian regimes have become radicalized. the conflict has not abated. and all this makes the need for protection for those who are fighting for peace, democracy and human rights all the more urgent. this year we will mark the 75th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights. let us use this moment to strengthen the action of the european union. the rule of conditionality in the area of democracy and human rights must be applied in practice in all trade agreements, and due diligence must be definitively advanced. human rights dialogues cannot continue to be mere monologues crossed for diplomatic record. it is more important than ever that the european union should act swiftly and effectively by adopting qualified majority voting in these matters. only then will we honor this cause that is all of ours.
madam president, the death penalty is a cruel, inhuman and degrading anachronism. the brutality with which the iranian regime has responded to the peaceful protests of men, women and young people who are in the streets crying out for freedom, life and democracy cannot be tolerated. what is happening in iran, with the use of the death penalty and the use of death sentences as a terror mechanism, must call for an unequivocal response from the european union. the sanctions adopted must therefore be strengthened, by including a wider range of actors in these atrocities, and support must be given to activists, journalists and all those who are currently in need of international protection, as well as increased support to civil society from the various diplomatic missions. we demand that the islamic revolutionary guard be included in the list of terrorist organizations. we demand the unconditional release and return of the europeans detained in iran. to paraphrase victor hugo, i say it too: death to death, live to live.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, this strategy, the path it is trying to take and its objectives can easily be explained by the content of vice-president borrell's recent statements. that is, a strategy of a neo-colonial nature, aimed at creating new dependencies and serving only the interests of the large economic groups and their greedy profit, to the detriment of the workers and peoples of latin america and the caribbean. what the conqueror mr borrell intends to do, in what he considers the jungle beyond the garden, is to sail on seas that have been sailed before, to open the way for european multinationals to exploit and appropriate resources that belong only to the peoples of latin america and the caribbean. instead of this path and these unfortunate declarations, what we are advocating are mutually beneficial relations between the member states and the countries of latin america, based on respect for sovereignty and independence, without external interference, in compliance with the principles of the united nations charter, and the right of these peoples, with whom we stand in solidarity, to choose freely their own path of development and social progress.
madam president, commissioner, the year 2023 is off to a good start, with the focus on what unites us with latin america rather than what divides us. finally, let us debate in this parliament a positive and ambitious agenda, one that strengthens ties with this region, not only in terms of shared values, but also as key partners in trade agreements and cooperation for environmental and digital transitions in a fair way. i would like to highlight the digital alliance initiative, which will be presented shortly. it would be important for us to focus not just on competition with china and the united states but on specific actions. that is, in joint projects that allow us to use the work we have done on european regulations, such as the dsa, the dma, artificial intelligence, as the basis for a common democratic digital model. or enhancing the connectivity and data sharing enabled by projects like bella and ellalink, not to mention cybersecurity. latin america is the european union's most natural partner. i hope that the path we have started here today lays the foundations for a stronger relationship in the future.
madam president, the relationship between the european union and latin america has always been strong, thanks to the historical and cultural ties, and also to the shared values. strengthening these relations with our partners through greater cooperation and mutual assistance will benefit both regions. pilot projects and the sharing of good practices can be a vital opportunity to renew this relationship. i give the example of costa rica, a world leader in the fight against climate change, where the ambitious policies of decarbonisation and biodiversity protection already in place can be strengthened in the european union and vice versa. this cooperation between the eu and latin america should thus consolidate an alliance that is strong, strategic and beneficial, and that is always guided by the defence of the fundamental values that guide the european union, and against totalitarian regimes, including through the reform of the multilateral system. latin american countries are allies in many of today's global challenges, and it's time to recognize that.
madam president, commissioner, the promotion of the multilateral dimension in the european union's foreign policy necessarily integrates latin america as a natural partner, as a strategic partner. portugal and spain, too, have since their accession, through their bilateral relations, made a significant contribution to the strengthening of this relationship. i cannot help recalling that the first eu-brazil summit took place during the portuguese presidency of the council in 2007, with president lula. we have three key instruments in this relationship: the eu-chile, eu-mexico and eu-mercosur agreements. we have a favourable political context on the other side of the atlantic today. we share the same values. we can't let this opportunity go to waste. we must do what is necessary to conclude the agreements quickly so that 2023 is indeed the year of latin america.
madam president, president of the council, commission, throughout the year 2022 the europeans have been uncompromisingly supportive of the ukrainians. today, when some of those responsible, but also many others, including many children, have lost their lives, we renew that support. but throughout 2022, we too, socialists and democrats, are advocating not only support for the ukrainians but support for the europeans who have suffered from the rising cost of living here in europe. we made some important gains at the end of the year: taxing windfall profits, the care program to support the most vulnerable families in this crisis. it was worth the fight. bringing the bills down is our priority, it remains our priority in the european context. no more vulnerable family should have their energy contracts cut because they can't pay. we want legislative action in this direction and we ask the european commission to give priority to european families, as it has been able to do with regard to businesses, in the proposal which has been brought before us today.
madam president, president of the european council, vice-president of the commission, the european council stressed the importance, in the current world context, of an ambitious european industrial policy to adapt the european economy to the ecological and digital transitions and to reduce strategic dependencies. when will the european commission propose the creation of an investment fund, the sovereignty fund, which can support this european industrial policy? at the end of last year, portugal, spain and france jointly committed themselves to a programme aimed at the full integration of these three countries into the internal energy market. i would like to leave a message to the commission that it must do everything possible to ensure that this agreement is respected, that the necessary funding is made available in time, that the timetable is respected. it is indeed an important instrument for the green transition, for building energy autonomy, for building the energy union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission has an ambition: to re-industrialize europe so that it can produce what it needs and to implement the ecological transition. to achieve this, the institutions want to strengthen the competitiveness of european industry. but i ask myself this simple question: how can we re-industrialize our continent without protectionism and without price controls on the most essential commodity for industry, namely energy? how can we talk about competitiveness when electricity bills are pushing our artisans, our smes, our smes to relocate every day? while the commission is swearing by the internal market, our direct competitors, led by the united states, are taking advantage of our inability to regulate energy prices to attract our industries, which are struggling with electricity prices, to their territory. where the eu talks about the market, our competitors plan and regulate. where we sign free trade agreements, our competitors protect and subsidize their strategic products. so yes, we need to put an industrial strategy in place in europe, but for that we must move beyond the logic of the market to turn to strategic production, starting with energy. it's about our sovereignty.
madam president, please. sir, how can it be that you wait six months for europe to respond appropriately to the american law to reduce inflation? in fact, you first welcomed it. i also find it puzzling why they are only now beginning to consult the member states. what have you been doing? there is a danger that the most advanced european companies will move to the us, and the losers will be smes. hungary is particularly affected by the law because it has invested heavily in the sustainability industry. the union's competitiveness has long been a problem. there are no europeans among the 20 largest companies in the world. energy costs are higher than competitors because of the war and sanctions. meanwhile, europe's economy will stagnate this year. the commission should propose measures to protect industry and improve the attractiveness of our investment environment. it ensures that smaller member states also benefit from the same relief. adjust the state aid rules to the changed circumstances. the european parliament must finally stop blocking free trade agreements on ideological grounds and allow european companies to have access to them. by withholding money from us, the commission is deliberately putting hungary and poland at a competitive disadvantage. we expect impartiality and impartiality. we must finally liquidate our resources and ensure equal opportunities in the internal market.
madam president, mr vice-president, on monday we celebrated the success of our 30th anniversary of the single market. today, unchecked state largesse threatens its continued existence in the form of undue subsidies. picking winners and losers fragments the internal market. it is divisive internally when smaller member states like belgium and my own, luxembourg, see their spending power eclipsed by their larger neighbours. and it is divisive externally when it locks us into a doomed race to the bottom against our allies like the us. dislocating the foundations of our single market and tightening us protectionism with similar foolishness is not how we restore our competitiveness. we should instead play to our strengths and build trade partnerships that benefit all member states alike. in this framework, i welcome very much the commitment of ursula von der leyen to mercosur as well. we have to secure access to the raw materials that will drive our green transition, create new opportunities and drive costs down for our companies. red tape is also one of the big issues we need to fight.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the danger of the delocalisation of industries of the future has been analysed correctly. the focus on digitisation and green energy has been well presented. they are beautiful and right goals. but let's face it: we as the european union don't have the financial means to do that. the fact that we in the house are in favour of this does not change anything in the european economy. we need government money to steer our economy in the right direction. but where does it come from? either from the eu, but we have no money, very much a single market. or the member states, which have some money but no single market. i would ask you not to jeopardise the single market. the fact that some member states can afford it does not mean that we can relax the rules on aid to the extent that we are undermining competition and the single market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. but above all we need more eu firepower, and the mff is not enough. we need permanent debt-financed investment funds. and we must talk about this if we do not want to sacrifice the single market and european competition.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission and president von der leyen are announcing an industrial plan for the green deal and for the transition to zero emissions, avoiding relocations. the plan, however, focuses on increasing state aid to energy-intensive industries. i want to bring it to the floor, take the opportunity to talk to you about a particular case. in italy, in taranto, the government allocates hundreds of millions to keep the steel mill that pollutes in accordance with the law in operation. and it is not a paradox. it is a tragic reality, because in the last ten years all governments have decreed the possibility of producing by polluting and operating even in the shelter of the judiciary, while a first instance judgment already identifies precise responsibilities in the "environmental sale" process. and what's happening today? the meloni government is introducing a criminal shield. you understand, for those who will manage the former ilva there will be immunity from prosecution. it will be possible to continue production with impunity. yesterday, in taranto, citizens, environmentalists, stakeholders, clean industrialists rebelled by taking to the streets, while the tamburi district's power stations report dangerous spikes in the level of benzene in the air. benzene is a carcinogen. in taranto health is still being sacrificed on the altar of profit, and moreover, with the help of the state and, at this point, with the help of europe. if the industrial plan for the green deal starts from the same premises that condemned my city, it will not be just the tarantoes who will cry, it will be all of europe. we must make sense of the treaties, make sense of the european directives, and stop these plants once and for all.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the americans, with their american workers first policy, are investing in future technologies, in the revitalization of their production facilities, in the modernization of their dilapidated infrastructure and in jobs. china is also investing huge sums. but the eu has been paralysed for far too long by the echo of neoliberal allergies to government commitment to meaningful production and future-oriented investment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i want to be very clear: we cannot allow the net-zero industry act to create another underfunded bureaucratic monster like the chips act. i would like to make an urgent appeal to the council and the commission to put money in their hands. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. we need competitive and equal investment, bold investment in all the world's economic centres, to be able to stop climate change together and to organise economic reconstruction that is socially and environmentally responsible. let us not leave the eu-27 behind as a location. let us act responsibly and cooperatively for the global economy, including with regard to africa and the global south. for too long the eu has been acting at the expense of others.
madam president, commissioner breton, madam roswall, ladies and gentlemen, our fellow citizens need a strong response from the union to the challenges we face at international level. we cannot allow our industry to be outsourced, especially to competitive markets such as the united states and china. the green objectives we have set ourselves through the incentives for the development of a zero-impact industry are and remain central and indispensable, but our response must be a united european response, which really pursues the general interest of the union. that is why we must ensure that the equal playing field is respected at both the intra- and extra-european level, both of which are equally important. a large public european fund will therefore be needed, to prevent the countries with more fiscal space from saving themselves at the expense of all the others. the tragedy of the pandemic has taught us that only together can we defend our europe and our fellow citizens, and only together can we promote true european autonomy and sovereignty, including technological and industrial. let us remember and really apply this lesson, it is more than a political duty, it is a moral imperative for us.
madam president, commissioner, madam president-in-office of the council, international competition is very intense today and the european union must act with intelligence and determination. some of our partners are already doing so, as is the well-known case of the united states with the inflation reduction act. our aim must be to strengthen competitiveness and strengthen our industry. action must be taken at many levels, for example through a significantly more integrated energy policy, by removing administrative barriers and speeding up the granting of permits to create new industries and thus attract investment, and also by increasing aid of various types to the most strategic sectors. but not just for its implementation, but also for its operation in the medium term, when necessary. this week we have celebrated the 30th anniversary of the single market, one of the great milestones of the european project. the future clean tech act should take this very seriously and avoid distortions that could arise from the different borrowing capacity of member states.
president, commissioner, minister, brussels is breeding billions in aid for businesses. businesses and people have been struggling since the invasion of ukraine and the energy crisis. and there's also a us mega-aid package coming. european support must ensure that our companies are in the lead. that's what's important. in fact, it is essential. without aid, our economy will soon be in trouble, the european commission rightly warned. but let me also warn the european commission. public money can only be invested where decent working conditions are respected, where people are paid decent wages. public money should not be used to create shoddy jobs that exploit people. let us not, in these times, compromise our values, for that will make this race a race to the top instead of a race to the bottom.
madam president, commissioner, there is no doubt that international trade is in a very difficult and complex situation, exacerbated by the action of the united states with the adoption of the law on the reduction of inflation, which is undoubtedly a turn towards protectionism, triggering a global chain of subsidies where the strongest and not the most competitive prevails. europe must act now. we have seen the consequences of the lack of a genuine industrial, technological, innovation and trade policy which guarantees a level playing field for our companies, our industry and its development. failure to do so has led to business offshoring. and that's a mistake that can't happen again. europe needs a plan. you need a plan now. and the question is, do we have a global plan? how are we to ensure that this plan guarantees unity of the market and a balanced distribution among the member states so that what has happened so far does not happen? we need to continue to dialogue with the united states to ensure that the measures taken in the inflation reduction act are corrected so that they do not discriminate against our companies. my group will support a smart strategy combining all these elements. but we need a plan in which the european parliament also plays a decisive role.
mr president, commissioner, european industry has been hit hard by the energy price crisis. many countries have responded to this crisis in a determined and timely manner. unfortunately, this was not the case in my country, portugal, whose government reacted slowly and timidly to the problems in the sector. i hope that in future there will be a different approach, not only to when and how to mobilise financial support, but also to what measures to take in terms of reducing bureaucratic burdens, the functioning of the judiciary, the creation of all the conditions favourable to industry, such as a strong science and innovation ecosystem, because only then will we have real economic growth, wealth creation and more quality jobs.
madam president, presidency, commissioner, dear colleagues, i am pleased to say that we are discussing enhancing the competitiveness of europe. however, i want to underline that the way of boosting europe’s competitiveness is not done by relaxing the state aid rules – not at all. in order to be competitive on the global markets, europe needs successful companies, industries and jobs. to achieve that, we need to have regulation that encourages investments and innovations in europe. we have to cut red tape from our businesses, smes and industries. here i find it very positive that commission president von der leyen has promised to perform a competitiveness check on all new regulations being introduced. this is an important step in the right direction. secondly, europe needs to invest more in research and development. in this regard, we have fallen behind the us and china. and thirdly, we need to ensure that europe has a skilled workforce. we know that the lack of skilled workforce is a crucial issue, especially in the digital sector, which is a sector essential for increasing our productivity and economic growth.
a uachtaráin, okay, so we have a problem with china. we have a problem with our friends in the us. but our biggest problem is with ourselves. as commissioner breton said, we’ve been too naive. my friend esther de lange said, ‘we need to be smart and flexible’, and therein is the solution. we have allowed galloping regulation to stifle our industries and drive them out of europe. who’s to blame for that? ultimately, politicians, because politicians are supposed to rule. so we’ve got to get hold of it here in the european parliament and get rid of regulation that’s not helping us to be competitive. and ministers in governments across europe have to get hold of the civil servants who are gold-plating regulation, making it even worse than it is here in europe. when we have done that and dealt with it, and got a good knife and got rid of all the necessary regulation, then we can talk about dealing with our friends in the west and those in china.
madam president, commissioner, it is certainly good that we are looking at how to increase industrial competitiveness. first of all, we must have a european industry. let's not forget we're dependent on imports. there is hardly an industrial product that we don't need to supplement with imports. so i think that in order to start up capabilities that complete the value chain for each product, we need investment, we need targeted investment. and there is another problem, commissioner, we have been talking here about the strategy of america first. we cannot stop the americans, but let us also make europe first, find solutions to integrate these value chains, integrate smes there, allocate budgets and member states and the european budget to innovation, because otherwise we will not be able to be competitive. and i think it can, the important thing is that we want to do this and we want to do it in an organized way.
madam president, in today's debate on industrial strategy, we would like to recall once again how, in countries like portugal, we have seen for decades the destruction of the productive apparatus and the intensification of depopulation and desertification of large areas of the country, sacrificing the indispensable foundations for a genuine process of economic and social development. this situation reflects the profoundly asymmetrical impact of the european union's common and neoliberal policies on the states and confirms the need to recover national sovereignty in areas such as industry, agriculture, fisheries, trade and energy. insisting on the logic of competitiveness and the single market will not change the results, and will continue to harm countries like portugal. the strategy we are advocating is to promote national production and the exploitation of the country's potential; to combat external dependence and to affirm a sovereign path of development; to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; to create jobs with rights, giving workers dignity; to value stable wages and ties, preventing workers from being forced to emigrate.
mr. chairman, please. when the ab5 bill was introduced in california, uber and the other platform companies spent over 200 million dollars on anti-ab5 campaigns. the law that was supposed to stop the gross exploitation of fake self-employed on digital platforms. with this campaign, they succeeded in securing an exception for uber drivers that still applies today, even though it is unconstitutional. it's something that was thought to be a uniquely american condition. but it has also happened in europe. here, uber has been carried through the eu system, to put it mildly, by heads of government and eu commissioners. because here, apparently, big business has been given a very special access to tell about their business model. and today we have only a simple statement without any sanctions. although 124,000 pages of uber leaks completely prove we should have done the opposite. next month we will vote on the platform directive. because there is also a lot of resistance in the european parliament to decent working conditions and pay for those who work on digital platforms. i now come with a big appeal: stop uber's lucrative access to the eu institutions and instead support the conditions of workers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet its obligations under the treaty.
mr. president, i have to go. respected ! uber has gone far beyond established lobbying practices in its drive to aggressively expand globally. the method is supposed to include disregard for the law, misleading the police. uber has also been accused of exploiting violence against drivers and lobbying governments in secret. employees should be aware that their business model is illegal in many countries. the hunter-gatherer companies have also entered my country, the republic of slovenia. the legal basis for the operation of uber was proposed by the previous government. moreover, it is difficult to lose sight of the lack of transparency, as its minister for digital affairs even acted as a lobbyist for uber before taking office. let me be clear. this kind of covert and controversial methods of attempting to influence decision-makers is an attack on democracy! it's about operating like the wild west, where there are no rules and where exploitation, manipulation and corruption flourish. we must act decisively. we need to tighten the rules on transparency and demand full disclosure, and punish and expose violators. such practices, my friends, must be resisted with all our might.
mr president, deregulation, liberalization and precariousness are the face of a policy which sees the new technologies as a new and modern opportunity for increased exploitation, the destruction of workers' rights, and the expansion and concentration of capital. the business model promoted by the multinational platform companies can only please this neoliberal european union. the so-called uber files, exposing the close relations between the national company uber and a number of policy-makers in the member states and the european institutions, which allowed the entry and territorial deployment of this company and its multiple services, reveal very objectively who and what interests the european union serves. when i asked in july about the state of play of the investigations and what action had already been taken on the information in the uber files, the commission gave me the same answer it gave to the thousands of taxi drivers who demonstrated in brussels in september 2022: none. they say silence is consent. we will not be silenced.
author. mr president, we will not let democracy slip out of our hands. these were the words of president lula da silva at the planalto palace after receiving the support of the governors of all the brazilian states, the president of the congress, the judges of the supreme federal court, in the aftermath of the unacceptable attacks of 8 january. this unexpected moment of broad convergence of brazilian society was accompanied by statements from several world leaders and the international community. the imitation game that the pro-bolsonaro movements have made of the capitol attack in the united states turns out to be a repetition of similar methods of the extreme right. the non-recognition of the result of democratic elections, the creation and dissemination of false information through social networks, which empower extremist positions, and the use of these platforms to organize and encourage such events have become a contagious anti-democratic virus that must be repudiated. and europe is not immune to it. this situation is yet another example of the importance of a broad global collaboration around the regulation needed to ensure a digital democratic model. ladies and gentlemen, when i saw the vandalism of the painting of the mulattas by di cavalcanti or the flag of brazil by jorge eduardo, which i had the pleasure of visiting, on television reports, i felt that this attack was not only on democratic institutions, it was an unacceptable violation of the culture and memory of brazil, which left me deeply shocked. it is now important that they continue their investigations, identifying the direct perpetrators, but also all those who have instigated and financed these events. we know how impunity corrodes democratic societies. i hope that this joint resolution and the convergence of views which has given rise to it, and i thank all those who have contributed to it, will be a clear demonstration of this parliament's solidarity with the brazilian government and its legitimately elected president, lula da silva.
mr president, thank you katalin for your speech. what do we actually learn from these events in brazil? be aware of strong men: they sell you sweet language and easy solutions. and it’s a global phenomenon that we see with bolsonaro, with trump, but it can also be observed right here in europe with meloni, salvini, vučić, orbán, austrian kickl or swedish åkesson. they all say ‘freedom of speech’, but they actually mean ‘only my view is valid’. they say ‘prosperity’, but they actually mean ‘more tax money for friends and big companies’. they say ‘justice’, but they really mean ‘more protection for me, more rights for me and my family, and more privileges for my people’. they say ‘for the people’, but in reality they mean ‘me, myself and i’. their only goal is to maintain power, and for this they are willing to cast out people in margins and to use them as scapegoats. they’re not afraid to undermine elections and democracy as a whole. this is how fascism begins. we’ve seen it before and we know where it leads. we must defend our democracies. we must defend our rule of law. we must defend our civil society. kein fußbreit für den faschismus!
mr. president, bolsonaro was defeated in the elections, but bolsonarism is still very much alive in the institutions and in the streets, as we could see recently with the trumpist assault, because the reactionary international shares an agenda, a discourse and also ways of acting. on the right there are those who believe that the institutions belong to them and that democracy is a hindrance to their interests. the intellectual and financial backers must also be brought to justice. but beyond the courts, the best way to fight bolsonarism is by dismantling its political legacy. we in europe can give our support and a good way to do so from this parliament is to refuse to sign a trade agreement like the mercosur negotiated by bolsonaro, breaking with his legacy. brazil needs an agenda that expands rights, that shares wealth, that builds popular democracy and that fights the climate emergency.
madam president, the symbolic and actual attacks on the three powers of brazil were an event that can only be condemned by us, as they are by the majority of the brazilian population. but these events are not just a problem of brazil, they are a problem of clarity and a problem of choice. a problem of clarity, because we need to demystify who is behind these attacks and how the international far right is organized to attack democracies around the world. and it's a choice problem, because you have to know how to choose who you want to hang out with and who you want to shake hands with. on this side, as on the other side of the atlantic, we will continue our work to reject any attempt by the far right to attack our democracy and to ensure that democratic systems and institutions continue to function. it is with this effort that we continue to work, here, as with lula in brazil.
madam president, madam commissioner, the attack on the three powers of brazil on 8 january deserves our full condemnation and demands the utmost solidarity with the new authorities who have emerged from the ballot box. it is the second attempt by a worldwide, reactionary and violent movement to impose itself on the democratic will of the citizens. trump supporters already tried to storm the capitol. the third option is to combat polarization and extremism, to strengthen pluralism, to believe that diversity is a richness and to modernise the mechanisms of participation so that the vast majority feel involved and represented in our democracies. it's not enough to denounce the algorithms that poison social networks. the path taken with initiatives like the conference on the future of europe, improved and practiced in a structural way, active and productive listening, the mobilization of knowledge and, of course, equity and social justice are the best antidote against this plague; a disease that spreads best in places where there are too many people with nothing to lose.
madam president, the far right has a fanatical and violent agenda. and the recent attacks on representative institutions of the rule of law, both in the united states and in brazil, are a clear example of this political savagery. but this fanatical and violent script lives and feeds mainly on misinformation, unrealism and denialism. and the goal is clear: to reject democratic elections when they are losing, to undermine civil society's trust in institutions by portraying themselves as the saviors of the homeland, and to circumvent the principles of freedom of the press when questioned and criticized. but, on the other hand, the solution has to come from the progressive camp. and if there is a lesson to be learned from these recent barbaric acts, as former presidential candidate ciro gomes has pointed out, it is that the pacification of society will only come from a profound restructuring of the economic and social model. and this change will have to take place in the very face of democratic institutions and extend to the political debate of ideas and proposals.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we gather here in a parliament, in the house of democracy, where we resolve our problems and our differences not by force or arms but by voting. that's how we do things in a democracy. a few months ago, i was visiting the ukrainian parliament in kiev, ukraine. it was surrounded by guard posts, by sandbags to defend this parliament against an external threat - a russia which does not accept the democratic decisions of ukraine but wants to change those decisions by force. the same movement we saw attacking the us congress, where right-wing forces, far-right forces, do not accept democratic decisions but want to change them by force. we saw the same thing in brazil. i am afraid that we will see further examples, also here in europe, of the far right wanting to change democratic decisions by force, and we cannot accept that.
madam president, the coup d'état actions carried out by the most reactionary and fascist forces in brazil, in a process which has been led by bolsonaro and which undermine the democracy of brazil, deserve our firm and vehement condemnation. the main objective of this assault on brazil's federal institutions, promoted by the big economic interests, some military sectors and important media, was to disregard the will of the brazilian people, expressed in the ballot box, creating the conditions that would serve as a pretext for a coup attempt and the imposition of a fascist-style power. it is essential for the defence of democracy in brazil that the brazilian authorities thoroughly ascertain the facts and that those responsible for instigating, promoting and directly participating in the coup and reactionary actions be condemned and punished. we therefore reaffirm our solidarity with lula da silva and all the democratic and progressive forces in brazil who are engaged in the struggle for a more just, democratic, developed and sovereign brazil, which will fulfil the aspirations of the brazilian people.
madam president, commissioner, the arrest and conviction of journalists on charges which, according to respected human rights organisations, are at least very dubious, has been used by the moroccan authorities as a form of pressure and intimidation. such actions are unacceptable to this parliament and to the european union. the european union has a special relationship with morocco and it is obliged to put an end to these and all activities that violate freedom of the press, freedom of expression and human rights in general. we therefore call on the moroccan authorities to release the detained journalists immediately in a process of regularizing the democratic functioning that the moroccan people deserve. finally, i should like to mention the alleged corruption in morocco: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the socialist and democratic group will be in the forefront of demanding sanctions against all those who have sought to subvert european democracy.
mr president, mr president, commissioner, the global gateway initiative opens up opportunities which europe must seize. it is an opportunity to turn development aid into a real 'investment for development'. this means investing in key sectors of the future that will enable us to accelerate the inclusive digital and climate transition, raise the level of education and innovation, expand excellence in transport or health, in the acceding countries but also at the global level. it is an opportunity to strengthen and explore new forms of financing in the european union. the budget of the european union, of the member states, of the private sector, acting together, can give us more options to finance political priorities, such as the new european industrial policy we have talked about so much, which is crucial for the strategic autonomy of the european union. it is an opportunity to strengthen the presence of european companies in markets outside the european union, boosting their growth on a global scale, based on local partnerships that enable them to mobilise local entrepreneurs, develop new markets, for the good of economies and the good of citizens. it is an opportunity to generate greater trust and confidence in our partners, leading to more sustainable, stable and long-term investments. the global gateway is thus an opportunity for us to share political, social, environmental priorities, values such as democracy, transparency, accountability, social rights. but we're not the only ones. we have competitors like china, the united states or the united kingdom. finally, the global gateway needs ambition to move from 'opportunity' to 'achievement' and 'results'.
mr president, madam minister, mr commissioner, on the economic item on the european council's agenda: the creation of a sovereign fund is one of the pillars of the new industrial plan for the green deal. it will have to fulfil two objectives: first, to support the strategic autonomy of the european union and a european green industrial policy; second, to ensure that the new state aid rules ensure a 'level playing field' in the functioning of the internal market, avoiding its fragmentation, as is the case with the recent suspension of these rules. and all this in compliance with the rules of the world trade organization. we need a new fund, as we did with the creation of nextgenerationeu or sure. mobilizing theoretically available funds is not enough. yes, the european union must strengthen its economic, industrial and technological base, it must strengthen the skills of its people, it must deepen its trade agenda.
in writing. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the february european council will discuss how we can have serious, supportive and responsible policies in the european union on migration and asylum seekers in a sustained and sustainable way. on this subject, increasingly loudly and brazenly, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the return of the apology for the walls, which we considered, if not outdated, at least dormant. i would just like to make the following point: we cannot allow the building of fences and walls to be the central focus of the european union's asylum and migration policy. humanism and respect for human rights must be at the heart of our policies. migrants and refugees are no less human than any of us.
madam president, commissioner, the problems with political campaigns have always existed, but the digital age has brought new problems that require new solutions. first, it allows lies and false promises to be more easily hidden from scrutiny. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's external borders. this repository is particularly important for scrutiny and investigation by journalists, academics and authorities. second, the online age allows us to tailor the lies to who will hear and read them, thanks to the access to personal data that we all leave behind when we surf online. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. there are two other aspects i would like to highlight. to prevent the manipulation of our elections by agents outside the union, we have introduced a ban on political campaign sponsorship by anyone who is not a citizen or resident of the union. we also do not want this regulation to have an impact on any fundamental rights, in particular on freedom of expression and political freedoms. our group therefore demanded that the rules apply only to advertising as such, to advertising as a paid service and not to the normal communications of any citizen. trust in elections and political processes is one of the essential pillars of a democratic regime. with the report we have approved in the committee on the internal market, and which i hope will be adopted tomorrow with its ambition intact, we will be making a strong contribution to strengthening and updating our democracy.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the list of third countries with a high risk of money laundering has been a list marked by many criteria of what can be sympathetically called political diplomacy. however, there is a big elephant in the room which is the responsibilities of the european union and the commission in relation to what happens within the european union. and what successive scandals have shown, the luanda leaks, the pandora papers and many others, is that the great risk of money laundering on european soil is right inside the european union. and in this respect the commission and the council have lacked the courage to hold those countries accountable which continue to be easy channels for money laundering within the european union. the list of high-risk third countries is designed to free us, not the european union, from responsibility for what it has failed to do in relation to its own member states and jurisdictions. if there is a high-risk jurisdiction for money laundering it is the european union itself, so let us look inside.
madam president, after the collapse of the withdrawal from afghanistan, we are getting nothing but absolutely disturbing news from that country. last december, women's access to education was permanently barred. the exclusion of women from universities and the ban on afghan girls attending school are flagrant violations of the right to education. the ban on women's participation in work has hit humanitarian aid in a terrible way in a country where international and non-governmental support is essential for the survival of men, women and children. but it is not enough to be here to diagnose the situation, we must be active and join forces with the united nations to ensure that humanitarian aid reaches the population and prevents it from being held hostage by the taliban regime. and we must also move forward with targeted sanctions for the perpetrators of human rights violations. but we cannot forget to give humanitarian visas also to lawyers and to all those who are being persecuted in afghanistan and who need these humanitarian visas.
mr president, the european year of skills aims to empower workers with the necessary skills and to ensure that no one is left behind in the environmental and digital transition. the outermost regions are currently heavily affected by the decline in the labour force, but also by youth migration, and it is therefore urgent to develop and implement comprehensive strategies to attract and retain talent in these regions. this is why it is important to create networks for the development of young talent through policies adapted to regional and local realities, to combat the shortage of labour in certain sectors, to train people for the specific needs of each labour market and to focus on the training of green and blue jobs which are so essential for the economy of these regions. the talent in the european union must be enhanced and the outermost regions have talented people. let 2023 be the year to do it!
mr president, increasingly, work and minimum wages do not guarantee fundamental rights, such as the right to housing. the increase in the cost of living is so burdensome that we now see families who, working, are forced to share their homes or return to their parents' home, or even face homelessness. we cannot accept a social model in which inflation, accompanied by financial speculation in real estate, favoured by benevolent tax regimes, leads workers to have to choose between food and a house to live and sleep in. this view that housing is a profitable investment sector rather than fulfilling its housing function as a social welfare guarantee is a growing mirror of the social inequalities that plague us. the increase in public housing stock is urgent and the state must play its part by guaranteeing the constitutionally enshrined right to housing, regulating the market and protecting people from the effects of the ecb's policy of interest rate hikes.
madam president, council, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, russia's war of aggression against ukraine will go down in history as one of the great crimes committed against international law, a country, a people. contrary to his totalitarian fantasies, putin will be condemned by history and will be remembered in russia itself as someone who led the country into an immoral and unjust war. to this end, the determined support which the european union has been providing to ukraine must not cease. we therefore call for increased humanitarian, economic, macro-financial, political and, of course, military support so that ukraine can defend itself, sustain its economy, reduce the suffering of its people and undertake reforms that bring it closer to the european project. we want europe to remain united, without divisions between countries, without wars between protagonists, alongside zelensky and his people. that's all we want. sooner rather than later, let us build the road to peace.
madam president, i would first of all like to express my condolences to the turkish and syrian peoples and my appreciation for the excellent work being done by all those who are currently providing humanitarian aid on the ground. in my country, we say that a disaster never comes alone, and in the martyred northwest of syria, this earthquake added to the devastation of 12 years of war that has left an endless trail of death, destruction and extreme poverty. it is precisely there, where 90 percent of the population is in need of humanitarian aid, that international support is lacking the most. it is important to re-establish the two humanitarian corridors in syria and to extend bab al-hawa to transport survivors. but this is not enough and this is not the problem. the problem is the political will and the ability to intervene quickly, to mobilize the help that is needed. humanitarian aid cannot be held hostage by warlords. we cannot abandon those who find themselves in particularly vulnerable conditions in syria, whether they are kurds, internally displaced persons or palestinian refugees. it's a question of humanity.
madam president, repowereu is just another example of a european proposal that says it will do one thing and actually does another. it has served to divert funds from the recovery and resilience fund to objectives opposite to those that comprised the recovery and resilience fund and, coupled with the laundering of nuclear energy and natural gas, now sold as green energy, will serve to end the little environmental decency that still existed in the use of these crisis response funds. meanwhile, the profits of the fossil fuel industry have reached astronomical levels, borne by the people and now by community funds. they grow in proportion to the hypocrisy of the commission's promises and commitments on a green and just energy transition. who do you think you're fooling? the citizens? they cheat less and less. and that planet, it's not exactly a trick.
madam president, commissioner, the russian invasion of ukraine requires support for ukraine, but it also requires measures to limit the economic and social consequences of the war in the european union. of course, we need to tackle energy poverty. they're two sides of the same coin. repowereu is the union's answer to energy for citizens and businesses. it must be a key instrument for building european energy autonomy and promoting and consolidating the internal energy market by supporting coordinated planning and financing of cross-border infrastructure and projects, supporting projects and reforms in energy markets, and removing fossil fuels and replacing them with renewable and green energy. to transform, to empower, we need european investment alongside other european policies, without seconding them or stifling them by reducing their funding, such as cohesion policy. i would like to thank my colleagues eider gardiazabal rubial, siegfried mureşan and dragoş pîslaru for their work.
madam president, last thursday i was invited to take part in the annual congress of france grandes cultures in provins, in the midst of the beet sector crisis. the outright ban on the use of neonicotinoids for beet seed coating has the consequence of the outright and total ban on this indispensable pesticide. all the professionals i have met agree that the risk of the whole beet sector collapsing in france is real. if you prohibit the use of certain plant protection products in our country, why do you allow imports from countries that use them? why, when we are talking about the importance of self-sufficiency and agricultural independence, are you killing french agriculture with directives and decrees? your stigmatization of our farmers is unbearable, just as your submission to the globalist model is destructive. for us, our farmers are the beating heart of our countryside, the pillars of the nation and the guarantors of high-quality products in the plates of the french people, as well as in those of consumers who are fortunate enough to be able to consume french products in all corners of the world.
madam president, the coup d'état that led to the ousting of president pedro castillo in peru at the beginning of december has since provoked protests in that country. the peruvian people took to the streets and went to lima to demand the resignation of dina boluarte, the call for early elections and the convening of a constituent assembly. the demonstrations have continued for more than two months, despite police and military repression which has already caused dozens of deaths and hundreds of injuries, as well as the persecution of political, trade union and social leaders. the brutal repression of popular demonstrations in defence of freedom and democracy can only be condemned and repudiated. in peru, there is a growing awareness of the rights that are not enjoyed, that the country's natural resources are only for the benefit of the big economic groups and that the neoliberal constitution of 1993 needs to be changed. we reaffirm our solidarity with the workers and the people of peru, the communists and other progressive and democratic forces who are fighting for respect for the will of the people and for the full restoration of democratic rights and legality.
the transport sector accounts for 25% of total carbon emissions in europe and cars and vans, together with heavy duty vehicles, are responsible for over 70% of these emissions. the link between the environment and our health is also all too obvious: a quarter of deaths worldwide are caused by environmental problems, 10% of cancers in europe are caused by air pollution, and for every degree of increase in average temperature, there is a 2% increased risk for cardiovascular accidents. there is no time to lose, no time for half measures, as the right wing in this house would have you believe. the european union must act now. over the last year and a half, this parliament has worked tirelessly to produce a climate legislative package that is fair, ambitious and forward-looking. it is therefore extremely gratifying that we have agreed to make the european union a cleaner place by stipulating that from 2035 only zero-emission cars can be sold. this measure will facilitate market developments in increasing the supply of sustainable options, reducing prices, technological development and the rapid creation of a second and third hand market. a change at this level will impact workers and small and mediumsized enterprises. so we need mechanisms that monitor the situation and allow for appropriate and timely responses to the challenges that arise, ensuring that this is a just transition that leaves no one behind. ladies and gentlemen, these have been difficult negotiations, as you have already seen from these speeches, but the industry has also given us a signal that it is ready. it is time for the european union to take responsibility for its emissions and to take global leadership in the fight against climate change. from 2035, all new cars in the european union will be zero-emission, a move that should set an example for the whole world. and this is legislation that is compliant with the paris agreement and the climate act and has unparalleled positive repercussions for our planet and everyone who lives on it. a final word of thanks to jan and the whole negotiating team for reaching this agreement, to the commission, to the council and, on my part, a special thank you to juliana and eliana.
blue-card speech. – i would like to ask the colleague if you have gone through the proposal, because what we negotiated, and before you state that you voted against, is tailpipe zero emissions by 2035. this provides technological neutrality at tailpipe and provides the chance not only to have zero-emission vehicles that are electric, but with other technologies that can arise.
blue-card speech. – i would like some clarification because i fail to understand your political group's perspective when it comes to cancer action. and in this regard, we have that 10% of cancers are caused by air pollution. we also have that these emissions, co2 emissions are one of the main causes for air pollution. here we’re talking about technology neutrality at the tailpipe. so reducing those emissions, these will have important gains for the environment and health. so i fail to understand how your political group is on the forefront of cancer action, but then is against this proposal that will have immediate impact for the health of eu citizens. so i would like a clarification on this.
madam president, violence against women is a persistent plague for which we have no vaccine yet. it is estimated that in the european union, one in three women has been a victim of some form of physical or sexual violence since the age of 15, affecting not only her mental and physical health but also the health of those close to her, such as her children. the accession of the european union to the istanbul convention would provide a systematic and eu-wide approach to combating such violence. it may not solve everything, but it will be one more step to solving a problem we can't give up. it would, in particular, help to ensure that incidents of domestic violence are taken into account in the determination of the rights of custody and access of children. the istanbul convention is over ten years old and hungarian, czech, bulgarian, slovak, lithuanian and latvian women - those countries that have not yet ratified it - should not wait any longer.
madam president, i must begin by expressing my shock at some of the statements made here today. there is no beauty in violence, humiliation and suffering by anyone, in any form. we cannot normalize gender-based violence. we have to criminalize it in the european union and that will be our next step. but until then, we have the istanbul convention, which presents itself as a fundamental legal tool in combating violence against women and domestic violence. its ratification is therefore an obligation not only for those countries which have not yet done so - being member states of the european union - but also for the european union itself, since cases such as poland, which banned abortion and then immediately announced its withdrawal from the convention, are intolerable. commissioner, we must leave here with clear political signals. the progress that the majority wants cannot in any way be held back by the inertia and carelessness of a few. we owe it to all the victims.
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for bringing this matter up. this is a subject which must be on the permanent european political agenda, because violence against women is also a permanent feature of many women's lives. i thank commissioner dalli for her report. i am sure that you will always have the support of this parliament. we are talking about a convention adopted in 2011. ratification by the european union has been the subject of action plans by commission after commission. it is part of the 2020-2025 priorities for gender equality. we have the opinion of the court of justice: women's rights are human rights. the defence and promotion of human rights is a task for everyone, in all its dimensions. the european union cannot postpone its accession to the istanbul convention and continue to be held hostage to the positions of member states, which are unacceptable in the european union.
mr. chairman, the istanbul convention does not solve the problems of violence against women. violence against women is a crime and must be prosecuted under national laws. but the istanbul convention, which you are so persistent in pushing here, actually has other goals. it covers up propaganda and politics that are against women's interests. for example, she supports an ideology that would allow biological men to compete in women's sports, would allow biological men to enter women's locker rooms. and that, to me, is violence against women and violence against women. the istanbul convention is a propaganda tool of lgbt and gender politics. for this reason bulgaria did not accept it. for this reason, we, with our constitution, believe that this document is contrary to our family values, contrary to the foundations of our society, contrary to the way we have arranged the way we live. and yes, violence against women is a serious problem and a crime that must be punished, but it continues and is strong even in countries that have ratified it, which shows how meaningless this document is.
mr president, violence against women remains an undeniable scourge. complaints of dating violence are on the rise. women continue to be victims of physical or psychological assault and many end up tragically dying at the hands of their partners. there are still girls and women who are victims of sexual exploitation and prostitution. there is still harassment and violence at work. if we look at access to sexual and reproductive rights, we see that even if they are enshrined, there are many difficulties to make it a reality in women's lives, violating them and violating their rights. concrete measures are needed, starting with prevention, including more effective protection against violence, giving value to work and wages, investing in human and material resources in the various public services, guaranteeing the right to housing, more and better rights in health, social security and education, justice and security forces. we need a serious commitment by member states to end all forms of violence against women, in law and in life. there can be no more excuses.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, we meet at a crucial time for gender equality. as we approach the 67th annual session of the commission on the status of women, we witness a worldwide backlash against women’s and girls’ full, equal enjoyment of human rights. across the world, from the streets of tehran to the university campus in kabul, women and girls are standing up for human rights and gender equality, often against all odds. the eu continues to stand by them in their struggle. we are their allies. the priority theme of this year’s session of the commission on the status of women reminds us that in an age marked by technological innovation and digitalisation, we have to continue the work achieving gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls. we know that the potential of digitalisation, including the education and innovation, is not equally distributed. as a matter of fact, the digital gender gap is especially pronounced in many developing countries. the council continues to actively address gender equality and women’s rights across different policy areas. for instance, there are numerous eu programmes and initiatives that aim to boost the share of women graduates in science, technology, engineering and mathematics to combat gender stereotypes. the eu’s ambition is to stay a frontrunner on gender equality and women’s empowerment globally. moreover, promoting gender equality is a central issue in sweden, regardless of the government in charge. while not perfect, we have achieved a high level of equality between men and women and during our presidency, gender equality is, of course, an area of focus. the council is aware that the pursuit of gender equality and technological innovation and education are mutually reinforcing. in this context, the council has identified five core principles ahead of the forthcoming session of the commission on the status of women. first, to accelerate the implementation of existing international commitments that strengthen the regulatory frameworks. second, to take measures addressing all aspects of gender, digital and technology divide. third, to leverage current and emerging technologies to accelerate gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls – with a particular focus on women and girls in vulnerable and marginalised situations. fourth, to support a strong multilateral system and to give support to the civil society and human rights defenders. fifth, to strengthen the availability and the funding to reliable data and research to promote legislation. i can assure you that the eu will take part in the 67th session of the commission on the status of women with a high level of ambition and will engage with all stakeholders in an open and constructive spirit. our ultimate goal is the adoption of a consensual and action-orientated text.
member of the commission. – mr president, the yearly meeting of the commission on the advance on the status of women is an opportunity to reflect on the key global challenges for gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls, and how we as a european union contribute and progress on these issues this year. this year's w addresses one of the main challenges of our times: how to ensure that the digital transition, innovation and science, technology, engineering and mathematics – the stem sectors – are an opportunity for all and that obstacles or abuses are tackled in particular from a gender perspective. this is in line with the eu's priorities and objective of the twin transition. the gender equality strategy in particular underlined the importance of gender mainstreaming of the digital transition. i therefore welcome your questions. the gender equality strategy and the third edition of the gender action plan underlined the importance of gender mainstreaming in all policy areas and priorities, including the digital transition, innovation and research and stem area. the european commission's digital strategy, in particular, aims to make the digital transformation work for people and businesses while helping to achieve its target of a climate neutral europe by 2050. the strategy sets a target of 80% of the population having basic digital skills and 20 million ict specialists by 2030. in achieving this target, we need to tackle the gender digital gap as we know that only 19% of ict specialists are women. women working in ict earn almost 20% less than men. one in three stem graduates are women and 93% of capital invested in european companies this year went to all male-founded teams. we promote an increased participation and representation in stem, in particular in engineering, ict and advanced digital skills, all crucial for the development and future of our societies. this is also one of the eight key competencies of the european education area strategic framework. we have also raised the need to attract more women and girls in stem in our structured dialogues on digital education and skills with the member states. we are funding a series of actions to attract girls to stem and to bridge the digital gender gap under our horizon europe and erasmus programmes. examples of projects are training programmes in digital and sustainable entrepreneurship, competencies for girls and the european researchers’ night and researchers at schools which want to gauge the interest of girls and women in research careers. our projects also support women-led deep tech start-ups through a pilot scheme called women techeu. moreover, we introduce a new condition in the horizon europe programme, which has the potential to become a game changer for gender equality in research and innovation. organisations that want to apply for horizon europe must have a gender equality plan in place to be eligible for eu funding. encouraging women's participation in stem also allows us to tackle the digital gap. we have set our concrete actions to this end in our schools agenda and digital education action plan for 2021-2027. we monitored the gender digital divide through the women and digital scoreboard. also to cyber violence, our proposal for a directive to combat violence against women and domestic violence includes a focus on this form of violence. we proposed decriminalisation of common forms of gender-based violence and measures that allow to quickly remove illegal gender-based online content. the specificities of cyber violence, are also reflected and provisions on the protection and support to victims, as well as in prevention measures and access to justice. moreover, in the digital services act, we set out a comprehensive approach towards all forms of illegal content and look at online platforms’ liability. with all these actions, we hope to substantially contribute to making the digital transition an opportunity for all, especially for women and girls.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 11 february we celebrated women and girls in science day and, unfortunately, there was not much to celebrate, because according to unesco, only 35% of students in stem courses are women. we also need to see that access to technology in developing countries is barely 30 percent of female users and in less developed countries, barely 20 percent of women have access to the internet. on the other hand, we are also seeing how the new digital media are the new arena in which violence against women develops. one in ten european women has experienced some form of cyberviolence since the age of 15 and 20% of european women have been victims of cyberbullying. that is why we need to remove all existing barriers so that girls can fully engage in science. science needs women, and women need science to design a new future, a future of equality.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, commissioner, minister, in a few weeks, we as the european parliament go to the 67th un commission on the status of women (csw), i.e. the cop for gender equality, the most important event to fight for women’s rights, with representatives from 189 countries. we will meet stakeholders and advocates from all over the world to prove that we as the eu are a reliable partner on empowering women and girls in all their diversity, and support progressive alliances and policies. we as the european parliament must be loud and clear against the worldwide backlash that was already mentioned, for example, on srh or on gender—based violence. we have to stand up clearly for peace and security, fight against inequalities and against the feminisation of poverty. to ensure that the eu shows strong leadership on these issues at the csw and takes a unified position, the delegation of the european parliament has to increase its formal role during the negotiations and ensure its full involvement in the decision-making process as well as adequate information. as i was already part of the delegation many, many times, i can fully support the words of robert biedroń on the involvement of the european parliament in the process. we have been fighting for this for years now and i think the strong resolution we vote on this week underlines our deep commitment. this year’s focus lies on the digital gender gap that was already said: innovation and technological change. girls worldwide face massive gender specific barriers in access to education, as well as a huge gender digital divide. so we have to strengthen our fight for a gender—responsive digital transformation at the csw, especially equal access for women and girls to the stem (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) sector and fight against cyber violence. only through education and inclusion, social inclusion and inclusion in decision-making will gender equality and empowerment of all women and girls be achieved.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, once again this year the committee on the status of women has closed its eyes to the reality of women and is acting like a pawn in its own agenda. last year: climate change and gender equality. this year: digitization and gender equality. next up: achievements in gender equality. there is a continuing effort to promote gender ideology. meanwhile, there are women in the world who still do not have recognized dignity as persons and are forbidden to occupy their space in public life. it's happening today in iran. women get killed for showing a lock of hair. this does not seem to interest the un commission on the status of women, or at least it is not its priority. it is, however, to treat everything from a gender perspective, when this approach to any subject distorts the objective sense. many 'women who want' already play an indispensable role in the field of science, technology and innovation. let us guarantee equal opportunities, ensuring the right to a quality education that allows our children to choose their path.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the living conditions of many women remain difficult. they are the ones who, on average, work longer hours, whether in professional tasks or in household tasks. we know that working women are faced with a difficult balance between the demands of their jobs, the care of their children and the organization of their domestic life. we are concerned that telecommuting, rather than helping, may add to the daily burden. in order to achieve real equality between men and women, policies are needed to put an end to the precarious position of women in the workforce, because it is women who have the most precarious relationships and who are mostly low paid, as well as excessive and unregulated work hours that deprive them of the right to family and personal life and leisure. it is also women who are most at risk of poverty. the 67th session of the united nations commission on the status of women is an opportunity to demand, once again, policies that represent advances in women's living conditions and rights, ensuring the right to work with rights, the appreciation of wages and the strengthening of public services, breaking with solutions that exacerbate exploitation, inequalities, discrimination and violence against women and that the policies are effectively implemented. if digitisation, innovation and technology contribute to these advances in the lives of all women, so much the better. for our part, we will not give up and we will continue to fight for the realization of women's rights in law and in life.
mr president, madam minister, madam commissioner, at the end of january, in the second round of the tunisian legislative elections, 90% of the electorate did not vote. a record abstention in the country that, 12 years ago, was the birthplace of the arab spring. but what may seem like a paradox actually has an explanation: tunisians no longer believe in their country. the dissolution of the government and parliament by the president under the pretext of fighting corruption, and the holding of a referendum that changed the constitution to concentrate power in the president, plunged the country into a deep political crisis. political parties have lost their strength. civil society is not heard. tunisians say the new parliament lacks independence and legitimacy. there is no freedom of speech. the political crisis is accompanied by a progressively declining economy and rising inflation. the european union is tunisia's main trading partner. this country is a major beneficiary of the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument, the european instrument for democracy and human rights, the erasmus+ programme and macro-financial assistance operations. tunisia is too important a player in the mediterranean region. the people of tunisia and civil society must have the support of the european union to ensure democratic life and the rule of law in this country.
mr president, it is 12 years since the jasmine revolution ended. the strength of the people made tunisia, in that period, a symbol of hope for all of us. however, a year and a half later, the disappointment is clear. the political maneuvers of president saïed, by arrogating to himself full powers and dismissing parliament, put an end to the tunisian dream. popular dissatisfaction was clearly reflected in the turnout in the last parliamentary elections, boycotted by a good margin of the political parties. only 11% of the electorate voted. there is no doubt about the discouragement of the tunisians. the lack of respect for democratic values and the absence of a sense of state have added to the country's economic weakness and have definitively put its future in doubt. the future, once predicted to be auspicious, is becoming more and more distant. so we have to ask you very clearly, commissioner, how the european union intends to position itself in relation to the future of the country, making it quite clear that any support from the european union is conditional. and that these conditions are respect for democratic values and respect for human rights.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, one year of the brutal russian war of aggression against ukraine. it resulted in the death of thousands and thousands of innocent lives. the destruction of a country. millions of refugees. increased insecurity and suffering for europe and the world. the eu stood by ukraine for all of this time. we will continue to support them for as long as it takes. ukrainians can count on our political, diplomatic, humanitarian, financial and military support. putin from his side, can count with our strong, resolute and increased sanctions, as was just proposed today, – for which we are thankful – to drain his power. now, our unity in the support of the ukrainians has proven to be one of the biggest strengths against the russian aggressor. that is why it is so concerning for this parliament. i would say, i would hope for, this parliament as a whole, but unfortunately not, that some in the ranks of the epp are now trying to put things the other way around. it was appalling to hear mr berlusconi excusing putin from his responsibilities and blaming ukraine for this war. we have seen, yes, it was. i thank you for your applause, mr weber, it's important that you do so. but let me be clear also on this: you just said we defend the european way of life for the ukrainians, good, but what concrete actions will you take regarding mr berlusconi, regarding his party, mr weber? what concrete actions will you take? you have defended here with all of us sanctions regarding those that have supported putin in this war. what kind of sanctions will start in your own political family regarding mr berlusconi so that we stand united, we remain united against the putin aggression?
the green deal industrial plan, presented by the european commission, aims to achieve a rapid transition to climate neutrality for industry. this plan aims to meet the eu's climate objectives, namely climate neutrality by 2050, by encouraging european production capacity for net-zero emissions technologies and products. the ambitious agenda is based on four pillars: a predictable and simplified regulatory framework, accelerated access to finance, improved skills and open trade to enable resilient supply chains. all industrial revolutions brought important social transformations, with protection for workers and help in adapting traditional sectors to new realities, leaving no one behind. the business sector, particularly in portugal, is made up mainly of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. as a consequence, the implementation of the pact must pay particular attention to the fragility of the business fabric and how it will adapt to the effects, without forgetting the outermost regions, whose realities pose increased challenges and require increased attention from the institutions. the future is green and social, we cannot miss this opportunity to align all sectors with a new zero impact era.
madam president, this debate cannot allow us to be caught up in naivete or laxity. the authoritarian drift of mitsotakis and his implication in the use of the predator against nikos androulakis and other political opponents, journalists and military officers is absolutely clear. greece's abrupt drop from 38th place in the reporters without borders press freedom ranking is one of the reflections of the country's decline in press freedom and the rule of law. to all this we must add corruption and a series of reforms that have achieved the independence of the judiciary, media pluralism, and the space of civil society. it's a pitiful and absolutely dangerous path. and now, commissioner, in the face of all this, my question is: will the commission continue to be entangled in an exchange of letters or will it invoke article 7? when are we going to trigger article 7? that is the big question, commissioner.
madam president, i would like to make two points at the end of this debate and we hope that this road map will indeed be a road map that will lead us to a political decision. and the two points i would like to make are the following: firstly, the recent experiences in the field of migration policy, immigration, refugee policy after the war in ukraine are the lessons we have to learn and are important lessons which should be decisive in the future immigration policy of the european union. the second point concerns non-use, and our position is very clear: european money, the budget of the european union, must be used to promote european values and not against european values. that is why we reject completely the use of european money, of the european budget, for the construction of walls.
the first appeal of this report is the need for greater and real coordination between monetary and budgetary policy. this coordination was crucial in the covid-19 crisis. in the current crisis, there is a lack of coordination. as the european commission pointed out this week, the effects of the ecb's policy of raising interest rates are already visible. financing costs are rising rapidly for households, businesses and member states. credit is being slashed, first for households and more recently for businesses. the number of households whose income has been reduced and who are no longer able to pay their mortgages is worrying, with unforeseeable implications. inflation has fallen slightly, but mainly as a result of lower energy prices. we need coordinated and balanced responses to combat inflation, but we also need coordinated responses to support growth, jobs and strategic investment. and this brings me to a second appeal in this report, that the ecb should also be more active in fulfilling its secondary mandate and supporting the union's general policies, in line with the treaties. this is an urgent need, of course, in the fight against climate change. in the report, we also highlight the urgency of completing the banking union with a european deposit insurance; assessing the impact and effectiveness of recent interest rate hikes; analysing and taking action on excessive profits in banking; the importance of the european pillar of social rights and smes; the need to move forward on the digital euro and monitor cryptocurrencies; and promoting gender equality at the ecb. president lagarde and i conclude , we are aware of the unprecedented challenges that the current inflationary crisis poses to monetary policy. to tackle it we need an independent ecb, but we also need an ecb that is more predictable in its decisions and more cooperative with the other european institutions and the member states.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the european central bank is currently pursuing a monetary policy which is contradictory to its own analyses. it was the european central bank that characterized the inflation we are experiencing as being mainly due to energy prices, food prices and economic bottlenecks resulting from the recovery from the post-pandemic crisis. all of these factors are not very sensitive to traditional monetary policy measures. and it is no coincidence that after several increases in interest rates, the main effect of reducing inflation that we are seeing is coming from energy prices. in fact, by showing what the right policy would be: to limit the absolutely extraordinary and opportunistic profits of the energy companies and other companies that are profiting from the crisis, protecting the economy and protecting the people. what we're seeing is a real loss of wages, while profits are soaring. an analysis that, by the way, the european central bank also did when it showed that profits are making a record contribution to the inflation we're seeing. however, when the ecb warns of the dangers of spiralling inflation, it is only about wages, about wages that are losing value and never about profits that are soaring, which shows that the ecb is a much more political institution than it wants us to believe. the independence of the ecb is this: it is the right to throw the european economy into recession in the name of an ineffective monetary policy for which no one will be held accountable.
madam president, controlling inflation is an economic emergency and it is a social emergency. 8.5% is a high figure, but 14% in food is worrying and the increase in interest on housing loans only increases apprehension. the poorest are the hardest hit by inflation, and some governments are slow to respond. we are going for the sixth consecutive rise in the european central bank's interest rates. it is a decision that governors can make, and i ask: what about national governments? in portugal, which has inflation below the european average, the purchasing power of the portuguese is now at 2018 levels. without proper implementation of european funds, without active employment policies and without a strategy for investment and exports, we will not be able to control inflation. and worse, we will not give the new direction that our economies need.
in equatorial guinea, attacks on fundamental freedoms are targeting oppositionists and activists who are being kidnapped, held captive, tortured and murdered by the obiang dictatorial regime, which has been in power since 1979. julio obama mefuman was arrested in 2019 and died in one of the prisons in equatorial guinea. he was one of over 500 political prisoners in this country. he also had spanish nationality and died at the hands of the political power of a country that has been a member of the community of portuguese-speaking countries since 2014, without fulfilling the commitments made to reform. to the shame and indignation of all those who love democracy and speak portuguese like me. we cannot turn a blind eye to the oppression, the perpetuation of human rights violations and the death penalty in equatorial guinea. we demand the repatriation of the body of julio obama and the immediate release of all political prisoners, and that the european union act to protect its citizens against the actions of equatorial guinea, which are violators of human rights.
mr president, mrs gregorová has just touched on the crux of the whole debate. this is, by the way, the sixth resolution we've been discussing here since 2020. and what happens? lukashenko continues to oppress his people and allies himself with putin in the war in ukraine. we continue to call for sanctions, more sanctions. what does the commission do? what does the council do? we cannot wait any longer and we are indeed continuing to be involved and committed to the only path that seems right to us: more sanctions on putin and his puppet lukashenko, but also holding them accountable for the human rights violations and crimes against humanity that they have jointly committed. violence against the belarusian and ukrainian peoples cannot go unpunished. and once again, let us raise our voices today in support of the journalist andrzej poczobut, sentenced to eight years in prison, and the nobel prize winner ales bialiatski, who is going down the same path and whose sentence we await, but also all the more than 1 400 political prisoners in belarus. i am reminded here of the case of palina panasiuk and other women detained in the newly established gulags in belarus. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, fertilisers are essential to ensure sufficient agricultural production and to ensure our food security. the increase in their cost, due to war and speculation, puts european farmers in a critical situation, which requires finding short- and medium-term solutions. in the short term, the absurd 'farm-to-table' target of reducing fertiliser use by 20% by 2030 must be abandoned. the urgent need is to provide financial support to farmers to enable them to cope with the exponential rise in the cost of fertilisers. this requires the use of the crisis reserve, the release of state aid and the search for other sources of european funding outside the cap. the temporary suspension of import duties for all mineral fertilisers except those of russian or belarusian origin should also be extended. in the medium term, states should be encouraged to modify their national strategic plans to promote the use of organic fertilisers such as slurry, digestate, manure and sewage sludge. the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework should also be used to strengthen the cap budget. finally, and above all, we must develop a strong european fertiliser industry. these solutions are within our reach, but they require strong political will to be implemented.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. fellow workers! it should be recalled at the outset that the fertiliser crisis was caused by gazprom's deliberate policy on the gas market and was later exacerbated by russia's aggression against ukraine. despite the sharp increase in the prices of agricultural and other fertilisers, and the doubling or tripling of production costs, european farmers have once again risen to the challenge of ensuring food security for us europeans. but with fertiliser prices remaining at very high levels, it is necessary to launch further financial support for farmers. the commissioner has already said that this has happened in some countries, including my own, poland. but i think what is needed now is to - at least partially - dismantle the crisis reserve and support european farmers. in addition, other activities are needed and should be carried out simultaneously. first, financial incentives for farmers to innovate, to optimise fertiliser use, so-called precision farming, and to support alternative solutions in the form of organic fertilisers. on the other hand, there is no doubt that we should support the eu fertiliser industry, because it has the potential to meet the fertiliser needs of all farmers. therefore, there is a need for anti-dumping protection as there is no doubt that the prices of fertilisers imported from certain countries are dumped and support for this industry as it has huge potential and is able to supply the appropriate quantity of artificial fertilisers. as this resolution was drawn up by mr linz, the rapporteur, and the co-rapporteurs, and as it fulfils in principle all the requirements i have mentioned, we, as the ecr group, will support it.
mr president, commissioner, today we are again witnessing the narrow and frightening short-term vision of many agricultural spokesmen in this parliament. it is sad that there is no awareness that without healthy soil we cannot grow food and that manure and too much animal manure are the death knell for that same healthy soil. does the commission see that subsidising fertilisers and companies like yara is destroying the soil and undermining climate objectives? i would like to hear from the commissioner whether the long-awaited soil health act will be in place before the summer and whether the commissioner is keeping a finger on the pulse of the dutch implementation of the nitrate directive. can the commissioner also confirm that the objective of the farmer-to-table strategy to halve nutrient losses is being rapidly transposed into legislation? a farmer told me the other day that farming is nothing more and nothing less than enabling the interaction between sun, plant and soil and guiding it to a higher level of fertility. but nearly three quarters of our soils are in poor condition. by making fundamentally different choices, we can still turn the tide. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said here, and we all know it, that fertilisers have increased by between 230 and 250% over the last few years compared to 2019. the situation differs from one member state to another. for example, fertilisers which cost between 200 and 300 euros per tonne in my country, portugal, have now cost between 600 and 900 euros. but what about farmers in the so-called crossborder countries in that border area? there have been cases of farmers sowing without the addition of soil fertiliser last year, which resulted in very high yield losses. commissioner, at a time when we are at war, when we are asking for more production, when we are talking about food security and food sovereignty, when we all want green architectures, when we all want to look for better solutions, i ask you - and as the chairman of the committee, norbert lins, has so well said, and as i have said so many times - is it not time to act rather than react? is it not time to stop chasing after the losses, as we say in my country? but this loss is a high financial loss for farmers. and we cannot ask farmers to produce more, because that ultimately fights inflation. this ultimately helps producers, but it also helps consumers. the commission has put forward measures, but they are not enough. for these reasons, it must also look at parliament's proposals. four concluding notes: to facilitate the rules for the use of organic fertilisers as an alternative to mineral fertilisers, but without ever forgetting that a combination of the two is necessary for good agricultural production; extend the temporary suspension of import duties to all mineral fertilisers except those of russian or belarusian origin; draw on the crisis reserve; but to seek alternative sources of financing, outside the common agricultural policy, to develop measures to ensure affordability and availability of fertilisers in the european union. this is the solidarity to which we are all obliged and to which the european commission is also obliged.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must learn from these moments of crisis. and one of the lessons of this crisis is clearly the need to increase the european union's strategic autonomy, also in the area of fertiliser production, one of the production factors - as we have heard here - that is most important and that weighs heavily on the costs of our farmers. strategic autonomy for the european agricultural sector therefore means less dependence on external inputs, with increased fertiliser production in europe and based on the use of renewable energy and the recycling of nutrients. in fact, greater autonomy in fertiliser production should in particular be achieved by a clear commitment to more circular systems from the point of view of nutrient management, which place the promotion of healthy living soil at the heart of agricultural practice. circularity should be promoted, either by reducing nutrient losses and more efficient application systems that reduce the need for fertilisers, or by recovering nutrients from various organic waste streams for reuse in agricultural production. complex problems cannot have simple, one-size-fits-all solutions. we must be able to rethink our production systems and move on several fronts towards more sustainable food systems that are in harmony with the environment and the health of our citizens.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. without livestock farming, without organic fertilisers, neither sustainable nor ecological farming is possible, much less food security. the lithuanian dairy sector is in a deep crisis, one could say on the verge of bankruptcy. the number of cattle per hectare in lithuania is already one of the lowest in the european union. i call on the commission to intervene, because the destruction of livestock farming will make the objectives of reducing the use of mineral fertilisers meaningless. unfortunately, the lithuanian government is only watching and wondering how farmers poured milk into the fields today. finally, i would like to say that we cannot allow the reduction of mineral fertilisers to be a one-size-fits-all target, because this will completely destroy agriculture in countries that already use little fertiliser and receive the lowest direct payments.
mr president, the small farmers in portugal, those who are still resisting, are feeling the consequences of the foreign policy promoted by the european union under the pretext of war and sanctions, making clear the dependence on foreign trade in energy or chemical compounds and also the impositions of a cap that disregards small and medium-sized agriculture, which is based on the promotion of agribusiness, intensive and superintensive agriculture, more dependent on the massive use of water, fertilisers, plant protection products, depleting the soils. this resolution continues to defend everything that has brought us here, from gmos to new technologies, everything that justifies intensive production under the pretext of exploiting its surpluses, its polluting products, to create new markets or to weaken environmental policies. anyway, so that everything stays the same. the profits of the fertilizer companies thank you. we continue to advocate another production model, with policies to reduce the consumption of chemical fertilisers and with supporting alternatives, a model which promotes national production, also of fertilisers, combating external dependence and ensuring the food sovereignty of the peoples.
madam president, we have no doubt about the potential that building renovation in the member states of the european union can have in terms of saving and reducing energy consumption, promoting improved air quality, reducing emissions, reducing costs and increasing the resilience of energy systems. we advocate that priority should be given to the most vulnerable consumers and lower income households in all energy efficiency and building renovation initiatives. this priority should be reflected in the indicative country allocation of the european funds to be allocated to these purposes. what we do not accept is that the necessary renovation of buildings for energy efficiency purposes is another reason for increased speculation in house prices or another pretext for the multinational energy companies to continue to show outrageous profits, while most people cannot keep their homes warm in winter or cool in summer.
mr president, colleagues, i would like to draw your attention to the deteriorating situation along all the borders of our eastern partnership. as a result of russia's unlawful and unprovoked aggression against ukraine, unrest has begun, most likely triggered by the regime in the kremlin, in moldova, in georgia, throughout the caucasus. in the shadow of these events, however, remains the suffering of a people who are currently subjected to terror from two sides. of course, i'm talking about the armenians and the occupation of the lachine corridor, which leads to artsakh, as they call nagorno-karabakh. and here in the european parliament, we talk about human rights all the time, a lot. if we're talking about human rights, there should be a common standard for human rights. and here there must be a very clear voice in defense of one of the most ancient christian nations, namely the armenian. and to urge azerbaijan to immediately end the blockade of the lachine corridor and allow humanitarian aid to be organized with the help of european institutions.
mr president, i have a question for the commission. will it, as has been announced, oppose the courageous and responsible decision of the indian ocean tuna commission to ban floating dcps for 72 days a year, against sustainable fishing and the maintenance of the great ecological balances of the indian ocean, against the small-scale fishermen of réunion? will the commission thereby confirm its submission, in reality, to the lobbies of the spanish and french industrial fleets which, every day, as you know, for decades, without any other faith or law than profit, plunder the indian ocean with the worst methods possible? i am addressing the commission and asking it not to use its veto and i am asking the council not to allow the commission to do so, because this veto would dishonour the european commission and confirm and incite colonial plunder in our waters.
mr president, water remains a resource of limited access for a substantial part of the world's population, especially the poorest and most vulnerable. while water is scarce in one part of the world, in another it is wasted as a result of a water network that is deficient and unable to reverse water losses. we need to work and join forces, already this month, at the united nations water conference. almost 50 years after the last one, it is time to act to safeguard the supply of drinking water and sanitation services, aware that this resource is a basic human need. only then will we achieve sustainable development goal 6. tackling climate change depends on how we tackle and respect this resource that is so essential to our lives, our wellbeing and the environment.
mr president, i’m proud to say that on 8 march the irish government confirmed that a referendum on gender equality will be held in november this year. this announcement follows the recommendations made by the citizens’ assembly on gender equality – an excellent example of participative democracy. the proposals will be to amend the constitution on gender equality, the definition of family and the ‘place of women in the home’. this outdated language on women’s place in our society holds no place today. i strongly welcome a referendum on gender equality in ireland to bring us in line with our european counterparts and to ensure that our constitution reflects the reality of today and the future we aspire to. removing this discriminatory language will prevent the perpetuation of stereotypical attitudes towards the role of women in our society and demonstrate that ireland is taking its role seriously in working towards true equality between men and women.
mr president, i live in a country rich in biodiversity, which is being greedily looked at by the electricity companies. the wind lobby, backed by governments, wants to make galicia, my country, a wind colony. renewable energy, such as wind power, is necessary, but we must take into account its impact: the protected natural reserves, the consultation of the affected populations, the socioeconomic impact, as is the case on the land and sea of galicia. last saturday in corunna, the galician fishing industry denounced offshore wind projects that they intend to install on our coast. there are also many platforms of affected citizens and environmental groups fighting in defense of the land and denouncing: please don't make us an energy colony. mr timmermans, fishing is a priority activity for galicia and this must be reflected in the spanish and european maritime spatial planning plans. that is why we say yes to renewable energy, but with regard to people and their biodiversity. we don't want offshore projects to destroy our maritime wealth. that is why we are in favour of a ban on the establishment of marine energy parks or industrial complexes on the galician coast and in north-western cantabria.
mr president, we have long been denouncing the brutal speculation promoted by the big economic groups, which has flourished in the shadow of the pandemic and has grown immensely under the pretext of war and sanctions: in energy, banking, armaments, large-scale distribution. every day new facts are known more and more profits. the commission, the council and the ecb know that this is so, as recent news confirms. at the same time, workers are losing their wages, their rights, they are faced with a deterioration in their social and economic situation, with unacceptable exploitation by those who make profits from cartels and the imposition of margins of 30%, 40% and 50% on essential goods. in the face of this reality, what will the eu institutions and the governments of the member states do? question the groups of the big economic groups and their greedy thirst for profit? do i propose price controls, particularly on basic foodstuffs? fight against speculation and exploitation? tax the windfall profits of the multinationals? or will they instead continue on the path and the decisions that have brought us here and continue their shameless complicity with the big economic groups?
madam president, this proposal for a regulation on access to and use of data is another step towards the completion of the digital single market. this data market aims to appropriate data of various kinds, favouring the digital giants and using them to boost their profits. it is also not disconnected from the agreement concluded with the united states a year ago for the flow of transatlantic data, which represents potentially 7.1 billion dollars in economic relations. we believe that the necessary guarantee of consent in any communication of personal data must be duly taken into account and that it is the preservation of the interest of the individual, not of the large multinationals, which should guide these initiatives. we oppose a mercantilist logic of personal data, which is contrary to the principle of looking at personal data as an extension of the human personality. the management and use of data should be integrated into a sovereign development vision, aiming at the preservation and safeguarding of data at the national level and which includes both a public and national interest dimension.
madam president, mr president nausėda, let me begin by expressing my appreciation for the courageous and determined way in which lithuania has defended european values in the face of the autocratic regimes, not only of putin and lukashenko, but also, and it is good that it should stick, of xi jinping. it is indeed an example for many other countries in the european union. however, i must say that i was in lithuania exactly one year ago and i witnessed the inhumane conditions to which migrants and asylum seekers from the middle east, asia and africa were subjected after being used by lukashenko as throwing weapons. a year later, many of these people were released and conditions improved, we know that. however, médecins sans frontières had to close its operations due to the restrictions imposed on them and warn that in 2022 there were more than 8000 pushbacks committed by lithuanian border guards, which continue to occur. mr president, violations of human rights, violations of international law cannot be fought with more violations of human rights and more violations of international law. i am sure that they can show the same degree of humanity towards refugees from other countries as they have shown towards refugees from ukraine.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, during the european response to the covid-19 crisis, there were those who held out hope that the european institutions had learned from the disastrous response to the financial crisis. unfortunately, it seems that was unfounded optimism. what we see in this semester process is that we are returning to the same discourse and policies that marked, after a period of countercyclical policies, the response to the financial crisis. it is said that we are now going to introduce social and environmental objectives into the european semester. what you see is everything but this. while some vague statements are being made and without any consequence for the commission's obligations, the commission is already putting pressure on the member states and giving instructions to cut social spending, something which, for example, the portuguese government has already yielded to with the usual obedience. while rejecting a permanent european investment instrument and calling for immediate budgetary consolidation, the european commission is calling for more investment in the energy transition. the demands are contradictory, but the last one is not to be met either.
madam president, the revision of the european semester, the exercise of coordination of economic and social policies, is necessary and urgent. we are talking about european budgetary rules, deficit control, debt management and public investment capacity. after the pandemic, the inflationary pressure and the real war effort in europe, no one would understand a return to 2019, to the past. the key words of this reform must be three: flexibility, simplicity and responsibility. this economic and social coordination must be more flexible, setting more realistic deadlines and requiring more structural measures than temporary ones. of course, this requires time, investment and approaches that respect the national reality of each member state. the european semester must be made simpler so that citizens can better understand and assess the value of the measures and who they are accountable to. and that is why the european semester must promote greater responsibility. the principle of intergenerational solidarity implies greater ambition in debt reduction and that this path should not be taken at the expense of the destruction of public services, especially in health or education. the debate is over and decisions must be taken now. parliament has been consistent on this issue. governments need to find the same consensus.
madam president, madam minister, mr commissioner, in this debate it is worth remembering that we are concerned with the rules of economic governance. we look forward to the commitment today at ecofin and the commitment at the next european council. but above all, we look forward to the commission's legislative initiatives for the revision of the european semester regulation and the stability and growth pact. time is short. we have commitments to europeans: to make the ecological and digital transitions, to implement the european pillar of social rights and the port commitment. none of them will do with austerity policies that we reject. we have learned the lessons of the past and we cannot, as happened with the financial crisis, four years after the crisis started, go from recommending investment - that's what nextgenerationeu is for - to recommending austerity policies. but we're also learning the positive lessons of the recovery and resilience mechanism, or sure. madam minister, commissioner, we must find the necessary convergences that best serve citizens and economies. parliament has been working on this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the surreal polemic of the right against the minimum income is a clear proof that the social pact no longer exists. we in the green group simply want a european directive to raise the minimum income above the poverty line, so that it becomes a tool for genuine social inclusion and not merely for survival. an adequate minimum income must be accompanied by an ambitious system of active policies to deal with the growing poverty, including among the working class. it is not acceptable in europe for governments like the italian one to use disgusting rhetoric to distract citizens, to turn them against each other in order to hide their incompetence and their true intentions. the truth? reducing the number of beneficiaries and the total amount of income has only one objective: forcing the most vulnerable to accept precarious and low-paid jobs. have the courage to say it, though.
mr president, minimum income policies must be temporary, transitional and ensure a minimum level of income which allows those who are most deprived and vulnerable to live with dignity. the introduction of minimum income schemes in all member states of the european union, consisting of specific measures to support people with insufficient income and guaranteeing the right to health, education, housing, among other fundamental rights, together with inclusion measures, aims to ensure an adequate standard of living and promote social integration. but we are not deluded. the most effective way to combat poverty is to tackle its causes. concrete measures are needed to promote public employment policies and to support and promote national productive capacity with a view to creating jobs with rights, valuing work and workers, raising wages, valuing public services and guaranteeing the right to housing.
mr president, dear high representative, the leadership of this group of the socialists and democrats, we just came from the us just before chancellor scholz and the president of the commission landed a few days later there. at our meetings at the white house or at the congress, there was a lot of appraisal about the unity between europe and the us regarding the support of the ukrainians against the russian aggression. but we were also, of course, discussing the elephant in the room, the ira. america is trying, as you just said previously, to go more independent on other economies, including from ourselves, promoting american industries, even the green ones. and we in europe are, at the same time, discussing strategic autonomy and the sovereignty fund. so i would like to ask you, what comes next for this transatlantic partnership? will we lead together the reinvention of the multilateral institutions, mr borrell, so that we can fight globally the health, the financial and the climate challenges? or are we to face a kind of a new cold war with blocs clashing through the world against each other?
i refer to the reform of the multilateral institutions. and we were also in new york at the un with the secretary—general, and there was a sense of hope on the reform of the multilateral institutions. and it was good to hear some sense of hope in such difficult times. and i would like to ask you, do you also believe that we can indeed deliver on the reform of the multilateral institutions, namely the security council, and particularly to give a role, a concrete role, to the global south? latin america and africa are calling for too long for a stronger role in the multilateral institutions, and i saw the secretary—general going in that direction. i would like to have your saying on this.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, this is a significant moment of unity in this chamber, and i want to highlight that after the words of my colleague, mr gahler, because with the aim to free itself from the strings of the judiciary, the government of israel and its coalition are trying to approve legislation that is not acceptable in a democratic country as we know them. it’s certainly not acceptable and not accepted in israel, too, because israeli citizens are taking to the streets week after week on ever bigger mass demonstrations to protect against the judiciary reform already referred previously by michael gahler, claiming, correctly, that it constitutes an assault to the israeli democracy. this reform diminishes the judiciary as a whole, making it easy for the political power to overrule decisions from the supreme court. and as it was also referred, legislative proposals are being discussed to reinstate even the death penalty. this government is paving the way for a de facto annexation of the occupied territories. so let me end, mr president, with a sentence, there is no room for ambiguity. we are not anti-israeli, for we are by the side of the hundreds of thousands, of the millions of israelis that are fighting for democracy in israel in the streets these days.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i would like to put a question to the speaker. two weeks ago i was in moldova on a mission of the committee on budgets and we had the opportunity to discuss with the moldovan government the steps that the country is taking to become a state governed by the rule of law, with the independence of the different powers, in particular the reform of the judicial system, and a set of steps is being taken to enable moldova to join the community acquis by the end of the year. my question is this: how do you see the support for moldova, particularly from the european union budget?
three years after the entry into force of the uk withdrawal agreement, the european parliament presents the first assessment of its implementation, including the recent windsor framework agreement. since the withdrawal agreement, citizens' rights have always been a priority for the european parliament. the commission has expressed concern about the lack of support for vulnerable people with difficulties in managing the digital procedures set up by the uk authorities. it is found that a large number of eu citizens have only obtained so-called 'pre-established status' and will have to apply again to regularise their permanent resident status, which may lead to an 'automatic and unlawful loss of their rights'. this situation affects thousands of citizens from countries such as portugal, especially the outermost regions, who have settled in the uk in search of work. significant improvements are still needed to safeguard citizens' rights, in particular to provide greater legal certainty for eu and uk citizens and their families.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, as already mentioned by the rapporteur, mrs zovko, who i would like to congratulate, since 2018 there has been no report on eu-azerbaijan relations, but under the authoritarian regime of the aliyev family, little or nothing changes in azerbaijan. talking about the rule of law is still a mirage in the face of a controlled and obedient judicial system. human rights violations are on the rise. the repression and arbitrary detention of activists, political opponents and journalists remains a constant, a situation that is aggravated when we talk about women, activists and journalists, or attacks on the rights of the lgbtqi population. a muscular attitude is in stark contrast to the inability to clear the lachin corridor, blocked by so-called environmentalists. another provocation aimed at deteriorating the living conditions of the armenian population of nagorno-karabakh. the constant provocations, attacking the sovereignty of armenia and causing the escalation of the conflict in this region, the subjecting of prisoners of war to torture and acts of humiliation and the extrajudicial executions of armenian civilians and military personnel constitute violations of international law which cannot be tolerated. it is imperative that a lasting peaceful solution to this armed conflict be found, putting an end to the devastation and prolonged suffering of the people. we therefore call for an end to the war rhetoric, for the unblocking of the lachin corridor and for the return to the strictest respect for the principles of the helsinki final act and the basic principles of the osce minsk group. we welcome the european union mission recently sent to help stabilise the security situation and strengthen peace efforts. however, commissioner, in a context such as this, it is obvious that any deepening of the european union's relations with azerbaijan must be subject to conditionality in respect of the principles of democracy and human rights and to a positive attitude in terms of building conditions for peace in the region. if we are not able to learn from the past, mr commissioner, we should learn from the present and avoid making the mistakes that only we can avoid.
madam president, mr president of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, the extreme right has brought the debate on migration here, in connection with the next council. i would like to discuss here with my colleagues the need for a european fund to help the green industry which really reaches everyone in europe and not just germany and france. but i cannot help but react to the way the extreme right and the epp are looking at the desperation and deaths at sea. what is happening in the mediterranean - gentlemen of the extreme right, who have, by the way, already abandoned this debate - has nothing to do with open borders, it has to do with the open sea, yes, where thousands lose their lives to escape hunger, war, religious persecution and other orders. we are also concerned that the commission's proposal to introduce a new system of taxation of the income of the selfemployed is not being implemented, and that the commission is not taking any action to ensure that the taxpayers' income is not affected by the new system. mrs meloni and mr berlusconi, you will not pass! and, mr weber, end this unfortunate alliance of your party with the far right before i finally set your hearts on fire.
madam president, mr president michel, mr vice-president šefčovič, we have today, the european union has today, a temporary budgetary instrument, nextgenerationeu, to support reforms and investments in the member states. the international monetary fund, the european central bank, the european investment bank, the world bank and the european fiscal board are asking the european commission, are suggesting the creation of a permanent budgetary capacity. my question to the commission is this: how far is the european commission, following yesterday's ecofin debate and next week's european council debate, prepared to propose in its legislative proposals for the revision of the budgetary rules of economic governance the creation of a permanent budgetary capacity in the european union?
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, job creation is a priority that must unite us all. where we differ is perhaps in the strategy for achieving it. and we do not just differ between political parties, we also differ between member states. everyone says they want to create more jobs and decent work, but we still have economies in the european union based on low wages and high taxes. i share the commissioner's enthusiasm for working towards a strong european economy, but this is not compatible with situations such as portugal - a fragile economy, stagnating in growth and hijacked by a gigantic public debt, which results in emigration and poverty. youth unemployment in portugal is now one in five young people and we must find solutions so that we do not mortgage our future. but there are national governments, such as the portuguese government, that are more committed to blaming europe than to doing what they should do - to grow the country and contribute to a strong european economy. the portuguese minimum wage is ridiculously low and the average wage is little different. taxes are extraordinarily high and prevent any savings by households or investment by businesses. the public debt is unmanageable and we are already paying interest that, in the long run, is unsustainable. so the question is, who is responsible for the state this has reached? is it the european union, which is still the main funder of public investment? or is it the socialist government in portugal, which has been unable to make the country grow, despite having governed for 14 of the last 18 years? but the time for the bad-paying excuse is over. this is the time to ask governments for competence. i would remind you that long-term competitiveness is the message of the swedish presidency. so this is a call from europe, but it is above all a demand from the portuguese.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we must be more aware that the change of times is an opportunity for europe's economic and social position. if you're not prepared to think about tomorrow, you're making the wrong choices today. we have very clear instruments for achieving these objectives: strengthening the internal market, living in an eco-social market economy, implementing the 'fit for 55' and trade agreements with the world on the basis of our values. but we must also be honest: europe is losing weight in the world at the moment if we do not have more courage to design, more courage to invest. thirty years ago, europe accounted for 25% of global wealth. in 2040 the share will be only 11%. china and america will be ahead of us, and we will be on par with india. we therefore need more european cooperation, independence and capacity for action! the european union must be more competitive and an independent voice for the continent in the world. if we look at what we have done in recent years, we have very often located our production facilities outside europe, our energy supplies outside europe. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and it is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the environment.
mr president, commissioner, our companies can no longer take it. delocalisations, opening up markets to unfair competition, destructive free trade and the steering of our economy by technocrats who know nothing about the business world. in short, france has suffered for decades from the european union's bad choices. the commission is constantly asking france to sell everything. but with what result? the competitive economy you sell us like carpet salesmen is a deception. the chinese are attacking the automobile market and putting all our supply chains at risk. the americans are subsidizing their industries at the expense of the recovery in europe. to this you add mass immigration which is supposed to solve the problem of labour shortages but which in reality only weighs on the social budget. and you have the picture of total disaster. it's time to stop lying. your old recipes aren't working. you make decisions in spite of reality. the reality is poverty and unemployment, skyrocketing prices and the closure of our businesses. this is the nightmare that the people live, the nightmare of the nations that had everything for themselves and now have nothing but their eyes to cry. in the face of this, we have not changed our line: companies producing here, borders producing there and states finally taking action. you say more europe, more jobs, we say more nation, more reindustrialisation, more economic patriotism. i mean, all the things you've refused but that the gentiles have been asking for all these years.
mr president, the title of this debate could not be further from the truth. the growing social inequality is also a result and consequence of the european union's policy choices. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. in a context where workers are faced with a sharp rise in the cost of living and a deterioration in their economic and social situation, these debates are only aimed at masking the policies and responsibilities of those who, while they can, refuse to take the necessary measures to deal with this situation and respond to the aspirations and just aspirations of workers and peoples, starting with demanding the necessary and urgent general increase in wages, valuing workers, who are the creators of wealth, and protecting and promoting work with rights. this is the path that workers on the streets all over this europe have been demanding.
on behalf of the left group. other madam president, 15 years after the great financial crisis, what the svb crisis shows us is that the financial industry is the only one in the world that still cannot stand without public support and without public guarantees. even in a time of restrictive monetary policy, restrictive wage policy, restrictive budgetary policy, there are still no restrictions on banking. the problem is not that the states are not doing what is necessary to ensure the stability of the financial system. the problem is that the same principle does not apply when it comes to people's lives and their rights. and the big question is whether the ecb will also, like the us federal reserve, stop to think about its policy, because restrictive monetary policy, we know, played a role in the svb crisis. the us federal reserve will stop to think and convince the ecb to do the same, because today we know that this restrictive monetary policy is ineffective and carries multiple economic risks, including for the financial system. the other question is whether the european union will continue to bet on convergence with the us model of a highly securitised financial system, or whether it will bet on a more conservative, more prudent system with a strong public presence and serious regulation.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, and in particular ladies and gentlemen of the epp, the women, men and children who risk their lives to cross the mediterranean, knowing that so many are getting in the way, do so in utter desperation, to escape from hunger, war, ethnic and religious persecution in their countries. 26,000 have already lost their lives there. mrs mussolini of the epp, in particular: limiting search and rescue activities and restricting the work of ngos, which save lives, is the opposite of what the member states should be doing, of what your member state should be doing. it is profoundly inhuman and against european values. we should be arresting the smugglers - and, madam mussolini, it is they who are exploiting human lives, not the ngos who are rescuing people at sea - and strengthening rescue operations, trying to save all those who are in danger at sea out of sheer desperation, offering safe routes, of course, to those who are fleeing danger and, of course, european solidarity in the reception. but mr weber and mrs mussolini, do not continue to dance with the italian extremists for electoral reasons alone. there is no victory worth losing the values of humanity.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in july 2019, president von der leyen, then candidate for president of the commission, presented her political guidelines for the commission's mandate. a lot has happened, however, it's true, like the pandemic and the crisis that it caused, the war on our borders, which certainly consumed a lot of our energy. but this is the time to roll up our sleeves again and do what is necessary to meet the programme at the time it is presented. we welcome the commission's indication here that it has begun to act in this critical ethical situation in which it finds itself. but we must make a reality of the promise made then, once and for all, to create an independent ethics body common to all the institutions, as this parliament had already called for again in 2021, and reform the rules on conflicts of interest in the various bodies, increasing transparency and accountability for any infringement. recent cases only reiterate this need. we hope that the commission will now be able to put forward the proposals we have all been waiting for for too long, madam commissioner.
madam president, in 1916, emma goldman was arrested in new york for giving lectures and distributing information on contraceptive methods. more than 100 years later, many women still have to risk their freedom to defend basic rights. in poland, justyna wydrzynska was sentenced yesterday to eight months of community service for helping another woman exercise her right to an abortion, in a country where it is almost impossible for a woman to have access to such a procedure legally. in many other countries of the world, women have fought hard to have their sexual and reproductive rights recognized. sometimes successfully, as was the case in portugal two decades ago and the second time, or more recently in argentina, other times ending up in prison. this case deserves the protest of all the european institutions, as we are doing here in parliament today. and the struggle of these women is also our struggle, and we will always stand in solidarity with them.
madam president, yesterday marked the fifth anniversary of the murder of marielle franco, a young brazilian activist who defended the rights of minorities and the poorest. around the world, human rights defenders face arbitrary detention, torture, disinformation campaigns and it is estimated that between 2012 and 2022, more than 1,700 have been killed. the proliferation of authoritarian regimes and the fact that 75% of the world's population has experienced a deterioration in the human rights situation in their country in the last year are worrying and show that the protection of activists requires ever more comprehensive responses, coordinated at multilateral level. these guidelines are needed now more than ever. the european union cannot alienate its global role and presence in the world and its delegations must be active agents in this matter. human rights dialogues must not be mere soliloquies for the diplomatic record. we have to be more effective and tackle these cases.
in writing. we condemn the violations of women's rights, whether they occur in iran or any other country in the middle east, europe or the world. we stand in solidarity with the struggles for respect and fulfilment of women's rights - their social, economic, political, cultural or specific rights - whether they take place in iran, the united states of america, portugal or any other country in the world. we believe that the necessary investigations should be carried out to establish the facts and who is responsible for the poisoning of secondary school pupils in iran. we reject and denounce the use of women's rights and human rights in general as a pretext for destabilizing operations and confrontational policies in international relations, with such tragic consequences, particularly in the middle east. the most cynical invocation is that of those the us, nato or the eu who, while proclaiming respect for human rights, promote a policy of permanent destabilisation, including through the imposition of sanctions that undermine the rights of the iranian people, who are responsible for brutal wars in the middle east such as in iraq, libya or syria that have sown death and destruction.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when president saied, 20 months ago, dismissed the government and suspended parliament, assuming full powers, the international community - europe - was certainly alarmed. from then on, disappointments followed. the promises of democratization have not been fulfilled, just as respect for freedom of the press and of expression, for political freedom and freedom of association and for judicial independence have not been fulfilled. in fact, all of them have been breached. the sad reality in tunisia today is that journalists, trade unionists, political activists and judges are being arrested for political reasons alone, and the leader of the european trade union confederation has even been expelled for participating in a trade union demonstration, which we deeply regret. the people's disillusionment was expressed both in the mass demonstrations and in the very low voter turnout rates simply because they did not believe in the electoral process. it is therefore urgent to resume the process of national dialogue in order to find political solutions to the situation and to bring tunisia back on the path of democracy and respect for human rights.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the tunisian president's reforms are putting at risk the independence of the judiciary, the rights of workers, freedom of expression and association. the arrest of journalist noureddine boutar and the expulsion of trade unionist esther lynch are examples of this. civil society, the press, trade unions are vital in democratic societies. president saied's recent statements blaming immigrants for violence and crime have sparked a fire in a country that is experiencing deep social instability and a serious economic situation. yes, that's racist and disgusting. the resolution calls on the tunisian authorities to respect fundamental rights and the rule of law and calls on the commission and the council to denounce what is happening in the country. it called for eu aid to be channelled only to civil society. tunisia is too important a player in the mediterranean region, but we must ensure that its citizens live in democracy and the rule of law.
the situation in cambodia is deteriorating with each passing day. activists are spied on and arrested, ngos are criminalized, media outlets are shut down, trade unionists, activists and journalists are persecuted and detained. censorship has spread to social media, with citizens being detained for the content of their online posts and messages against hun sen's four-decade-old regime. kem sokha, former leader of the cambodia salvation party, was arbitrarily detained in 2017 and is now serving a 27-year sentence for treason and conspiracy with the united states in a politically motivated trial in a country that mimics the chinese regime. we call for the immediate release of kem sokha and all political prisoners, and for the european union to suspend all benefits under the everything but arms regime.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, pollinators are an important part of the maintenance of crop fields, crops and forests throughout europe. 78% of wildflower species and 84% of field crop species in the european union depend on the work of these small, large organisms. the extinction of bees will have an immediate devastating effect on agriculture, especially on small agricultural land, for example in the outermost regions. their endemic products, which depend on pollinators, will also be at risk in the face of the decline of the species as a result of a combination of factors such as land use change and biological invasions. an ambitious strategy that is friendly to pollinators and farmers is essential. biological alternatives to pesticides are a safe solution for the protection and sustainability of the ecosystem. bees are one of the most important living things on our planet. it's time to protect them.
this concludes the votes. (the sitting was suspended at 12.26)
the renew europe group and the green/free european alliance group have sent the president decisions on changes in appointments to committees and delegations. the decisions will be published in the minutes of today's meeting and will enter into force on the day of their publication.
the minutes of yesterday's sitting and the texts adopted are available. i see no objection to that. the minutes are approved.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on longterm commitment to animal welfare (2023/2598 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, for more than 40 years, the european union has sought to improve the welfare of animals through legislation and other action. one example is the ban on unenriched cages. it has improved the conditions for 360 million laying hens in the european union. similarly, we improved the conditions for animal transport and how animals are handled in slaughterhouses. however, there is still work to be done. science has shown us that we can do more, and societal demands for better animal welfare rules have also grown. so, we cannot and we will not rest on our laurels. later this year, the commission will propose an ambitious, balanced package of legislative proposals. the goal will be to better align our legislation with current scientific knowledge and citizens’ expectations. to give you one example, in line with the reply to the european citizens’ initiative ‘end the cage age’, the commission intends to propose the phasing out of cages used to keep certain farmed animals. the commission’s aim is to propose ambitious legislation broader in scope and easier to implement and enforce. at the same time, the legislation will have to take a long-term view. it will have to be balanced and to take into account social and economic realities, as well as food security. the commission is committed to delivering legislation that represents a major step forward for animals and for society as a whole. but society keeps evolving, and we must keep pace. in other words, we already need to think ahead and better protect even more animal species. with that in mind, a plan for further opinions on animal welfare from the european food safety authority is in place. it covers, for instance, the welfare of turkeys, beef cattle and farmed fish. the objective is to make the future framework flexible enough that it can easily adapt to new scientific evidence and introduce more specific rules for additional species through tertiary legislation. in addition, eu animal welfare legislation needs to evolve to better reflect the ethical dimension and growing demands from our citizens. as citizens’ concerns extend to the welfare of animals beyond eu borders, the commission is assessing the possibility of proposing import requirements. lastly, the package will be innovative. subject to the outcome of the impact assessment, the commission intends to propose an eu framework for animal welfare labelling to empower consumers to make animal welfare-friendly choices and to allow for a better return on investment for producers that invest in animal welfare. honourable members, animal welfare is a cornerstone of sustainable and resilient food production. it also helps tackle antimicrobial resistance, the silent pandemic that poses a threat to public health worldwide. so, the high ambitions now for animal welfare in the eu must remain high in the years to come. the european union has a proud tradition of defending animal welfare and playing a key role in setting global standards. i think we should make sure that we keep this tradition alive well into the future.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union today has the highest standards for animal welfare, from the first days of life to slaughter, because we are convinced of the indissoluble link between welfare and the quality of the products produced. in the european parliament, we had a committee of inquiry on animal welfare during transport, where for 18 months we heard from various actors involved in this field. one of the conclusions of this committee was that regulation no 1/ 2005 is not being properly applied in many member states. i would point out, commissioner, that whatever legislation exists at european level, if it is not properly implemented, we will never have the desired effects. member states are now able to allocate money through the new cap to farmers who ensure higher welfare standards, and romania has done so thanks to its commitment to respecting animal welfare in the long term. at the same time, we must be careful not to impose additional burdens on farmers who are already facing a number of restrictions in a difficult period, which would further accelerate the phenomenon of rural abandonment.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. it is this barbarity that defines the profound hypocrisy when we in this house talk about animal welfare. while article 13 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union defines animals as sentient beings and worthy of protection, the same article also provides for the suppression of these rights in the name of supposed traditions in the member states. the reality of bullfighting in the european union is indeed perverse. although this barbarism is confined to portugal, france and spain, the european commission hides behind article 13 and refuses to stop minors attending bullfighting events, refuses to end the financing of these activities with money from the common agricultural policy and remains silent when wild bulls are killed in the middle of the arenas for the sadistic pleasure of those who watch this aberration. it is time for the european commission to stop hiding behind the member states and to announce here and now that the next revision of the treaties will bring an end to the cruel, sadistic and violent industry of bullfighting.
madam president, mr vice-president, it is good to know that the european union finally has a bold and unashamed industrial policy to reduce our dependence on what are essential conditions for the green transition, such as solar panels, or for the digital transition, such as semiconductors. an industrial policy requires us to do what our competitors do: help our companies and support innovation. these are good objectives for industrial policy if we can make them simple and quick to implement, if this does not undermine social and territorial cohesion and if it reduces dependence, does not mean protectionism but diversification of our trade relations. strengthening our partnerships with latin america, giving importance to this region with which we have so many cultural and commercial ties, as i have advocated in this parliament since 2019, should therefore be a priority. we expect you to.
i have to say, madam president, the year is 2023, and since 2015, when the migration crisis began with the so-called arab spring, the european union has not yet shown itself to be competent in any area to address this problem. we had a million asylum applications in the european union last year. we know that more than half of them do not receive protection status - neither under the geneva convention, nor subsidiary, nor humanitarian - but that migration is taking place. in fact, the important right of asylum here has degenerated into a migration story, overburdening europe in a way that makes it necessary to say that something should finally happen here. but nothing will happen, even if it is debated again in the council. the british and the americans are at least doing something, and i say this once, it is a good way of making it clear that those who enter illegally have no chance of obtaining a proper asylum procedure here. the european union would be well advised - also in the interest of upholding asylum as an important right - to finally make such rules, to prevent illegal migration from being used as an instrument of asylum, and thus also to ensure social stability again and finally to stop this ever-increasing crime in europe.
the european council, in its conclusions, says that it is working towards a competitive eu. the european union is also calling for the release of the three former members of the knesset, who were arrested in the wake of the coup attempt. no word on the consequences of the sanctions which are being followed exclusively by the west. no mention of the bankruptcy of large industries and banks. no mention of the financial, economic and military superiority of the sino-russian bloc over the g7. the european council knows full well that without cheap russian gas and without good trade relations with china, there can be no question of the eu ever becoming competitive with anyone. i therefore call on the council to take steps towards peace in the conflict that the west is losing, towards the lifting of the sanctions that are destroying us and towards the normalisation of relations with russia.
madam president, i welcome the conclusions of the european council. i particularly welcome the references to restrictive measures. i have been insisting for the last few months on the need to strengthen the services of the union and the member states responsible for enforcing sanctions. i'm glad the conclusions are along those lines. sanctions are not only to be adopted, but also, and above all, to be implemented. it would also be very desirable if, in addition to the member states and certain related countries, a greater number of countries joined some of our sanctions. of course, what we have to ask of all countries is not to help russia evade its impact. we must be very vigilant and prevent products which we do not export directly to russia from being able to reach it through third countries. i therefore welcome the appointment of mr o'sullivan as special envoy. i shall end, madam president, with a few words on the condemnation of the war. we must continue to strengthen the majority of countries that reject russia's illegal behaviour. i therefore believe that it is necessary that joint communiqués adopted at international meetings at a high level involving european countries or the union should be able to include a clear condemnation of russia's war against ukraine and the use of force. this is no time for ambiguities, for abstract phrases, for implicit phrases. we must be clear and forceful.
madam president, i’m reading straight from the statement of the euro summit that goes like this: ‘we call for continued efforts to complete our banking union in line with the eurogroup statement of 16 june 2022.’ i wonder who prevents the completion of the banking union with its third pillar – that is the european deposit insurance system, which is pending for more than 10 years. well, the answer is very simple. it is a decision up to the european council itself, and specifically some member states don’t want to do that. now, with that in mind i want to end up like this. recently, you have seen the last few calm days in the banking sector. i think this is the right time to emphasise that without the european deposit system, not only the system is unfair and unfairly competitive, but also it’s an ethical commitment of the european council to fulfil its obligations towards european citizens across the european union.
madam president, competitiveness is crucial to our security as well as to the livelihoods of our citizens. i am therefore concerned about the lack of concrete action in the council conclusions. in addition, i regard yesterday's decision to ban combustion engines as an own goal in this context too. taking steps to protect the environment is, of course, the right course. however, they must not be accepted blindly. they must take into account the wider context, including geopolitical developments and the overall economic situation. take the example of slovakia and its secondary dependence on china through the automotive industry. to protect the environment while enhancing competitiveness, we need to work with our industry. but decisions like yesterday's that help chinese companies dominate the marketplace threaten the very existence of our industry and our economic security.
madam president, mr vice-president, i should like to begin by welcoming the european council's ratification of the conclusions of the ecofin council on the revision of the rules of economic governance. we now await the commission's presentation of the necessary legislative initiatives. the european parliament has been waiting for them for a long time. one thing is certain: we want net zero industry. we need to invest in strategic sectors without affecting the objectives of cohesion. we need to have stable supply chains for the climate and digital transitions. we must strengthen the strategic autonomy of the european union. the proposals which the commission is preparing to put forward for the revision of the rules of economic governance must create a favourable context and the necessary budgetary and investment capacity of the member states and the european union to enable us to achieve these objectives and not become themselves blocking these key political priorities for the future of the european union.
thank you, mr cañas. you said yourself that this was not the situation and the time to discuss this subject, but you did. let us now proceed as far as possible with our discussion.
madam president, once again the council is ignoring the difficult situation facing millions of workers and families every day, in the face of the continuing deterioration of real wages, the sharp rise in the cost of living and the accumulated loss of purchasing power. while smilingly taking pictures of your propaganda, you remain unmoved by the deterioration of the social and economic conditions of the workers and peoples, which is the result of your political choices - for example, in energy or in raising interest rates - and you favour an increasingly unequal distribution of wealth and the obscene increase in the profits of the big economic groups. not a word from you about the urgently needed increase in wages and pensions, the control of prices of essential goods, the fixing of maximum energy prices and the end of the marginalist rule or the full taxation of excessive profits. finally, among other things, concrete and immediate measures to counter the social tragedy that is becoming more and more evident.
mr president, the f-gas regulation is ambitious, projecting a zero-emission target from 2050 which we support. it is true that fluorinated gases are harmful to the atmosphere, but i would like to draw attention to desflurane, which is an anaesthetic gas used for surgery on paediatric, elderly and obese patients and because there is as yet no safe and effective alternative to this anaesthetic gas. thirdly, we must also say that the emissions of desflurane are very limited, since they occur in places where they are strictly necessary and where technologies exist which can recapture desflurane and prevent its release into the atmosphere. banning this anesthetic could put thousands of surgeries at risk. i call attention to this fact. it's not about choosing one path over another. we must safeguard these patients while saving the planet with this ambitious proposal, and i welcome both rapporteurs for it.
mr president, not allowing the registration of children of same-sex couples born abroad creates enormous uncertainty and puts the rights of children and many families at risk. parents may, for example, be prevented from accompanying their children to the hospital or from allowing them to go on a simple school trip. in extreme cases, if one of the members of the couple dies in a member state which does not recognise the parental relationship of the other parent, the child may lose not one but both parental figures. we are not talking about fiction, ladies and gentlemen! today there are european children who are taking these risks and who, unfortunately, seem to be joining those who were registered in milan. the european parliament will soon, as the commissioner has said, start discussing a proposal which aims to ensure that fathers or mothers recognised in one member state are recognised throughout the union by creating a european certificate of filiation for children. this recognition process must be fast, simple and accessible by digital means, and as juri rapporteur for this proposal i will work towards that. i hope that this parliament and all the member states will unite in defending a basic principle: that no child should have fewer rights in the european union because of the way he or she was conceived or the type of family in which he or she was born.
mr president, the olympic games 2024 are in real danger. the danger is the ongoing support of the international olympic committee (ioc) for russia and belarus to participate. this is unacceptable for the whole democratic world. hiding behind a neutral flag and non-discrimination principle is not an answer to russia’s war crimes. russia is killing civilians, abducting children and destroying ukrainian infrastructure. moreover, at least 260 athletes have already been killed by russia. in february, the european parliament clearly expressed its position when we condemned the decision to allow russian and belarusian athletes to compete in paris under a neutral flag. the only flag is the vile one on the battlefield. i urgently call on the ioc executive board, sitting in lausanne this week, to reflect on this reality and exclude russia and belarus from participation in the olympic games.
mr president, the livestock industry is a weapon of mass destruction, but i'm not the one saying it. it's the scientific reports that demonstrate the negative impact of this industry on ecosystems, on human health and, of course, on the well-being of billions of animals. but this industry is even more damaging because it benefits from a cultural status quo where any attempt to implement animal-free production and consumption alternatives is seen as extremist. moreover, its lobbying in local, regional, national and supranational institutions is continuous, conditioning and distorting public policies of general welfare. but the reality is that this pressure is nothing more than a sign of the fear these industries have of scientific truth and the power of choice of their citizens. and the shift to a lifestyle without animal consumption is not only possible but desirable to meet climate commitments, regenerate biodiversity, improve human health and protect the lives of billions of animals.
mr president, workers, pensioners and their families are being burdened unfairly by the continuing rise in the cost of living, with constant and unbearable price rises, with inflation set to rise above 8% in 2022 in portugal, without the corresponding increase in wages and pensions. this situation, which leads to the impoverishment of those who live by their work, contrasts with the greatest profits of the century achieved by economic groups and multinationals, exacerbating exploitation, inequalities and social injustices. there's a lot of hidden misery. the rich get richer and the poor get poorer. these are phrases that are becoming more and more frequent in the journeys we are making through the districts of portugal. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is still too early to say whether it will take a decision on the matter. the organized struggle of the workers, which is intensifying, will be decisive in reaching the necessary solutions that the government and the eu refuse to give.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, i would like to ask a question, but first i would like to thank the colleagues who have worked on this directive and on this proposal which we are discussing here today, and i would also like to thank the commissioner. this journey that we've taken and that has allowed us to get here is about the struggle of feminists to reduce the gender pay gap. what we have just heard is the situation in a country. the european parliament does not legislate for a member state, it legislates for the european union. and my question is whether the honourable member is comfortable with the 13% pay gap between men and women on average in the european union.
the blue card answer. but the paradox is that if legislation could have solved this, it would have. discrimination on grounds of sex is prohibited. that legislation has been in the eu and in denmark for many years. so if we could solve this by sitting in this parliament and passing new legislation that just brings in more bureaucracy, why wasn't it solved 20, 30 and 40 years ago? i can only refer to the fact that one of the largest danish trade unions, hk, has studied the problem and found that there is a wage gap, but cannot clearly define how it wants to solve it, and therefore i do not believe that the bureaucratic way is the way forward. you do, and that is the difference between being a european federalist and believing in the ability of nation states to best manage these areas.
mr president, i would like to thank you. labour market issues are outside the eu's remit and are best regulated at national level according to each country's history, system and context. the conditions are different and therefore different solutions are needed. there is no brussels solution. the pay transparency directive is expensive, cumbersome and bureaucratic. it completely defeats the swedish model where employers and the union negotiate wages. the eu wants to control what is said in an interview, how pay negotiations are conducted, what statistics each employer is required to produce and how they are communicated. the criteria to be applied to undertakings throughout the union are thus to be decided by a few people. the eu seems to want to follow a kind of planned economy model where all professions and all people can be placed in a few compartments. it's a model that has historically worked terribly badly. this directive belongs nowhere but in the trash.
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr postle, i would like to ask you a question about this directive. you said a moment ago that this directive will lead to more transparency, that women will have more opportunities. you're an elected official in poland. as you know, poland has one of the lowest wage gaps in the european union. we've managed without that kind of regulation. we have a very equal pay gap between men and women. so, are you not afraid that this regulation will cause... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i consider the adoption of this directive on pay transparency to be historic. finally, we will have legislation in the european union that will actually support the reduction of the gender pay gap. it is important to define what equal work actually means, so that we can compare, so that we don't have to deal with the argument that women do less, easier, easier work and therefore do not deserve equal pay. i am pleased that we have been able to push for more transparency in pay and improved the position of trade unions in collective bargaining. the obligation to disclose the salary level not only for the positions offered, but also the mandatory disclosure and comparison of the salary level for men and women will clearly show what the real situation is in the european union. we'll see who's really trying and who's just pretending to be equal. unfortunately, it's only going to be for the big companies, and i believe that's the way forward, so we can move forward. countries have laws against discrimination, but practice shows us that it can be circumvented with various allowances and so on. this way, we can effectively apply existing laws that are not being used enough today, and we can see who is really trying and who is just looking at equality.
mr president, commissioner, european women earn 13% less than men for equal work. this discrimination translates into thousands of euros of wage differential at the end of the year. but the consequences are not just economic. we cannot ignore the demotivation caused by wages that do not reflect the efforts and qualifications of women. this directive is another step towards ending gender discrimination and the european people's party enthusiastically supports it. at the same time, we know that the success of these measures depends on their sustainability, and that is why we have introduced a progressive approach, particularly for small and mediumsized enterprises. together, and with steady steps, we will win the battle for gender equality.
i feel that we must counterbalance the pessimism in this house. i'm not so bad with the woman's position. in education, women have not only caught up with men, they have passed them. this is reflected in virtually all of the eu. today, about 70% of the medical and dental staff are women. in secondary education, 65% of the staff are women, and in primary education, 88%. we actually see that inequality has been partially reversed. men are on average less educated, score lower in school, start internships less often, are more likely to be fired, and then have less chance of finding a new job. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic and social consequences of the single market. but that is for the member states to decide. more regulation, more bureaucracy from brussels, is not going to help.
mr. president, the mountain gave birth to a rat. another pompously announced and long-awaited directive which, after all, does little or nothing to combat the gender pay gap. in some cases, by legitimizing them, you can even perpetuate them. this is the case for the 5% difference between the average pay levels of female and male workers. after all, some disparity is acceptable. i don't know why. but it will certainly not be in the name of defending women's rights. in my country, the principle of equal pay for equal work is enshrined in the constitution. it is not always a reality because there is no political will. the means of labour inspection are scarce and mechanisms such as subcontracting or outsourcing are used to justify wage differences. we have tabled amendments to correct this, but most of them have not been taken into account. in practice, this proposal, while worsening the position of parliament and not contradicting the neoliberal orientations to which we are already accustomed in brussels, will do little or nothing to improve the lives of working women, nor will it reverse the policy of low wages which affects working women in particular.
the european union has as one of its objectives the elimination of inequalities and the promotion of equality between men and women, as well as the fight against discrimination on grounds of sex in all its actions. however, the social and economic disparity between men and women persists, particularly as regards pay. strengthening existing legislation, aiming at the implementation of tools and guidelines to analyse and assess wage inequalities in order to combat discrimination, including the drivers of gender pay gaps, is one way of giving member states tools and consequently putting pressure on employers to correct these problems. this is another step towards greater justice and equality between men and women.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, commissioner, the creation of the social climate fund, the establishment of the carbon border adjustment mechanism (cbam) and the expansion of the emissions trading system (ets) are three key measures for an effective, sustainable, socially just and inclusive climate transition. we could not pass an ambitious plan like the objective 55 package without a social climate fund. they can't be the most vulnerable paying for the climate transition. the cbam will ensure fair competition rules for the european carbon market. we have accepted the commitment that the revenue from cele will go, exceptionally and on a transitional basis, to a fund outside the budget of the european union. it weakens the role of the european parliament as budgetary authority, but it was the compromise possible with the council. finally, it should be recalled that the cele and the cbam should constitute own resources for the budget of the european union. as we have committed ourselves in the interinstitutional agreement, these resources are key to ensuring the reimbursement of nextgenerationeu.
in writing. the legislative package objective 55 contains a set of important and ambitious proposals for the revision of the european emission trading scheme (ets) for the aviation and maritime sectors. the outermost regions (ors), due to their location, face permanent challenges and specific needs different from those of continental territories. the proposals submitted considerably safeguard the outermost regions, especially in sectors which are crucial to ensuring their territorial and social cohesion. the derogations introduced for travel to and from the outermost regions protect these territories and people from price increases, while not placing an excessive burden on businesses in the climate transition and ensuring the time needed for their full adaptation. the adoption of the derogations has taken important steps towards a just transition that protects all european territories in a uniform way.
mr president, inflation affects all of us. the international monetary fund has said that this has left the economic outlook far from rosy. it warns of prolonged low economic growth. i hate to say i told you so, but i told you so. reckless government spending, covid-19, the russian invasion of ukraine, and ill-advised climate policies have gotten us into trouble. we have been warning for years about stagflation, the nightmare scenario of high inflation and low economic growth. meanwhile, the european central bank continued to buy up sovereign debt, keep interest rates low, and print money. not price stability, but keeping the eurozone together became the goal. mr president, what are we to do? cut red tape, cut subsidies and focus on a smaller government and, above all, a smaller eu. preventing any further burdens for our citizens. a better future lies ahead. i really believe that. but we have to want to see it.
mr president, next week we will be celebrating the 49th anniversary of the april revolution. it was at dawn on 25 april 1974 that the long fascist night that had oppressed portugal and the portuguese for 48 years came to an end. a dictatorship that subjected the people to poverty, misery, hunger and war to sustain the fortune and opulence of a minority that condemned the country to illiteracy and backwardness. a criminal dictatorship that repressed, censored, imprisoned, tortured and murdered many of those who dared to oppose it, particularly the communists. the april revolution restored freedom to the portuguese people, independence, sovereignty and peace. it has opened the way to the construction of a democratic, developed and progressive portugal. it guaranteed rights, affirmed values, made dreams come true and brought hope and the strength to dream to children, young people, women. the people are the most commanding. equality, freedom, democracy are not empty words, they are the present and the future to fulfil and defend. april 25th always! fascism never again!
mr president, madam president of the commission, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, in 2019 the council adopted the european union's position on china, identifying it simultaneously, as we have already mentioned today, as a partner, a competitor, but also a systemic rival. it is no coincidence that this proposal was put forward by the high representative, who since the treaty of lisbon has been acting as the joint representative of the commission and the council in the union's external policy, with the aim of ensuring a unified position on the part of the european union. since then we have faced events, however, that we did not imagine living and that affected the relationship with china. this was the case with the pandemic, the crisis that it caused, but also, and above all, the subsequent diplomatic confrontation, the mask diplomacy, the vaccine diplomacy, the disruption of global supply chains. but, of course, above all, the case of russia's aggression against ukraine and the declared 'friendship without limits' between china and russia, which is accompanied by the intensification of diplomatic and political relations between those two countries. so it's important, as the high representative said, to reassess our 2019 position on china, without, however, putting it into crisis. seeing china as a strategic rival, we have to eliminate our dependence on critical areas, starting with rare materials, and not be naive in areas where we still have technological superiority, and starting with issues like semiconductors. not because we want some kind of severance. we do not want to be constrained in our relationship, but rather to affirm and defend our values, which remain a central element of our european policy. as competitors, we must certainly be at the forefront of technological development, strengthen our economic security, as josep borrell has said, and deepen economic and political relations with the rest of the world, starting with greater use of the instruments of foreign policy. president von der leyen has spoken of this today and wanted to welcome this fact. this year, we have a huge opportunity on the way to the eu-celac summit. china has already started trying to take our place. but we do have to remain partners on some issues where global challenges can only be tackled together, certainly in the area of climate change, or by joining forces to end the barbaric invasion of ukraine.
mr president, mr vice-president, mr high commissioner, the eu-china strategy must be defined within an interinstitutional framework. it cannot be one institution alone that compromises the position of the european union. this debate serves that purpose. the european union, as a global power, must set its priorities, its path in dialogue with china. we have also had the high representative for foreign and security policy since the treaty of lisbon. we know that in the last year new disturbances have arisen in the bilateral relationship with china. we also know that the challenges and opportunities that china represents have changed over time. we have red lines: respect for human rights is one of them. but china is an important partner in the global and regional balance. finally, we need a political, economic and security strategy which benefits the european union, its strategic autonomy as a global actor, and which contributes to peace and multilateral balance.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think we're also clear on one thing: energy storage is not going to solve our massive future energy problem. even if these storage facilities exist, gas power plants will always be needed to absorb peak loads. the cost efficiency of these energy storage systems, it's not exactly exhilarating, as i think we all know. but - and this is also a very important point to bear in mind - we are entering into new dependencies here, namely dependencies on china, which, as we know, is on the other side of the coin. the union imports 98% of its rare earths from china. however, this is a purely academic discussion, because we will not have any significant electricity surpluses in the future. because the co2 madness and the eu commission's wit of the last few years have robbed us of affordable energy, ladies and gentlemen! today we pay more euros for the same russian gas via short-circuits than we did just a few years ago. what's the alternative? the alternative is now to be heavily promoted alternative energies heavily promoted because they are completely uneconomical. and these renewable energies will never be able to replace the old energies.
mr president, the various recommendations that the commission is making to the member states on energy storage in the context of the announced reform of the energy market are nothing new. in this whole package, the european commission not only fails to respond to the concrete problems resulting from the liberalisation of the sector, but may actually aggravate them. it is clear that the european union, both in the light of the content of the proposals submitted and in accordance with its long-standing policy, is seeking to safeguard the interests of the large private economic groups in the energy sector and to maintain a market which is clearly contaminated by its monopolistic characteristics, which are aggravated by oligopolistic practices. we believe that measures are needed for energy storage and that technological development will be key to its efficiency. but what the people need at the same time is a break with the energy policy of the european union. i would like to see this policy based on the liberalization of the sector removed. that states recover public ownership and strategic control over the main energy companies, the restoration of quality public energy services and the national and democratic planning of the development of the energy system based on scientific knowledge, technological progress and environmental sustainability, including the production, supply and transport of different forms of energy. as reality shows, energy - because it is a public good - must not be dependent on market contingencies that threaten it.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr high representative, peru has been through a period of unceasing political instability and, as i have said, latin america and peru deserve our attention as much as china does. or maybe more. in the last five years peru has known six presidents of the republic, including the first woman, dina boluarte, after the constitutional process legitimized by the peruvian national congress, a consequence of an auto-coup d'état by president castillo, which led to his arrest. recently we have witnessed several protests and a climate of violence with very dire consequences. the latest reports from the peruvian ombudsman speak of 49 civilians and 7 policemen killed and over 1 700 injured, as well as several racist police actions against indigenous peoples, mainly the aymara and the quechua, which we can only condemn. if the european union and this parliament are to continue along the path of support for political stability and the rule of law, in accordance with the peruvian constitution, we must not, at any time, ignore the concern about possible abuses and violence that could jeopardize the individual freedoms and physical integrity of the demonstrators and the police authorities. we therefore share the concern of the un secretary-general, antónio guterres, about this situation and his support for the ongoing investigations into former president castillo and current president dina boluarte, calling for these to be conducted independently and in the light of the separation of powers. mr. high representative, i want to end with a message of hope. peru's history has dictated that this is a country of unparalleled natural and cultural riches, a multicultural society where 47 languages are spoken and which preserves different peoples and their traditions. i hope that these peoples will be able to come together, respecting their enormous diversity, as we try to do here, every day, in the european union. perhaps our experience can be inspiring.
the left group. - mr president, five months after the coup d'état in peru which led to the ousting of the elected president, pedro castillo, the workers and people of peru are still standing firmly in the streets of the country in defence of freedom and democracy, demanding the resignation of dina boluarte, the calling of early elections and the convening of a constituent assembly. the police and military repression of protesters, which has already left dozens dead and hundreds injured, as well as the persecution of political, trade union and social leaders, continues. in the face of the serious violations to which the workers and people of peru are subjected, and as we did in february in lima, we once again express our full solidarity with the workers and people of peru, the communists and other progressive and democratic forces who are fighting for respect for the popular will, for the full restoration of rights and democratic legality.
mr president, let us be serious about this: the crisis we are discussing today is only the tip of the iceberg of a tremendous crisis that has been building in peru for decades. it is a crisis that erupted in the face of the instability generated by the deposition of castillo and the rise of baluarte, but which has behind it the revolt of the people against endemic corruption, against inequality, against structural poverty, against the centralism of lima, against the exclusion of indigenous populations and the widespread abandonment of populations by a political elite alien to the reality of the country and which is hated by its people. and we have to face this problem with clarity. and in the face of the violence that has broken out and that has caused 68 deaths, this violence cannot continue to be supported by impunity that fuels the population's distrust of institutions. so our role as the european union must be to continue to support the strengthening of the institutions and to support the move towards elections monitored by the international community, beyond the investigation of the acts of violence that have taken place.
mr president, mr commissioner, the multiplicity of crises, emerging and urgent needs since the beginning of this multiannual financial framework have depleted important budget lines and weakened the budget of the european union. challenges, crises, initiatives that in 2020 no one would have guessed, that's for sure. proof that the qfp is not prepared to respond to unforeseen... the resources in the mff are insufficient to finance important emerging priorities and already in 2004: strategic autonomy and the sovereignty fund, energy autonomy, the eastern partnership, ukraine, moldova, enlargement to the east and the balkans do not fit in this budget. the review of the mff is urgent. a 'business as usual' approach will not be enough to address the set of challenges we face. nor would it strengthen confidence in the european union. the commission must ensure flexibility, but flexibility alone is not enough. it needs to secure the necessary funding for major new policy initiatives and to respond to unforeseen challenges. commissioner, the revised mff should be in force on 1 january 2024 and thus provide the framework for a fair and effective eu budget for 2024.
mr president, the situation in the mediterranean sea, with thousands of dead, is a matter of great concern and continues to worsen. the european union's policies, in particular its increasingly selective, restrictive and inhumane migration policies, the externalisation and militarisation of borders, and a whole new and growing market in border defence and security have contributed to this, while failing to respond to the right to survival of thousands of human beings who are seeking a better life in europe. yes, it is solidarity we must talk about. the development of a humanitarian policy of support for refugees and respect for the rights of migrants and the fight against the causes of mass immigration is urgent and required, that is to say, an end to the policies of war and interference, an end to the neo-colonial policies of exploitation of the peoples and countries of africa and the middle east, respect for the sovereignty and independence of states, a determined fight against poverty and policies of effective solidarity and cooperation for the development of economically less developed countries.
mr president, the international organization for migration reveals that the first quarter of this year was the deadliest in the mediterranean since 2017. in three days, 3,000 people have recently landed on the italian coast. an immigration crisis, as meloni and salvini and company would have you believe? no, i'm not going. the entry and reception of millions of ukrainian refugees on european union soil since 2022, without any shock, is proof that this is not so. but yes, we have a humanitarian crisis, and above all a crisis of political will and a crisis of the humanistic values on which we are founded. the criminalisation of rescue, the declaration of a state of emergency to speed up the expulsion of immigrants, the walls advocated by mr weber, will never be able to stop the sea crossing of people in despair. solidarity is not an option. it's a duty. if we are not able to launch a european search and rescue operation based on the obligation to show solidarity, to welcome and protect those who are seeking a chance to live in safety and dignity, we will all be to blame.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, commissioner. council colleagues, are there more hideous and repulsive crimes than those committed against children? not in my moral code. not in the moral code of any decent person. the icc took no notice of the russian actions and acted. so from here, i say, mr putin, you crossed so many lines with this war that you will be remembered for the worst reasons, but do not add one more horrible chapter to the history books, not one on kidnapping children. they are only children. certainly not your enemies, not soldiers, for sure. they are innocent children that will be marked for life for your actions. if there is a shred of humanity in you, do something decent for once. stop the kidnappings and return the children to their families. even the russian people that you are manipulating and repressing will be against you when they know what you have been doing. and rest assured, we will make sure that they know.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, financial markets are changing and the laws have to change with them. digitalisation and decentralisation are inevitable trends. the emergence of crypto-assets brings risks that we need to mitigate and opportunities that we can't afford to miss. europe missed the innovation train when the internet came along and failed to lead the revolution of the internet of platforms. now it's not enough to just catch the train. we have to be the engine of innovation and lead this new era of financial technologies on the web. 3.0. and more and more europeans are using crypto-assets to invest, to buy goods and services, or even to support causes like ukraine's fight for freedom and democracy. these assets must therefore be reliable and trustworthy for citizens and businesses. we must avoid the legal obstacles and red tape that drive away investment. we need to have a competitive tax policy to attract the best brains and the best designs. we need to invest in digital infrastructure that facilitates the deployment of the best technological solutions on european soil. as with everything, there are no changes without risks. the financial scandals that we know of would not be prevented by this legislation, but would be harder to happen. with the regulation on crypto-asset markets we are sending a clear signal: europe wants to regulate in a smart and forward-looking way. and with the regulation on money transfers we have signalled that the fight against money laundering, the financing of terrorism and the evasion of international sanctions is not a window of opportunity here. europe can be proud of the step we have taken today. this time, we're not gonna watch what happens. this time, we'll tell you how it's gonna go.
mr president, the cryptocurrency market today is as capitalized as the subprime industry was before the last financial crisis. and this dimension is still growing, and will grow even more after this regulation is adopted and public credibility is given to an industry based on 'monopoly money'. but just because crypto-assets are play money doesn't mean they don't have serious consequences. the link between the crypto market and the conventional financial system is growing, and more and more households are giving away real money in exchange for playful assets. the regulation proposed here is already obsolete, as the president of the european central bank said, that is to say, we are adopting a regulation which is already obsolete before it enters into force. secondly, it is ineffective because it puts an impossible task on regulatory agencies, preparing them to become scapegoats for future financial crises. and finally, it does absolutely nothing - except a little statement of intent - about the environmental consequences of this absurd industry.
mr president, europe has more than one currency in the euro. it is a commitment by 20 of the 27 member states to share a significant part of their sovereignty over monetary policy. and because we're talking about sovereignty, it's important that we be clear with the citizens that we represent. it is true that the globalisation of economies, the digitalisation of payments or the decentralisation of financial services require a robust monetary policy response. the questions that arise, however, are these: what problems do europeans face that require a digital euro? what is the added value of a single digital currency for the euro area? and what opportunities will this project bring for european citizens and businesses? in other geographies, digital currencies are taking the lead, and we can't afford to be left behind. we should be discussing concrete proposals at this point, precisely to identify the problems we are going to solve, to decide on the functionalities we want for the digital euro, and to create a space of opportunity for citizens to expand their financial freedom and for businesses to be able to invest and innovate. this is not the time to prolong debates about where we are. this is, yes, the time to decide where we want to go.
madam president, commissioner, member of the council, this strategy for global health in the european union has been long awaited and necessary and represents what is the external dimension and a very important step towards a true european health union, based on one health, based on health in all policies, as i have been advocating here in the socialist and democratic group since the beginning of the pandemic. the european union must strengthen its position as one of the main donors to the world health organisation by speaking with one voice in the negotiations on the pandemic treaty. it is also urgent that the commission clarifies one of the greatest global health threats to date: antimicrobial resistance, the greatest threat we are facing alongside climate change. how is the delay in the presentation of the pharmaceutical strategy undermining this important battle? it is not enough to have documents, strategies and communications. the european union has proven itself, it has overcome difficult moments in public health, but when it comes to creating practical and lasting solutions, we cannot fall short.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i could easily have kept quiet during my speech, as many do on this subject. but no, i choose to speak because i would not forgive myself if i did not, and i do so not just for myself, but for the next generations of europeans and the next generations of any other geography. and i say that because, despite all that this house has done, many national governments have not been up to the task. they have not met the required targets. many have been good at propaganda, with repeated and expensive advertisements, but unable to keep up with the pace that is required and that this parliament has set. the problem with propaganda is that it can fool some for a long time, or many for a while, but it cannot stand the test of time. and it fundamentally does not solve the problems that need an urgent response. as the report notes, every small increase in the planet's temperature increases extreme events, such as severe droughts or fires. so this report and this call for attention from the scientific community is also a deafening call to action from many european governments, who must be asked to make less noise and to do more. governments that often use prr funds for climate action propaganda and even those funds are not able to properly harness and enforce. and i'll end by saying this: europe has been lighting the way, but unfortunately many governments prefer to remain in the dark.
mr president, the report paints a clear picture of the future that awaits us depending on what we decide to do now and in the next ten years. our decisions will have an impact not just in the immediate future but for thousands of years. the responsibility we have on our shoulders as legislators is enormous and should push us to take tough decisions that leave no one behind. we must protect the most vulnerable regions; we need to increase the global financial contribution to adaptation, especially in developing countries. the far right, today, has told us that our environmental policy is an ideology or a religion. no one can measure the science and the facts, almost half the world's population lives in regions that are highly vulnerable to climate change. we must remember that, in the last ten years, deaths from floods, droughts and storms have been fifteen times higher than normal. this is not ideology, this is not religion, these are facts. these people cannot be left alone and we now have confirmation that last summer was the hottest on record and that europe is warming at twice the rate of the rest of the world. the road ahead is a tough one because last year was the most emission-intensive, but we can get there with a significant reduction in global warming within 20 years. let's all be on the right side of history.
mr president, commissioner, in 2019 our parliament made europe the first continent to declare a climate emergency. the urgency is there, as the latest ipcc report shows. as a caribbean, i see the effects of climate change every day, and it is affecting african, caribbean and pacific countries even more. it's not just them. today, more than half the world's population is vulnerable to climate change. our objective of limiting global warming requires a transversal approach, particularly through sustainable development on a global scale. the 2030 agenda, together with the sdgs, is a clear and imperative international roadmap. but we're running behind. we must redouble our efforts, both within the european union and with our partners. i want to hammer it out here: the cost of inaction will be far greater than the cost of transition. calls for a collective leap of conscience to achieve the green deal and the establishment of a new global financial pact.
mr president, the commissioner has warned that we are not doing enough, and i clearly agree, but also because we fundamentally ignore the impact of the livestock and dairy industries, which have a high impact, not only on greenhouse gas emissions, and i am talking about methane and co2, but also on the devastation of soils and the destruction of aquatic resources. you also spoke here of the unsustainability of many investments. i also agree with the commissioner. but there is a great deal of inconsistency here when we, at the beginning of this mandate, adopted a package called the common agricultural policy, which funds a highly unsustainable agri-food system with 380 billion euros. and so there really has to be coherence, and the report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change shows us that coherence by presenting us with some solutions. one is to have a voluntary consumption of non-animal products, that is, to switch to a plant-based lifestyle. and so the question i ask the commissioner, since he has also spoken about consistency, is what he is going to eat for lunch today and whether it is indeed a plant-based meal.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, rural areas and all the regions listed in article 174 of the treaty need a specific strategic development framework which does not ignore the characteristics of each and their vulnerabilities. they need a european legal framework which is conducive to their economic, social and even environmental development. as these are regions with different characteristics, this legal framework must provide for exceptional situations, since we are dealing with different realities, which require different responses. we have a lot of strategies that need to be out of the paper quickly. we have just recently adopted our position on the long-term vision for rural areas and, in the regi committee, we have adopted our first position on the strategy for the outermost regions, on which i had the honour of working as rapporteur for the opinion and the final report. in both dossiers i defended cohesion, and that is what the issue under discussion today is about: cohesion, social justice and the way forward towards convergence. we must put aside unfounded threats to the internal market when we all know that state aid in these regions has an essentially local impact, although of enormous importance for the development of these territories. consideration should also be given to the need to ensure additional provisions for the outermost regions, as provided for in article 349 of the treaty, in particular in the ongoing review of the de minimis rules, with the appropriate increase of the maximum permitted aid ceilings. i would like to conclude by calling on the governments of our member states (and/or our regions) to make use of this aid, because without it it will simply be a 'handful of nothing'. and that is what we want to avoid in the name of cohesion!
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, council, dear vice—president šefčovič, colleagues, the commission’s proposal follows a constructive approach that improves national ownership and flexibility, a step in the right direction that we welcome. even so, there are still some challenges in it mr vice-president. first, the social dimension has been relegated to a footnote – but economics is not just mathematics, it should be about people in the end. the economic governance must help us sustainably deliver the social pillar and the porto agenda commitments. secondly, we are missing another opportunity to create a permanent european investment capacity. such an instrument would help us deliver strategic reforms at european level and stabilise our economies through the economic cycles. without it, the monetary union remains unfinished. finally, a stronger role for the commission merits stronger accountability towards this house that represents directly the european citizens. it is time to deliver what is necessary for the well-being of our citizens. you can all count on the s&d for that.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, this process will put an end to the existence of useless and counterproductive rules which have harmed the economy as a whole and, in particular, the economy of several member states of the union. but the proposal we have here does not address what was one of the key points in the specifications of this review: the protection of investment. the european commission wants countries to invest more in the green and digital transition, but it provides no flexibility mechanism for this to be done, contrary to what was requested by the european budgetary council. first proposal: to defend, protect, within the framework of the rules, public investment in public services, in the green transition and in the digital transition. the proposal also establishes a permanent rescue scheme. we are back to having technicians making decisions that fit democracy, overriding the agendas of democratically elected governments, including defining a macroeconomic trajectory that is obviously a political choice of the utmost importance. second proposal: focus. if we really want to talk about national ownership, if we really want to talk about respect for democracy, then all aspects of each country's plan, starting with the macroeconomic trajectory, have to be defined by the democratically elected governments of that country. the third point concerns the definition of the reform and investment plans. in the commission's proposal, the final decision will always be taken by the commission and the council, creating a quasi-colonial power for some member states and for the commission over sovereign countries. the third proposal is that the final decision should be taken by the national parliaments, within the framework of criteria for economic policy which should be discussed in the european parliament.
mr president, madam minister, mr vice-president, the legislative proposals confirm several of parliament's calls for reform of economic governance. the case-by-case analysis of debt and expenditure or the inclusion of the european pillar of social rights are examples of this. but the inclusion of new quantitative benchmarks, which were not included in the commission's november proposal, represents a return to the past and a step backwards in the ambition of this reform. the obligation to reduce the deficit by at least 0.5% per annum or the prohibition of primary expenditure growing above potential output are serious risks of countercyclical policies and economic destabilisation. these proposals are more in favour of financial discipline than investment and strategic reforms. without a permanent common investment instrument, this reform will be incomplete. the right investments bring the right rewards. there's no guarantee that it won't.
madam president, mr chancellor scholz, welcome to the european parliament on this europe day. chancellor scholz has played a decisive role in important moments of progress of the european project in the recent past. in particular, this hamiltonian moment of the european response to the covid crisis. i must say, however, that i am surprised to have to remind mrs reintke and the german greens of this today, and not just the epp. the chancellor said in prague that the way forward is more europe, a more sovereign europe. he advocated enlargement, but also the deepening of europe. as you said, the lessons of the covid crisis have been that it was by investing together and with common rules and support that we overcame this great crisis. we will only be truly autonomous in the areas of security, energy and digitalisation if we are more european. i therefore believe that we must discuss, as of now, a permanent european investment capacity as the next step in the deepening of this union, if we really want to be more european.
madam president, madam minister, mr commissioner, on this europe day, we cannot but appreciate the creation of what is the fundamental instrument of the european response to the pandemic - nextgenerationeu. with nextgenerationeu, europe is not in recession, as has been predicted. economies are starting to grow, public investment is getting stronger. prr has been instrumental in making european economies and societies more sustainable, resilient and better prepared for the challenges and opportunities of the green and digital transitions. it is never too late to remember that the prr is a programme that is different from all others created to date, and not just in terms of the funding model. prr is a results-based mechanism. payments are made on the basis of evidence of results translated into reforms and investment, milestones and targets. central management by the commission, but the commission be clear is managing within the framework approved by the council. it is the european parliament's responsibility to ensure that there is transparency and integrity in the management of european money, and we have done so. and as with all new and different programmes, there is a necessary adaptation which the european commission has been complying with. a good example is the partial state failure methodology published in february. prr, we have to admit, worked in 2021 thanks to everyone's efforts.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. other madam president, commissioner, every year we see a different version of the same newspaper covers: jealous husband doesn't accept divorce and shoots his wife, he sees deaths on television and tells the victim one day you will be you, leaving her lifeless on christmas day, and so on. this is just the tip of the iceberg. it is estimated that one in three women worldwide has been a victim of violence. the istanbul convention sets out rules to prevent gender-based violence, protect victims and punish perpetrators. this parliament has the opportunity this week to take a historic step in the protection of european women. i call on all my colleagues to vote tomorrow on this convention on behalf of the women of hungary, the czech republic, bulgaria, slovakia, lithuania and latvia, countries which have not yet ratified it.
madam president, commissioner dalli, why are we debating in the european parliament the final ratification of a council of europe convention adopted in 2011 at the latest, today, 9 may 2023, europe day, signing a commitment against all forms of violence against women? well, first of all, because this parliament has the power to do so. it has the final say on the entry into force of any international agreement negotiated on behalf of the european union. secondly, because it is the final stage of a long process, overcoming many difficulties, after a judgment in which the court of justice tells the european parliament that the european union can ratify it, even though not all the member states have ratified it, which is unfortunate in itself. we have shared this work in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which i have the honour of chairing, with the chairmen of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, evelyn regner and robert biedroń, respectively. but i would add that this work will not be complete unless we clearly state that women's rights are human rights. secondly, that the european union should help financially in the implementation of this convention and provide financial support to all organisations which protect women, and particularly victims of gender-based violence. and that, of course, the work will not be complete until we ratify a criminal directive making any form of violence against women a european crime.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am a conservative and i can say that anyone who commits violence against women is the worst monster and the worst waste of this society. but i also think the same about who commits violence against men, who commits violence against children, who commits violence against people, for example, the elderly. i myself served for several months during the covid-19 pandemic in both nursing homes and hospital front lines. and what i'd seen on people who came to the hospital, it was sickening. ladies and gentlemen, domestic violence is an abomination in any form, and today's discussion should be about how to prevent domestic violence from ever happening to anyone and make it a safe way for that person to report it at any time and to get immediate help at any time. violence is not gendered, violence affects everyone. let's fight him together.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. states have obligations. states have an obligation to guarantee all people living there a life free of violence, a life in which they can participate as actors without fear of violence. states have an obligation to protect women from violence, from any form of violence: from rape, from domestic violence, from intimidation, from femicide - there are countless forms of violence. and that is precisely the protection which the istanbul convention provides, so it is the most normal instrument that can be found to guarantee that protection. that's why today is a big day. we can guarantee the legal protection of the convention to all women and girls in our union through the istanbul convention. you can apply to the european court of justice for it. and the commission can impose sanctions on states which fail to guarantee these basic rights to our women and girls. a step towards a europe free of violence is now a reality.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are moving towards a historic moment. when we, as the european parliament, call for the european union to accede to the istanbul convention, we are sending a message: a message to all the citizens of the eu, to women, to young women all over the world, to all those who have experienced patriarchal violence; a sign to those who have fought for years, for decades against violence against women, who have stood up politically, ideologically in institutions, in courts, in the streets against patriarchal violence. it is also a sign to the right here that it is trying to damage the issue, to damage our cause with sexist and racist discourses. and it is a signal to those six member states which have not yet ratified the convention. we will never stop asking ourselves how we can counter political forces that fight to protect women from violence. one in three women in the european union is a victim of violence. and we'll be chanting this number, but we'll never stop being shocked by it. violence happens in all ranks, from the streets to the top floors. it is a structural problem which we will combat if we stop backward trends, if we slow down, if we implement women's rights unconditionally. the istanbul convention is not the end of violence against women, but an important and relevant step in the fight against violence against women and a step that makes me believe that ... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, i would like to thank you. i have been working on the istanbul convention since its inception, and then as a member of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe. while we know that one in three women in the eu has been subject to physical and/or sexual violence, several countries have chosen not to ratify the convention. while more than half of women in the eu have been victims of sexual harassment, eu ratification has been delayed. this is a betrayal of all women and girls, and of society at large. i look forward to the eu finally ratifying this convention, while at the same time putting strong pressure on all member states to do the same. it is equally important that we get the directive on violence against women in place. men's violence against women is a threat to equality, democracy and society as a whole. the eu must therefore do what is necessary to put an end to men's violence against women once and for all. a zero vision is something we really need to stand up for together.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when i meet many women, i think that, according to the data, one in three of them has suffered physical or sexual violence, often at the hands of a close person, perhaps a family member. those are scary numbers that photograph the female condition. violence against women is a violation of human rights that we can no longer tolerate. preventing this violence, protecting the victims and prosecuting the perpetrators is a duty owed to the 150 million girls and girls who are raped or sexually abused every year around the world. the istanbul convention is the first legally relevant international instrument ratified by the majority of european states, and what we are doing today is a decisive step, but it is not enough. the convention must be accompanied by a strong cultural policy, which is implemented primarily in schools through sexuality and sexual health education, in order to raise women and men who are able to respect themselves, who are able to be respected, who are able to defend their health. we need to raise a generation emancipated from violence, a society where everyone feels safe, free to be themselves, without fear of harassment, abuse, discrimination.
madam president, in portugal, in the first quarter alone, there were almost 7000 complaints and five murders for domestic violence, a daily newspaper reported yesterday. structural phenomena of violence against women persist and require specific, articulated and integrated measures of prevention, protection and eradication. among the measures needed are: the strengthening of the material and human resources of the public services involved in this field, from the health services to social security, security forces and services to the judicial authorities; and the adoption of specific policies to raise awareness and educate schools, the police, society and their organisations on these matters. accession to the istanbul convention is an important step in preventing and combating all forms of violence against women and a step in the adoption of a serious commitment by states to end such violence against women, in law and in life, and this commitment cannot wait. neither are women's rights.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, commissioner, once again, guns are heard in sudan, killing hundreds of innocent people. human beings just like us, with the only difference that the chance determined them to be born in a country and region devastated by wars that caused countless victims and devastated the economy and hopes for development. in the first weeks of this war, almost a million people already left their homes and survive in unbearable conditions. while successive attempts for a ceasefire fail on the ground, the peace talks are also not achieving much. this is precisely a situation where the eu can and must assert its role in the world, providing urgent support to avert the looming humanitarian crisis and exerting all the pressure to bring the parties to a ceasefire. let us not allow for a new tragedy, or at least do the utmost of our efforts. if the eu wants to live up to its values, this is the time to go for our limits.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, in the name of the socialists and democrats, to say that we fully support having this debate. we consider there are numerous sources of precariousness at this stage in europe: the rising cost of living, the price of housing, the situation in the labour markets. but – and that is a formal request from our side to change what we had sent in written – we consider that this debate should be held on 1 october and not in september. we consider that it should not be a last minute debate at the later stage on wednesday, but a proper debate with proper preparedness by the groups, by the members, even eventually at the committee. so our request is for the debate to be held on 1 october.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, buy now and pay later is the name of a popular form of consumer credit: buy now, pay later. apparently, with no added costs and a click away, it can become a problem when payment is delayed. what was costless begins to pay off, and it pays off dearly. when interest rates go up, as they are now, we become more sensitive to credit problems. we have become more aware of the importance of preventing reckless lending and over-indebtedness. that is why, in the revision of this directive, we have extended the rules for consumer protection even to those cases which seem to be free of any risk. even in those cases, we force lenders to assess the creditworthiness of consumers. a lot of small loans can become a big one. rather than buying now and paying later, it is even better to prevent now so that you do not have to remedy later.
mr president, today marks exactly 50 years since the fascist coup that overthrew the popular government of chile, led by president salvador allende. at a time when some are trying to whitewash fascism and its crimes and when deeply reactionary forces of the extreme right and fascism are being promoted, we must remember the fascist military coup in chile, the cruel, violent and bloody dictatorship of pinochet, the disastrous consequences of the brutal application of the neoliberal theses of chicago to the workers and the chilean people, but also the persistent and courageous resistance of the communists and other chilean democrats and progressives against the fascist dictatorship. we are aware of all the solidarity expressed in portugal, particularly for the april revolution during those dark years in chile, on the 50th anniversary of a crime that must not be forgotten, and we remember its victims and reaffirm our solidarity with the workers and the chilean people and our confidence in the construction of a sovereign, democratic style of justice and social progress.
mr president, 70% of transport emissions come from our roads. in early 2023, as shadow rapporteur, i defended the proposal to reduce co2 emissions to the atmosphere of light vehicles from 2035. and today i would like to be here to support a more ambitious euro 7 proposal, because air pollution is a problem that cannot be ignored because of the serious consequences for the wellbeing, health and quality of life of europeans. and contrary to the right-wing rhetoric, the benefits of euro 7 were obvious. the benefits of the commission proposal: for every euro invested there would be a return of 5 € on healthcare and environmental protection. the right approach to this report is detrimental to our ability to meet the current challenges, both environmental and public health, and the fight against air pollution, for the protection of the environment and for the health and wellbeing of those we represent is an action that requires commitment and above all courage.
member of the commission. – madam president, the debate today is testimony of your continued commitment and engagement to uphold democratic values, especially at a time when they are facing serious threats and new challenges. in light of this, we welcome your recommendations on how the eu can best contribute to strengthening the resilience and legitimacy of electoral processes. the eu will continue to use all the tools at its disposal in support of the right to participation in public life and democratic elections. this includes supporting the work of electoral observers as what they truly are: human rights defenders. the eu and its member states will continue working with international partners to uphold international standards in election observation, while we step up support for genuine domestic observation. the comprehensive and coherent follow-up of the eu election observation mission reports remains crucial. our actions need to be tailor-made, be efficient and, above all, serve to support national-led solutions. these can range from providing technical support to strengthening the resilience of the institutions or media actors, to supporting dialogue between an autocratic regime and the political opposition, or even imposing restrictive measures as a last resort. this is what we have done, for instance, in the case of belarus. we need to remain vigilant and adapt our actions to the new, sophisticated strategies that autocratic regimes have adopted to undermine the rule of law at home and abroad. the creative solutions that you suggest in your report will be highly considered in this process.
in writing. – geopolitical turmoil, chief amongst it the russian war of aggression against ukraine and its global repercussions, is both the cause and the consequences of an environment in which democracies are openly challenged. only 6.1% of the world’s population lives in a functioning democracy, according to the most recent global democracy index. more than a third of the global population lives under authoritarian rule. precisely because democracy is the beating heart and core of the european union’s identity, we need to reinforce the right to participate, in the world. autocracies employ increasingly versatile tools to legitimise elections that are neither fair nor free – be it through fake observers or the abuse of information and communication technology. the european union needs to strengthen the link between election observation work and our wider support for human rights and democracy. parliament’s democracy support and election coordination group is a dedicated structure that coordinates our work in this area. over the last year, and especially since 2014, our democracy support activities have been ramped up. we have developed expertise and capacity to provide comprehensive assistance to non-eu parliaments through a number of activities undertaken ahead of, during and after elections.
mrs president, the outermost regions face particular challenges because of their geographical location, because they are far from the european continent. however, these challenges should not be insurmountable obstacles but opportunities for overcoming and growth. it is therefore urgent to set up a specific transport infrastructure to improve the mobility of these regions, facilitate access to european markets and ensure full socioeconomic cohesion in the european union. because posei is much more than a financial support programme, it is a catalyst for the progress, cohesion and strengthening of the outermost regions, and the future of these regions depends on our action and our unwavering commitment to the outermost regions.
madam president, i was going to talk about the massive lobby that the meat industry made within the european commission to derail a historic promise made by president ursula von der leyen to improve animal welfare standards in the european union. however, i will focus on the unfair, unjust and inhumane conviction of the lawyer and animal activist wayne hsiung in the united states. so wayne was recently convicted of conspiracy and misdemeanour charges for, brace yourselves, saving sick and injured livestock animals from factory farms. the system is so rotten that even in the trial, all the evidence of animal abuse and cruelty were dismissed. the power is so corrupt that this hero was convicted for having compassion towards sentient beings. so let it be known all around the world and here in the european parliament that we stand by you, wayne, and we will fight back.
madam president, the message we have to focus on today is that the iranian regime is the undeniable epicentre of regional instability and chaos. it is known that the head of the snake lies in tehran, and we must cut ties with the mullahs in iran. with the current crisis happening in the middle east, the one benefiting and sowing this chaos is sitting in tehran. while the people of iran are demanding change and unbearable numbers are being executed on a daily basis in iran, the regime is taking advantage of what is happening today. the future of the middle east – and, indeed, global stability – is directly linked to iran. a free, democratic and progressive iranian republic can act as a catalyst fostering regional peace and cooperation. so the global community must renew and enhance its support for the iranian people’s aspirations, and ensure that their quest for freedom and justice is not in vain.
madam president, across ireland we have seen mass rallies rightfully calling for an end to israel’s massacre of innocent children, women and men in gaza, wiping out entire families, brutalising those in occupied territories. the israeli ambassador in ireland has insulted and attacked the irish people and our president for showing solidarity. further, israel now refuses to allow irish citizens to leave gaza. her position is untenable whilst israel intensifies attacks and turns its face against an immediate ceasefire. and what has the european union done to help? its inaction and the indifference of eu leaders and eu institutions towards gaza has brought the european union and this house into disrepute. it’s shameful! they should be ashamed for not demanding an immediate ceasefire, for turning a blind eye to 4 000 dead children in gaza, murdered by israel. these are war crimes wiping out generations of palestinians from existence. this genocide must end with an immediate ceasefire!
madam president, the government of latvia has decided to use a historic window of opportunities in order to eliminate russian language and culture in my country. a country where the first russian secondary school was created more than 200 years ago. the latest school reform is uprooting the mother tongue from the lessons in national minority primary schools. the native language can only be studied at will in additional lessons. preschool children are punished for greeting each other in their own minority language. the policy of double standards, allowing to close their eyes to deprivation of minority rights, has flourished after 2004, when the east european states have joined the eu, bearing on board the essential percentage of traditional, national and linguistic minorities. but this policy has resulted in a sharp decline in minority rights standards for the old europe. so, we have to erase three viruses – anti-semitism, islamophobia and russophobia – here in the european union … (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, we are in the centre of europe where public transport is well-functioning, but the reality of public transport in my country, galicia, is this: buses are crowded in towns and cities, people wait hours to get to or from work and schools, timetables and tickets are not working, people who need to travel are forced to book many weeks in advance, delays are continuing, connections to rural areas are not working and contracts for transport workers are unstable. the bus sector in galicia is almost monopolized by the transport company monbus, backed by the galician people's party government, as justice has just confirmed. european competition rules continue to be disregarded in galicia. i ask the commission to take note of this problem, which is clearly discriminatory against galicians and galicians who want decent and quality public transport as in the rest of europe.
madam president, there are rare moments in life when world events give us an appointment with who we are. in keeping with these values, europe was expected to condemn all war crimes with a firm conviction. she was expected, she's not. she tricked herself with her principles, and she killed herself. by its complicit silences, its wry speeches, its refusal to call for a ceasefire, europe has exposed to the world its duplicity and indifference to the massacre of thousands of murdered women and children. it has revived the painful memory of the peoples of the south, who understand that europe continues to stand in solidarity with the colonial and murderous adventures. by destroying gaza, it is civilization that is perishing, and it announces the end of an illusion, madam president, which will leave traces and lead to a lasting fracture between the south and the west.
- madam president, please! the slovenian government undermines the fundamental values of the european union by its actions. following the political takeover of rtv, the same is happening in other slovenian institutions, which should be independent but are not. the day before, the prime minister publicly said that the slovenian police needed to clean up the yanks. clean it up. these are terrible predictions of political purges that have no place in a democratic world. the coalition partners of the ruling quasi-liberals, the left and the socialists, who two years ago wrote lies in a politicized resolution on slovenia, are now quietly participating in the destruction of slovenia. the european institutions have already shown that they can condemn violations of the rule of law. i hope this time, just because it's a left-wing government, they won't shake their heads in the sand.
- madam speaker, please. in northern sweden, over 16 000 hour-long cars cross the border with finland every year. this is due to an exception for finland and sweden, where transport between the two countries may have different dimensions and weights. the high weights are actually essential for these transports, but according to the eu this is quite problematic. unfortunately, the eu now wants to introduce a so-called one-size-fits-all model for all the weights in force, which will cause great damage to sweden. the proposed rules would require all trucks to be unloaded and reload at the border, which neither benefits the environment nor improves trade. our forestry industry is working hard to operate in glacial areas without existing rail links. a decade of development work has resulted in longer and heavier trucks adapted to nordic conditions and industrial needs. the eu needs to think again, the eu needs to think right.
the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of workers' rights in the field of social security. according to the minister, there are currently 3,000 nurses and 1,000 doctors missing. poor working conditions also caused by long overtime are discouraging potential new doctors, while medical schools suffer from insufficient funding and capacity. volunteering overtime is often more of a declaratory activity, because the maintenance of czech healthcare simply depends on it. instead of a systemic solution, the czech government coalition came up with a proposal to extend the overtime. i am pleased that healthcare workers have taken a stand against the social pseudo solution and many have refused to work extended overtime. the minister of health was forced to resign from his original intention. again, i agree with the medical profession that it is not possible to make only cosmetic changes or to return to old, dysfunctional tracks. medical workers, like all workers, deserve decent wages and conditions, no 24-hour shifts. schools need enough funding. doctors are people, and people are not machines. let us not treat them in this way, neither in the czech republic nor elsewhere in europe.
madam president, i would like to continue with the remarks of some of my colleagues who have spoken today, also within this bloc, about the growing anti-semitism and political extremism in europe. i consider this a big problem and i wanted to use this minute to call on all the eu institutions to really not underestimate the verbal crimes that we have seen recently at the demonstrations that were triggered by the hamas attack on israel. if there's a peaceful demonstration going on, it's legitimate speech, of course, legitimate freedom of speech. but if someone is defending extremism, defending hamas' attack on free, peaceful citizens of israel, we cannot turn a blind eye to that. and here we really should, as europe, act together and try to tackle and respond to these verbal crimes. because if we close our eyes to these extremist manifestations, in the long run, europe will get away with it.
madam president, there are more and more people whose right to housing is being questioned or, in increasing cases, denied. in portugal, the ine data for august 2023 indicate an average increase of 41,4% in the home benefit over the previous year, with an average of 57% of this benefit going to interest payments. while this is happening in the lives of millions of families, the profits of banking continue to increase. almost 2 billion euros in the first half of the year in portugal, 11 million euros in profits per day. the ecb is turning the lives of millions of families into hell to defend the profits of banking and this has to stop. thousands of people are taking to the streets, including in portugal, to give voice to this problem and it is with this strength that we will continue to demand the necessary answers to this scourge. if you increase the public housing stock, if you increase wages, if you put profits to pay for increased benefits, if you reverse the increase in interest rates.
mr president, it is very important that the united states and the european union work together to promote their economic resilience and security. we must therefore align our approaches to very specific issues. we need, for example, to combat practices that distort competition, such as the circulation of products made by forced labour. the united states already has very ambitious legislation in place. it would be good if the european union also adopted its own before the end of this term. we also need to work together to combat the misuse of artificial intelligence and misinformation techniques. the european union is in the process of setting up a regulation to achieve these objectives. it would be good if the united states were in the same direction. these are problems without borders that together we can solve better.
the next generation of eu funding and the enlargement of the european union are not for tomorrow, but are bigger and more urgent challenges for the european union, each with enormous implications for the eu budget. to repay nextgenerationeu, there is an interinstitutional commitment to mobilise new own resources, with a well-defined timetable, also as instruments for european climate and fiscal justice policies. in order to create conditions for further enlargements, it is essential to define a new budgetary architecture for the european union. the current model doesn't work. the budget of europe 27 is very different from the budget of europe 35. and here, again, new own resources are key. either we cut cohesion, erasmus grants, support for smes, research, or we ask for more funding from the member states. urgent challenges - we all know the timing of democratic political decisionmaking in the european union.
this item on the agenda is closed.
the minutes of yesterday's and today's sessions will be submitted for parliament's approval at the beginning of the next session. if there are no objections, i shall immediately forward the resolutions adopted at the sitting to their addressees.
the next round will take place from 20 to 23 november in strasbourg.
i declare the european parliament's session to be suspended.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 9 november 2023.
first of all, dear colleagues, this house is shocked to hear that former member and vice-president of the european parliament, alejo vidal-quadras, was shot in spain in what can only be described as a brutal and cowardly act of violence. we trust that the spanish authorities are doing everything within their power to bring the perpetrators to justice. our full solidarity goes out to mr vidal-quadras and we wish him a full and speedy recovery. (applause) dear colleagues, 9 days ago, 22-year-old biomedical engineering student giulia cecchettin was reported missing. last saturday, her lifeless body was found butchered near lake barcis in the north-east of italy. giulia cecchettin, ashling murphy, bernice cassar, paulina dembska and many, many more: these are some of the many examples of abuse and murder of women in europe simply for being women. it is appalling, it is terrible and it is completely unacceptable. so let us reiterate: we need proper protection frameworks. we need more convictions of those who prey on females. we need to end the remaining institutional blindness to this epidemic upon women. there are no more excuses. it is already too late. no words of comfort can ever bring a mother, a daughter or a sister back. but justice and accountability is a small step for those they leave behind. we must do more for women, so on the international day for the elimination of violence against women, let us recommit ourselves to do everything possible to prevent violence against women and girls in europe and beyond. and the european parliament will discuss what it can do to address this issue in this chamber on thursday. (applause) dear colleagues, today also marks international children’s day. for too many children, the world is a darker place than it should be. too many children have been forced to grow up too quickly. too many children know what it is like to go to sleep hungry. too few children remember what the inside of a classroom looks like. too many children have been torn away from their families and their childhoods. too many children have become victims who will never grow up at all. the european parliament has always stood for humanity, and i want to use this platform today to give them and all those fighting on their behalf – many of whom are in this chamber and whom i thank – home and hope in a better tomorrow, in a world where light is shone even in the darkest of places, a world where children are allowed simply to be children. that is why we will continue to use every tool available to us to help bring back the many thousands of ukrainian children who have been forcibly removed by russia from their homes. this is why we will use every tool we can to advocate their return, why it is important to them and to their loved ones to know that they are not forgotten. in conflict, in war, in aggression or acts of terror it is too often innocent children who are forced to pay the ultimate price. on behalf of the european parliament i visited the horrors of kfar azza in israel, where children were mutilated, tortured and taken. i met with parents and families of those kidnapped. forty-four days later, there are still too many children in the clutches of hamas, hidden in gaza’s tunnels. we must help to bring them home – all of them. and i am hopeful that we will soon see more progress on this front. (applause)as the mother of one of the children taken said, ‘in a competition of pain there is no winner’. children should be with their families. children should be able to have a chance at a childhood without fear, without terror. when i met – and a lot of you met them too – 11-year-old fatima and mohammed, palestinians who lost countless relatives and family members in gaza, i told them that even in the fog of war, children and the innocent must be protected. too many have died. too many families have been torn apart. the horror of parents writing the names of their children on their limbs in case they are killed is indescribable. where schools and homes once stood, we now have rubble. when there was hope, there is now pain. how will all these children grow up? will they even have a chance at that? will we be able to convince them of the value of hope over extremism? but our hearts must be big enough to care for all these children, all these innocent victims, and our minds must become big enough to give them hope of a real chance of a life of peace. in the immediate term, we must do more to address the humanitarian catastrophe in gaza. vital aid must be able to get in. innocent lives must be saved. humanity must come first. and we have a role to play – europe has a role to play. we must be able to end this. we can do that. dear colleagues, it is also my sad duty to inform you of the death of karel schwarzenberg: a great european and a brilliant czech statesman. karl schwarzenberg needs no introduction: as twice foreign minister of a post-cold-war czech republic and one of former president vaclav havel’s closest advisers, he dedicated his life to public service and to bridging political divides. his work was central in building a new democratic foundation for the modern day czech republic. his legacy is one of endless struggle for peace, the construction of europe and the democratic values that underpin our way of life. and for that he will always be remembered. (applause)
the minutes and the texts adopted at the sittings of 8 and 9 november are available. are there any comments? i see that is not the case, so the minutes are approved.
the competent authorities of poland have notified me of the election of witold pahl and włodzimierz witold karpiński to the european parliament, replacing bartosz arłukowicz and krzysztof hetman respectively with effect from 16 november 2023. i wish to welcome our new colleagues and recall that they take their seats in parliament and on its bodies in full enjoyment of their rights, pending the verification of their credentials.
the s&d, renew europe, ecr and id groups have notified me of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees and delegations. these decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and take effect on the date of this announcement.
i would like to announce that, pursuant to rule 47(2), i have declared admissible a proposal for a union act on the need to protect families, businesses and self-employed persons from the rise in fuel prices in europe. the proposal was submitted by jorge buxadé villalba and three other members. it is referred to the econ committee, as committee responsible, and to the itre committee, for opinion.
in relation to the decisions by several committees to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) announced at the opening of the session on wednesday 8 november, i have received no requests for a vote in parliament by members or a political group or groups reaching at least the medium threshold. the committees may therefore start the negotiations.
several committees have decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1). the reports which constitute the mandates for the negotiations are available on the plenary web page, and their titles will be published in the minutes of the sitting. pursuant to rule 71(2), members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold may request in writing by tomorrow, 21 november, at midnight, that the decisions be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in parliament is made before the deadline, the committees may start the negotiations.
i’d like to inform you that, together with the president of the council, i shall on wednesday sign 11 acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with rule 79. the titles of the acts will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
we now come to the order of business. the final draft agenda as adopted by the conference of presidents on 16 november pursuant to rule 157 has been distributed. with the agreement of the political groups, i wish to put to the house the following proposal for a change to the final draft agenda: the vote on the report by ms strik on ‘negotiations on a status agreement on operational activities carried out by frontex in mauritania’, currently planned for thursday, is moved to wednesday’s votes. if there are no objections, this change is approved. we now move to the changes requested by political groups, starting with tuesday. the ecr group has requested that council and commission statements on ‘hostile states’ instrumentalisation of migrants against eu member states’ be added as the sixth item in the afternoon before the short presentations. as a consequence, the sitting would be extended to 23.00. i give the floor to pirkko ruohonen-lerner to move the request on behalf of the ecr group.
i'm here for the ecr team. mr president, it is important that things are spoken of under the right names. in recent weeks, russia has launched a hybrid operation against finland. the number of young men with the most insufficient documents has been increasingly flooding across the finnish-russian border, including somalis, syrians, yemenis and iraqis. there are very strong indications that this is a facilitated entry by the russian authorities and not a spontaneous asylum application. president von der leyen also spoke of russia's involvement in the process of empowering migrants. the alternative title of the demar group omits what is actually happening at the border. the hands of finnish border guards shall not be tied while they defend the border. in response to the situation, the finnish government has decided to close part of the border crossing points. it's possible that the entire eastern border, 1,300 kilometers, will have to be closed.
i have received an alternative proposal from the s&d group, and i give the floor to eero heinäluoma to present it.
ms ruohonen-lerner, do you agree with the s&d’s alternative proposal?
on behalf of the ecr group. – no, madam president.
ok. so we will put the initial request by the ecr group to the vote by roll call. (parliament rejected the ecr group’s request)we will now vote on the alternative proposal by the s&d group, if you would like to keep the item on the agenda, mr heinäluoma? i see you would, so we will put the alternative proposal of the s&d group to a vote. (parliament approved the s&d group’s proposal)therefore we will have the sitting extended until 23.00 tomorrow. for wednesday, the left group has requested that the debate on the council and commission statements on ‘the humanitarian situation in gaza, the need for the release of hostages and for an immediate humanitarian truce leading to a ceasefire and the prospects for peace and security in the middle east’ be wound up with a resolution. i give the floor to manon aubry to move the request on behalf of the left group.
so i put the request of the left group to a vote by roll call. (parliament rejected the request)so the agenda remains unchanged.
for thursday, the s&d group has requested that the vote on the report by mr ruiz devesa and mr simon on ‘the european elections 2024’ be postponed to the next part-session. i give the floor to mr ruiz devesa to move the request on behalf of the s&d group.
would any colleague like to speak against? i see that is not the case. so we vote on this by show of hands. (parliament approved the request)the order of business is thus established. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments.)
the next item is the joint debate on:– the commission statement on ‘children first – strengthening the child guarantee, two years on from its adoption’ (2023/2811(rsp)); and– the report by sandra pereira, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on reducing inequalities and promoting social inclusion in times of crisis for children and their families (2023/2066(ini)) (a9-0360/2023).
the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of workers' rights and the right to a fair trial. child poverty is a multidimensional phenomenon arising from the poverty of families and therefore requires a multidimensional response which necessarily involves increasing employment and job security, enhancing associated incomes and investments in public services. for children to have rights, parents must have rights. to accompany the growth of children is not only a right of parents, it is a right of children. the rights of children cannot be ignored without mentioning the wages, working hours and stability of parents' employment, which contribute to the elimination of job insecurity, the deregulation of working hours, underpaid work, low wages, wage discrimination, and the high costs of housing, transport, daycare, education and health care, which consume a considerable portion of household income. it is up to the states to formulate universal and structural policies to ensure the integral development of children, providing the resources and instruments to frame the multiple responses that children, their parents or their families need to meet this design. the report which we are voting on tomorrow proposes a number of measures which, if implemented by the member states, will have an impact on the fight against child and family poverty. in this respect, we advocate: increased investment in public, health or education services, universal, public and quality, which ensure that children and their families in their diversity meet their needs; increased public and universal provision of daycare and pre-school education services; the link between the realisation of children's rights and the realisation of their parents' rights, including through the defence of fair and equal pay for work and access to parental rights, including nursing; the development of tools and practices to combat multiple discrimination and violence against children; the defence of the right to play as a structural measure for the integral development of children. the first years of life have a decisive impact on the integral development of children, as they develop essential skills in these early years. we have long drawn attention to the importance of daycare and the need for the provision of child and family support equipment as a condition for integral development from an early age and the link between the personal and emotional life of families and work. in addition to being universally free, we understand that access to daycare must go far beyond a mere social response, because it must also, or above all, ensure a quality educational response that promotes the best education for all children, and therefore regardless of their economic and social context in families, in the light of the full and equitable enjoyment of the right to education constitutionally enshrined in countries like mine. it is also essential that all children from three years of age have free access to pre-school. education systems at all levels should promote a universal culture focused on the integral development of individuals. madam president, madam commissioner, and because today is the universal day of children's rights, i also want to speak about children in the context of war. according to save the children, more than 4,630 palestinian children have been killed by israeli forces in the past month, more than the total number of children killed in all conflicts in the world since 2019. in order to keep the number of victims from getting bigger, to keep no more children from dying at the hands of israeli atrocities, a ceasefire must be in effect. children have the right to grow up and live in peace. let us therefore mobilize ourselves to end all wars and to establish relations of peace, friendship and cooperation among all peoples. finally, i want to thank you for your cooperation... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker)
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, once again, we thank you for your support for the european child guarantee. we take note of your calls for strong governance and adequate funding. there were several questions and i will try to reply to a few of them. madam jongerius and mr andrews ask about how to further invest in children. so, we agree that we have to further invest in early childhood education and care and in the meals for children in schools. it was already done with the esf+, but i have to tell you, member states should do more. madam nicholsonová – she is not here anymore – on roma children. they have been direct beneficiaries of the pilot projects under the child guarantee preparatory action in croatia and bulgaria, and commissioner schmit and i, visited one such site and witnessed this on the ground. but again, we need more. once again, i must draw attention to the fact that primary responsibility for the implementation of the child guarantee lies with member states. if you remember at the porto summit, we committed to lifting at least 5 million children out of poverty by 2030, and we are still far from that. i agree with you that more decisive actions are needed to move into this direction and to reverse these negative trends. we are committed to continuing to work with the european parliament on advancing the fight against poverty and we will closely follow up on your report. the world of tomorrow, all of us know, is likely to be very different from the world we know today. the green and digital transitions require that today’s children are well equipped and have equal opportunities to thrive in the years to come. demographics change, our third transition is bringing challenges and opportunities for all generations and, as all of us know, our societies will become longevity societies – 50% of children who are born now may reach the age of 90 or 95. cycles of poverty and disadvantage start early on, and will impact our lifestyles and societies throughout the entire lifecycle. we therefore need to ensure an equal start in life for present and future generations, in an inclusive society where each voice is heard. this is why we are putting so much emphasis on child participation in policymaking. as all of us know and would agree, children are part of the solution. the universal protection of children’s rights is an increasing reality on the ground. yet, what is hardly won can be easily lost. our collective work will only be done when we have successfully put an end to child poverty and have social inclusion for all children. we need to make sure that intergenerational solidarity and fairness become a reality of our everyday work; that children can enjoy the rights they have now and their rights as future generations. my colleague, commissioner schmit and i, look forward to continuing to work with you on this file, and i hope that we can move the world on in this and i want to thank you once again for this interest in this on the international day on the rights of children.
the commission is also concerned about the need to ensure that the children are fully developed as human beings, ready to transform the world. the words of the rulers on a beautiful subject, which has the potential to melt the most heartbreaking, must be linked to political decisions and can never be blown up. the report we vote on tomorrow has a long way to go. it is essential to replace the so-called economic governance of the european union with a coordination of public policies that puts children and their families in the forefront of the right accounts drawn up, which some have little. the european semester and the country-by-country recommendations, as instruments that help to check the capacity of member states to invest in universal and quality public services, have contributed to the deterioration of the living conditions of children, particularly those at greater risk of poverty. in my country, portugal, this is evident by the current situation of the national health system, with emergency closures, particularly in pediatrics, or in public schools, with an alarming number of pupils without teachers in at least one discipline or with the scarcity of response from public kindergartens. we cannot accept the path of privatisation, with the complicity of the commission and national governments, in various strategic and public interest sectors. the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for a new directive on the protection of workers' rights and the rights of workers. i would like to conclude by thanking the rapporteur, mr shumaru, his assistants, the secretariat of the committee on employment and social affairs and the various political groups, and of course my team, mr luis capucha pereira, mr afonso marques and mrs sofia silva.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, the number of deaths due to climate change or serious damage to property and nature is increasing every year. there's no planet b, but we still don't do enough for the planet we have. europe leads, but it cannot do alone what is necessary to save the planet. we have to demand more from other economies, like india, china or the united states, without historical relativism or concessions. we've been swirling between floods and periods of drought, storms and heat waves. we have successively broken the record for the hottest year since records were set and greenhouse gas emissions have already raised global temperatures by about a degree. the arctic, a key indicator of our climate, may no longer have ice in the summers by the end of the 2030s. the consequences are devastating: our health or the safety of our goods, but also the realities we have taken on here in europe, such as food in supermarkets or the continuous availability of drinking water throughout europe. the european union's commitment to climate is undeniable, but other countries and geographies must do their part. india is now the most populous country in the world and therefore has to accelerate its transition. and for that we need international commitments. but we also need conditions for the development and implementation of renewable energy, the global goal of which must be achieved in dubai, but also for clean technologies that are emerging in europe and which we have a duty to support. or, moreover, to substantially improve the public transport network which will allow us less polluting alternatives. the fight against climate change goes through this, not through the destruction of works of art or media figures without any consequence. what is being asked is very clear: that we continue to lead the way in ambition and in the implementation of a new, more sustainable, healthier economic model, while demanding that other countries accelerate the pace.
with the record of extreme events in recent years, the european union must act to prevent risks to human health and the environment. the next cop 28 includes health as a central theme of the agenda for the first time. it is an opportunity to strengthen climate action promoting health and sustainable food systems. more funding is urgently needed to achieve the objectives set out in the paris agreement. according to the lancet countdown report, the climate emergency will have devastating consequences for the health of the population. environmental priorities for a healthy and prosperous future were therefore set, including the importance of leading by example and investing in the transition from zero-carbon systems. the european union has been working to build a sustainable future while protecting global health. when the industry says that's not possible, it's practicing healthwashing. it is necessary to combat these practices with decisions based on scientific evidence. 2024 will be a pivotal year for the european union as an agent of the climate transition. it is urgent to ensure a sustainable multi-sectoral transition, protecting the health of the planet and people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this initiative which we are discussing today is a crucial step in our ongoing fight against climate change. the need for a union certification framework for carbon removal is in line with the objectives of the paris agreement and our commitment to achieve collective climate neutrality by 2050. in fact, with the speed at which we are reducing emissions, without a significant contribution from carbon removal neither will europe achieve climate neutrality by 2050, nor will the planet be able to achieve the goals of the paris agreement. the international panel on climate change has made it clear that drastic and immediate reductions in greenhouse gas emissions are essential. however, to effectively limit global warming to 1.5 or 2 degrees, a significant increase in carbon removal activities is needed and this is particularly true for sectors such as agriculture, aviation, shipping and industrial processes where the european union needs to achieve significant levels of carbon removal. and that is how we sought to provide credibility, predictability, trust and effective market conditions for both carbon sequestration techniques in agricultural and forestry practice, and the development and implementation of innovative methods such as bioenergy with carbon capture and storage or direct carbon capture from the air and corresponding storage. these methods need to grow exponentially. the path to climate neutrality is not a single solution, whether it be reduction or specific removal technology. we need a portfolio of solutions that work at the same time and contribute to that goal. the proposal for a regulation aims to develop a voluntary union certification framework for carbon removal, encouraging the adoption of high-quality carbon removal activities while respecting biodiversity and zero pollution targets. this framework will not only support the development of carbon removal activities in the union but also ensure that they result in a net carbon removal benefit, avoiding greenwashing. it is designed to encourage carbon removal activities that generate benefits for biodiversity, thereby promoting the nature restoration objectives set out in union legislation. to support operators willing to increase carbon removal sustainably, the framework will consider the various types of carbon removal activity and their specificities and related environmental impacts, but stability and persistence of carbon storage are paramount. the validity of certified carbon removals will therefore also depend on the expected storage duration and the associated reversal risks. finally, sustainability is at the heart of the picture. carbon removal activities should have a neutral impact or generate benefits for sustainability objectives, including climate change mitigation and adaptation, the protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems, the sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources, the transition to a circular economy and pollution prevention and control. in conclusion, the proposed union certification framework for carbon removal is a vision for a more sustainable future, balancing the urgent need to increase carbon removal with the need to maintain environmental integrity and promote sustainability.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to thank the commissioner for his comments on this report and first of all i would like to thank the entire negotiating team, the political groups and in particular the assistants and advisers who were instrumental in the outcome of this process. and the message i would also like to convey or leave is that we have been able to move from very different political situations and come to a consensus or compromise solution. and as this house is the home of commitment, i believe we're on the right track. but i also think it is important that we do not deviate from the primary objective of passing this legislation. and while there are some requests that, for political reasons, cannot be fully met, i believe this is a first step and this is the first legislation in the world for carbon credits certification, which i believe will give momentum and also give integrity to the carbon credits market. i ended up with this, and this was one of our concerns: i think it's a very relevant dossier for agriculture and other dimensions of the economic sectors, but particularly for these sectors, and i wanted to tell you that what has always guided our participation and commitment in this process regarding agriculture in particular was something i heard about relatively recently: one day we may need a psychologist, a police officer, a nurse, but we need a farmer three times a day, and so i think with this basic idea, that's how we got to negotiate and not forget the importance of this file. and therefore i think it was important that we maintain this political cohesion for the adoption of this report.
mr president, once again we want to bring to the debate the serious housing situation in portugal. today we express our solidarity with more than a million families in portugal who are facing the brutal increase in household benefits. we therefore appreciate the protest that the activists of the door to door, home for all movement organized last wednesday in brussels in front of the european parliament, demanding that the policies of the european union which directly impact on housing be reversed, starting from the very beginning by lowering interest rates, which guarantee millions of dollars in profits to banks from the payment of housing loans, while increasingly families are unable to pay their housing bills. lowering interest rates, regulating rent, banning evictions without a decent housing alternative, creating and increasing the public housing park are some of the urgent measures they have advocated. as we said at the protest, you can count on us to reject the current policies that deprive people of this constitutional right and to fight for the right to housing for all.
madam president, the unsustainable use of pesticides is the cause of serious environmental, public health and food safety problems. in order to progressively reduce the incorporation of these compounds into agricultural activity, it is important to implement the precautionary principle with regard to pesticides and other agrochemicals in view of the harmful impact of pesticide use on workers' and populations' health. we support the need to reconcile production activities with environmental quality and the socioeconomic enhancement of small and mediumsized farmers. the intensive and superintensive model of monoculture promoted by the european union is contrary to these principles, exacerbating environmental and socioeconomic problems and highlighting the need for another development model based on the enhancement of national production and food sovereignty. the promotion of greener and more sustainable practices must be supported so that small and medium-sized farming does not disappear, by promoting ancestral practices and traditional and indigenous species and promoting rural land use, while also contributing to the defence of more and better public services in the vicinity.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in carbon dioxide emissions is a threat to our environment, it is a threat to the good quality of the air we breathe, it is a threat to our health. and heavy-duty vehicles account for more than a quarter of the greenhouse gas emissions from the road transport sector in the european union. this is why this review is essential for innovative solutions that reduce threats to the heavy-duty vehicle sector in order to ensure a cleaner and more sustainable future for europeans. at the beginning of 2023 we were progressive, we passed the regulation that from 2035 onwards all new cars in the european union will be sold with zero emissions, and during this plenary session the progressive majority in this house was able to make history by passing the regulation that provides for a 90% reduction in emissions by 2040 for heavy vehicles. because the goal is ambitious, but we won't overcome the climate emergency without ambition.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank all the political groups and all the assistance provided by the advisors and the assistants of the teams for this very good result on such an important file. in light of that, i would like to ask the referral back to the committee for interinstitutional negotiations according to rule 59(4).
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the consumption of europeans is growing steadily and with it the production of packaging is increasing. in the european union, half a kilogram of waste is generated on average per person per day. these packaging are often bulky and unsustainable and have caused a serious impact on our environment. we must therefore find solutions that are innovative and reusable, that minimize the environmental impact of our consumer habits, such as creating a framework for the recovery of reused packaging, and also invest in materials that are alternative but also more sustainable than the use of plastic, because only with the cooperation of all, consumers, industry, member states and their representatives, will we achieve a real paradigm shift. by reducing the use of packaging, especially plastic, we are contributing to a more sustainable, healthier environment.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy is also calling on the commission to adopt a proposal for a council regulation (eec) on the conclusion of the agreement between the european economic community and the european economic community on the conclusion of the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of moldova on the one hand, and the republic of moldova on the other. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for econ i begin by stressing that the vast majority of the proposals of the conference on the future of europe for the economic area can be implemented within the framework of the current treaties. the current treaties should continue to be exploited in their entirety during this or any future exercise in treaty review. these two processes must be parallel. the new enlargements obviously require institutional and budgetary reforms, but we cannot allow key reforms in the european union to go unreported in the coming years under the pretext of a revision of the treaties. the reform of economic governance, taxation and the mandate of the ecb are three key areas. the ecb should have a clearer definition of price stability and a reinforcement of its secondary mandate. in economic governance, the decision-making process, instruments and institutions must be based on the community method. in taxation, the priority is to prevent the systematic use of national vetoes, gradually moving towards a qualified majority.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, dear honourable members, i was listening carefully the whole afternoon. this was a very interesting debate, and as executive vice-president šefčovič already underlined, i would like to thank parliament and the co-rapporteurs. mr verhofstadt, mr simon, madam bischoff, mr freund, mr scholz, i would like to thank all of you for this report and for the impressive work you have done in the past year. the commission is ready to fully play its role, as already said. as regards this parliament’s proposal for treaty changes, it will be first and foremost for the council and the european council to follow up on parliament’s resolution. let me use this occasion to refer back to the conference on the future of europe, which i had the honour of co-chairing jointly with guy verhofstadt, one of the co-rapporteurs on this important report, and with the presidency of the council. the conference was a unique process involving citizens in policymaking. it produced valuable and meaningful results. the european parliament, the council and the commission have committed to following up effectively on the conclusions of the conference, each within the remit of their competences and in accordance with the treaties. your report is one of the important responses to the final proposals of the conference of the future of europe. beyond its content and proposals to change our founding treaties, this report shows that all institutions are doing their part in following up upon the proposals from the conference. as already said, the commission stands ready to fully play its institutional role in the procedure set out in the treaty. from the outset, i want to assure you of the commission’s full commitment to play an active role in the process. the commission is also committed to continuing to follow up to the conference, as shown in our commission’s work programme for 2023 and for 2024, largely based on initiatives that are directly or indirectly linked to the conference, also by integrating citizens panels as a new form of engaging citizens in our policymaking. as we prepare for the challenges ahead, we will remain inspired by this approach.
rapporteur. – mr president, most of the remarks have been made about unanimity, so i presume that all the rest of the proposals are then okay, because there were no remarks, nearly, on all the other topics that were in the report. so, that is a good sign. but on unanimity, it is a little bit strange that this criticism comes from the polish side, on the abolishment of unanimity, because poland knows what damage unanimity can do. your country even disappeared for decades because of the unanimity that existed in the polish parliament. that completely undermined the existing of the polish state. so, you will be the first in fact to defend the end of unanimity. i remember very well – if you allow me, mr president – the discussions on the lisbon treaty with president kaczyński and prime minister kaczyński at the time. they were not very pleased with the outcome of the lisbon treaty, certainly not with the whole issue about the 55/65 qualified majority rule. they were against. what we do here in the proposal is we make the position of small- and medium-sized member states, and especially of a big member state like poland, stronger in the proposal, by saying that you need, in the future, two-thirds of the member states to approve by qualified majority a proposal, and to lower the 65%, what is in fact a veto for france and germany, to 50%. i am pretty sure that if that was on the table at the moment of the lisbon treaty that both president kaczyński and prime minister kaczyński would be victorious and would be happy with such a proposal. so, maybe you have to reconsider your own attitude in the past a little bit before saying ‘no’ to this important proposal of the european parliament.
mr saryusz-wolski, i am calling you because of the concept of lie to order. we should not blame each other for this, it is unparliamentary.
rapporteur. – mr president, vice-president, council, having listened carefully to this debate, i would say that i am proud to be part of this report’s working structures and team in this house. that means that i remind all of us, all of you, that the founding document of the integration process was and is the manifesto of ventotene. when it had been written in the darkest times of the european history, when spinelli and others thought about the question of how we would organise the co-existence and co-living in friendship, in peace, of citizens who shot each other. i think we should always remind ourselves of this antifascist founding consensus of the european integration process. yes, today we have to face that changes to the treaties are necessary. the social reality – you have described it from the varied points – is under danger because there are neoliberal policies which are worrying the citizens in a lot of member states. and we have to think, has an internal market foreign policy interest? has an internal market interest in struggling against the climate change to keep the biodiversity alive? etc. and these are the challenges we have to face. therefore, the citizens in the conference on the future of europe expressed a strong will in their recommendations to change the treaties in their interests. so we have to deliver to the citizens to make the european union working for their interests and not from national interests. it is not any longer only the nations and the states who are playing a role. the citizens have to take part in the decision-making, and therefore we need to open the treaties and change them in that direction.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 22 november 2023. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 171.
it's in writing. the afco report proposes 267 amendments in several dozen areas to both the treaties on the european union and the functioning of the european union. among them, the resignation of the veto in key areas. the proposed amendments also cover divided areas, significantly extending community jurisdiction over the competences of the member states. the same forces that propose changes have in recent years broken the treaties, replacing the culture of consensus with force, even in areas where brussels has no competence. the ecr group and i have personally argued for years that maintaining consensus decision-making in foreign policy and security is good for the community. for years, the leaders of the union and the theoretically strongest capitals have been wrong in their assessments and have been pursuing the wrong policies towards russia and china. they made damaging decisions on this issue, such as the construction of the northern gas pipeline. another example of enforcement was the influence of germany and france on ukrainian policy after the annexation of crimea through the so-called normandy format. the consensus formula allows for a common vision of the cfsp and, consequently, for eu unity. i think that in the face of global challenges, the eu must affirm the unity of the west, avoiding internal aggressive ideological clashes. that's why i strongly reject the proposed project. i am convinced that most of my countrymen and citizens of other member states disagree.
in writing. the treaties must certainly be adapted to the realities of today. first, the absurdity of making the european parliament the only parliament in the world without the right to legislative initiative, even though it is the most representative institution for european citizens, should be corrected. unfortunately, the proposal is far from the form that would increase democracy in the eu, as its citizens wish. i also believe that european citizens should have been consulted by referendum in each country and then we should have voted here on amending the treaties. my country has been suffering for 12 years that it is not in schengen because of one man - the representative of austria in the council! i should be opposed to unanimity, but unfortunately the text proposed is causing other inequities and i will vote against it.
written. the report on the revision of the eu treaties suggests that the negotiations on environmental and biodiversity issues and climate change should be transferred to the exclusive competence of the eu. in other words, in the future the member states would have no independent competence in these areas. in addition to the eu's shared competence, the following areas are currently under the exclusive discretion of the member states: public health (especially crossborder healthcare and sexual and reproductive health), population protection, industry and education. in addition, the existing shared competence should be further developed in the fields of energy, external affairs, external security and defence, foreign policy and cross-border infrastructure. i think that the eu should no longer be given any national decision-making powers. rather, the powers should be restored to the member states. the aim of this radical report is to create a superpower in the eu, with independent member states subjugated to the eu. the report also presents a number of problems with the proposals for increasing the number of majority decisions, which means abandoning the unanimity requirement. parliament also wants full legislative initiative. the commission would be re-designated as the european implementing authority. this body of not more than 15 members would be constituted according to the political preferences of its chairman. today, every country has the right to appoint its own commissioner. i also consider it special the proposal that the euro should become the single currency of the whole union. many eu countries currently have their own national currency. i am very surprised at the speed with which the amendments to the treaties are being made. the union fanatics hope that the amendments to the treaty will come into force before the eu elections. i hope that this proposal, which is detrimental to the sovereignty of the national states, will not succeed in the council.
in writing. the demands of citizens at the conference on the future of europe were clear the eu must become more social, climate-friendly and inclusive! the european parliament urges the conclusions to be implemented as soon as possible and has drawn up detailed proposals to the treaty amendments council. the report sets out key priorities for the greens/efa group, such as the climate neutrality clause for each new measure, the inclusion of environmental crime and gender-based violence in the eu criminal register and strengthening the rule of law, fundamental rights, values and transparency. we also support shared healthcare skills and universal access to sexual and reproductive health for all. the principle of unanimity must also finally be abandoned with the explicit exception of security and defence policy.
the epp group and renew europe group have sent the president decisions on the change of appointments to the committees. these decisions shall be incorporated into the minutes of today's meeting and shall enter into force on the day of that announcement.
the next item on the agenda is the report by siegfried mureşan and nils ušakovs on behalf of the european parliament's delegation to the committee on budgetary control on the council's position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2024 (11565/2023 c9-0422/2023 2023/0264(bud)) (a9-0362/2023).
president of the committee on budgets. president. - the next item is the report (doc. it's a good deal in difficult and uncertain times. it gives the council and parliament the best solution within the limits of the current budgetary framework. the adjustments made by the council and parliament during the conciliation process to the commission proposal meet the current challenges. let us not forget: these challenges are very real. there are two wars raging on our external borders at this very moment. the commission has therefore provided extensive additional resources for humanitarian assistance. we have also provided additional funding for erasmus+, the transport infrastructure investment programme (cef transport) and the horizon r & d programme. these are meaningful programmes with proven added value for the whole union. there are also some smaller increases. i refer, for example, to the additional amounts for the fight against anti-semitism, which unfortunately are still appearing in our cities. the co-rapporters will of course explain the agreement in more detail. the budget for next year was drafted in the current multiannual financial framework, a framework that was drafted after covid but before the russian aggression against ukraine. in the meantime, everyone is waiting for a review that should give more room to give the eu the necessary armament for the rest of the period of this fpmi, i.e. until the end of 2027. we are therefore looking forward to the negotiations in the council. parliament has done its homework. it is the council that is holding the case and we hope that this will change soon. following agreement on that review, the budget for 2024 will be amended. we must show as the european union that we can make a quick and efficient change. i therefore expect the adjustments to be implemented in early spring 2024.
rapporteur. – mr president, this week – tomorrow, specifically – the european parliament will vote in favour of the budget of the european union for 2024. the first and most important signal that we are herewith giving to the citizens of europe, to enterprises, to regions, is the funding from the european union for next year is safe. we have a budget. funding will be there for all those in need. the funding is safe and the funding is sufficient for our primary needs. i can also say that we have together, as a united parliament, managed in negotiations with the council and the commission to make sure that the eu programmes are properly funded. we have managed to increase the allocations to the european research programme, to the infrastructure programme, more erasmus scholarships for european students. we have managed to allocate more resources for young farmers, more resources to better protect our borders, to protect our immediate neighbourhood, to protect the environment. a total of eur 807 million of increased allocations exactly to the areas needed. and to make sure that the money from the european union budget is well spent, we are also strengthening the european public prosecutor’s office to make sure that irregularities and fraud – which exist but which are, of course, an exception and not a significant phenomenon – we should make sure that they are tackled so that citizens in europe know that eu money is well spent. of course, these negotiations took place in a difficult context, in a context in which we see people expect more from the european union. whenever there is a crisis, the european union should play an active role, should help. it does, but in order to be effective in doing this, it needs a proper budget. and this is why we have to adjust our seven-year multiannual financial framework to make sure that, up to 2027, we can further support our economy, we can better protect our borders, we can do what we need on security and defence. because we will have to do more, faster and for a longer period of time. and we should make sure that we provide sustainable funding for ukraine up to 2027. this is why we, as a parliament, believe that the revision of the multiannual financial framework is so much needed. parliament has a strong position on this. we urge the council to also come to a position and to the negotiating table as soon as possible, so that we can give, also beyond 2024, predictability. we have a good budget for 2024, but we need to work also on the future. in the end, i would like to thank colleagues from the european parliament. the good achievement on parliament’s side was only possible because we were united. many thanks to all my shadow rapporteurs, to all colleagues who stayed up late at night in the budget reconciliation and to secure this good result. thank you, commissioner hahn, to you and to your team from the commission, and many thanks to the council presidency. it’s a good common success of european institutions.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, commissioner hahn, ladies and gentlemen, i am honoured to be present at the debate in parliament today on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2024. i want to begin by conveying the council's satisfaction that we have been able to reach an agreement in the conciliation committee after long and intense discussions during the night of 10-11 november, which is a few days before the end of the conciliation period, breaking the pattern of the past few years. the positive outcome of the negotiations shows that our three institutions are able to work effectively in a spirit of mutual understanding and loyal cooperation. together we have worked hard to find a solution that will prepare the union for the challenges of the fourth year of the multiannual financial framework. the negotiated budget for 2024 meets our priorities, including the latest geopolitical developments, fulfils our legal obligations and provides support for important actions for european citizens. as for the meetings we have held in recent months, both officials and informal contacts, i want to highlight the positive atmosphere that has always reigned in all our conversations. we have been willing to engage constructively to reach an agreement, to rethink the debate on shared interests and to find solutions. i am pleased to inform you that the joint text agreed in the conciliation committee was formally adopted by the council yesterday, 20 november, and we hope that the european parliament can also approve it. the general budget for the financial year 2024 may thus be adopted within the time limits provided for in the treaty to allow for an orderly start to 2024. i would like to thank the president of the european parliament's committee on budgets, mr johan van overtveldt, the rapporteurs siegfried mureșan and mr nils ušakovs, and their teams for their good cooperation over the past few weeks and months. i also want to extend my thanks to all members of the european parliament who have contributed to ensuring the outcome of the conciliation. and i want to thank commissioner hahn and his entire team in particular for the way they have facilitated our negotiations, seeking solutions that would allow us to reach an agreement.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, dear rapporteurs, dear state secretary, it may come as no surprise that i very much welcome the agreement on the european union annual budget, which was reached by the conciliation committee in the early hours of saturday 11 november. i was pleased to see parliament and council working together, reaching a compromise on the union budget for 2024. due to the joint effort, the agreement was reached well before the conciliation deadline, as was already highlighted several times and i suppose it will be highlighted again several times. by the way, it was the first time, i think, since 2017. if i’m not wrong, also mureşan was rapporteur in 2017. so, i think this is a kind of bar which is important for future rapporteurs. this year was nevertheless not ‘business as usual’ and, in such unprecedented times, it was more than ever important to put aside our differences and work together on reaching our shared goals and priorities. like each year, the initial positions were quite far apart and not easy to reconcile. i therefore appreciate that all parties acted responsibly and made the necessary compromises to have a solid agreement on time, even if it is clear that we will need to come back to this as soon as the mff mid-term revision is agreed. so, i would like to thank the european parliament, especially the committee on budgets and all specialised committees, for the intensive work on the commission’s proposal for the draft budget 2024. on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank in particular the chair, mr van overtveldt and the two rapporteurs, mr mureşan and mr ušakovs, for their cooperation. i would also like to thank the spanish presidency and state secretariat, ms samblás and her team, for their tough but constructive approach during the negotiations. it is not in my speaking, but i would like to include in my thanks also my own team, on top our director-general stéphanie riso. i think they all did an excellent job so that we could indeed reach a very good outcome. this has demonstrated that the institutions can work towards a compromise for the benefit of the european union and its citizens. and for this, again, i applaud the negotiators and their teams. but let me now go through a few details on the agreement. the overall level of commitment appropriations in the 2024 budget is set at eur 189.4 billion. the overall level of payment appropriations in the 2024 budget is set at eur 142.6 billion. the budget will provide a significant amount of reinforcements for the key programmes and priorities of the parliament, like horizon europe and erasmus+. at the same time, the agreed budget meets important concerns of the council by keeping some margins and availabilities for unforeseen events, something which should, by the way, guide us for the forthcoming mff review negotiations. the rapporteurs have already explained the targeted reinforcements for parliament’s priorities concentrated on a limited number of issues to maximise the effectiveness of our funding. once adopted, the annual budget 2024 allows the union to mobilise significant funds to address the most urgent consequences of the crisis in the middle east through funding in the union and in the southern and eastern neighbourhood, including migration, as well as a significant reinforcement of humanitarian aid. the budget will also support the ongoing economic recovery and create jobs, while strengthening europe’s strategic autonomy. the budget 2024 will direct funds to where they can make the greatest difference, in line with the most crucial needs of the member states and the union’s partners around the world. looking forward, it is clear that the swift agreement on the mff revision is urgently needed to provide the necessary resources for crucial new needs and to keep adequate room for manoeuvre to respond to the consequences of russia’s war of aggression on ukraine, the continued migratory pressure and eu response to natural disasters and global competition. again, i count on our joint efforts to make this work as soon as possible. the commission will propose a draft amending budget as soon as the revision of the mff regulation is agreed with a view to aligning the 2024 budget to the revised regulation.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a compliment to the presidency of the council, we all know that the european union's budget is small: about 1% of the eu's gdp, and in 2024 it will be about 189 billion euros. but it is essential for our competitiveness, for our productivity, for the cohesion of the territory, for our internal solidarity and external solidarity. i would like to thank our rapporteurs, and in particular my colleague siegfried mureşan, for having achieved, in the face of constraints in the multiannual financial framework, significant increases in european parliament's priorities such as horizon europe, the research programme, support for young farmers with an additional eur 20 million, and also support for erasmus+, with an additional eur 60 million, and support for humanitarian aid, with an additional eur 250 million. i'm turning to the presidency now. i hope that your presidency, our presidency of the european union, will also review the multiannual financial framework. and i have one more request for the member states: it's essential that they execute, that they execute quickly. they are running very slowly, not only the prr but also the cohesion policy funds. and one more request to both the commission and the council: we need to extend the deadline of the recovery and resilience plans. the 2026 deadline is an exaggerated one. parliament is available for that review.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr commissioner, dear fellow meps, europe is in crisis. it's not a simple statement, but it's a fact. the european union today does not have the resources to meet the current challenges, whether we are talking about the war in ukraine or price rises, whether we are talking about migration or the digital or green transition. the european union's budget for next year is simply insufficient for our common ambitions. while our global competitors pump huge sums into their economies, supporting their smes or farmers, europe is on the brakes of populists and has a purely bureaucratic approach. i repeat the european parliament's request to rapidly review the european budget in the long term so that europe has the resources it needs. in the 2024 budget, the european social democrats requested and obtained increased funds for agriculture, in particular for young farmers, additional funds for education, research and youth, financial resources dedicated to the transport sector, with regard to the northeast of romania and infrastructure in the danube area, support for emergency response mechanisms, but also for health programmes, funding for the expansion of the schengen area, including romania and bulgaria, protecting external borders and securing our external political action, especially in moldova, supporting social and support for the most disadvantaged. those central objectives of the union must continue to be adequately supported. figures are of no value unless the implementation of programmes and projects leads to a better life. we call on the european commission to increase the quality of its actions so that people can directly feel the benefits of the union budget.
on behalf of the left. mr president, the european parliament has achieved some important improvements in the community budget for 2024 and i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr mureşan and mr ušakovs, for their efforts, to which we have contributed all the shadow rapporteurs, from the group of the european people's party to the group of the left. but i'd like to see the elephant in the room. mr hahn, and my dear representatives of the spanish presidency, the budget for 2024 is 1.07% of european gdp. much lower, if we factor in inflation than the 2023 budget that's being run now. the increase we have made and achieved is based almost entirely on fresh money. this is only eur 44.5 million compared with the commission's initial proposal. conclusion: the commission has already decided to make a decision on the basis of the information provided by the commission and the council. the commission has already decided to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are fully used. the commission has already decided to adopt a proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of certain goods and services.
mr. president, you are my guest. i congratulate the negotiating parties and i am pleased that the interests of european citizens and businesses have been put first this time, since predictability is paramount in this difficult economic situation. however, the predictability was jeopardised by the fact that the original negotiating position of the majority on the left of parliament would have linked the adoption of the annual budget to the revision of the multiannual framework budget. hungary's position during the negotiations was that the annual budget cannot be held as a pledge to the mff review. the fact that the negotiating parties finally reached an agreement on the 24th budget within the usual deadline demonstrates that the hungarian position was correct and that the parliamentary pressure tactics failed. the vote on the next budget will ensure that eu resources important to the european economy, such as agricultural subsidies or the provision of cohesion funds, remain unchanged for the following year.
mr president, on 10 november we had the meeting of the conciliation committee where we reached the budget agreement for 2024 and i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs, the european commission and commissioner hahn and, of course, the spanish presidency on their work and efforts to achieve this agreement. a very necessary agreement to start a year that will be full of uncertainties, with various crises and global challenges, which can only be tackled if we have political will, but above all financial capacity. the agreement reached last friday is not a bad deal. we have been able to reinforce essential policies with almost 800 million euros, one of the highest figures in recent years. research on persistent covid, young farmers, the environment and climate action programme (life), culture through creative europe, the fight against gender-based violence and, of course, our erasmus students will also be able to count on this extra funding. and on the other hand, given the global context, humanitarian aid, the southern and eastern neighbourhood and, of course, the united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees in the near east can also benefit from these important economic reinforcements. but in this negotiation we have pushed the budget to the limit using all the flexibility instruments and leaving little room for possible unforeseen events. and this shows the need to revise the financial framework. i therefore ask the council and the presidency in particular for a final budgetary effort, a major budgetary effort, so that we can reach an agreement in the council in december and show that europe is where and with whom it needs to be.
mr. president, there are colleagues around here who think that distributing billions through the halls here in parliament is very difficult. the same colleagues feel that it's even harder not to forget who actually owns the money. i remind you whose money it is. the money is the citizens' money. the money belongs to romanians, italians, czechs and all other european citizens. this money is made by some people who get into a shooting range and leave their families at home to make a better life for them. this money is made by people who leave their own countries, who have to build other countries, and this money they don't enjoy. why isn't she happy? because they should have good schools, hospitals to european standards, safe highways for truckers and for everyone who uses the highway and they don't have them. why ? why ? there's only one reason. tell him what you want. thievery, spying, corruption is the big word. until we understand we have to take the money from the corrupt, we're not doing anything.
mr president, mr commissioner, mr council representative, we are here to discuss what tomorrow will be a positive vote on the 2024 budget. and even though it is only 1% of the eu's gdp, the eu budget actually has an impact on all eu citizens and represents something more than that 1%. it is a vision of a union between 27 member states in specific and essential areas, for example, to decarbonize the economy, to ensure sustainable employment for decades to come, to combat phenomena outside our borders, to support those most in need, particularly in gaza. and it is interesting that once again the far right, who speaks and makes youtube clips so much and shows that it is very concerned about the european union, not only does not participate in the debate, does not present any proposals, and is not even here in the sitting to discuss this budget. once again the far right fills its mouth to talk about nothing and then it doesn't even show up here for debate. it is important that we understand this dynamic, because in portugal we will have national elections and the far right will call for many of these measures, but it has not even set foot here to debate and to present solutions.
mr president, mr council representative, mr commissioner, the good news is that we have a budget for 2024. the bad news: there's too much! we have a reduced budget, a budget made at the expense of reducing the burden with the recovery and resilience fund in 2023, the nextgenerationeu, and with upgrades to the iter energy programme and the frontex mechanism. so a limited capacity to respond to the challenges we know today. all this shows the urgency of the revision of the european union's 2021-2027 multiannual framework. it is a matter of urgency to ask the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in ukraine is not affected by the current situation. the european union is a strategic partner in the development of the european union. for the euri line of debt charges. for disaster impact support, humanitarian aid or to deal with migration. we have indeed deferred problems with this budget to the second part of the budgetary period. we must do everything we can to ensure that citizens can trust the european union. and a european union capable of leading internationally. and this requires structural solutions that go beyond the multiannual budget and are reflected in the annual budgets.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, high representative, commissioner, colleagues, as the sun rose today, a beam of hope came to israel and gaza. after weeks of indiscriminate bombing, a humanitarian truce was achieved last night. this must be the beginning of the end of the nightmare that started with the terror of hamas and the death of more than 1 000 israelis. but punishing the civilian population in gaza was also not admissible, and it is not even effective, for peace is the only way to really eradicate the ideology of hamas from palestine and the region. every one of the thousands of civilians that lost their lives in gaza brought israel not one millimetre closer to long-lasting peace. this bloodshed must end for good. a permanent ceasefire, the full release of the hostages, is urgent and needed. we need a true political strategy with a viable political horizon. the far right in israel has no permanent solution to this conflict. we as europeans, we truly need to commit ourselves to the global effort of peace and the two-state solution.
mr president, mr high commissioner, mr commissioner, i would like to begin by thanking you for your clarity, your firmness and your determination at a time when the cacophony in the middle east is threatening to take us out of an active role in the middle east. yesterday, like thousands of citizens, i received in my personal email a request for help from a non-governmental organization, which at the time said: our teams still working in gaza are exhausted and terrified. we have children being operated on the hospital floor and amputated without anesthesia. in view of this, little more needs to be said. the right of israel to defend itself against hamas attacks is only legitimate if it is guided by the strictest respect for international humanitarian law. the half-talking time is over. the truce and the release of hostages announced today is a cause for hope but not enough. the european union must be clear about the demand for a final ceasefire, the release of the hostages, but also the end of violence in the west bank. we must fight for the defence of the two-state solution, the only one that guarantees peace.
madam president, we all know what companies need, because the diagnosis is already made. we have more legislation, more taxation and more bureaucracy, and less simplification, less competitiveness and less funding. what we have left in words is lacking in concrete action to support small and mediumsized enterprises, the 24 million engines of our economy. we need to drastically reduce the endless list of laws that increase the obligations of smes from year to year. we need to simplify the relationship between enterprises and the state and, above all, eliminate the obstacles they face in accessing finance. in portugal, we need to lower taxes now. we need structural reforms in health, education, housing, and it is unacceptable to have taxes and bureaucracies at the highest and public services at the lowest. only with economic growth do we have better wages and it is also with less bureaucracy that we make the country grow. this is no longer the time for discussion, this is the time for decisions, and have the courage to make them.
mr president, i ask you for the same tolerance of the previous speaker, because i have to defend the honour of my country and i will do it in portuguese. senhor weber, devo defender a honra do meu país pelo que aqui fez hoje. no meio do ataque às instituições espanholas, dirigiu-se ao governo do meu país e chamou corrupto ao governo do meu país. desrespeitou assim portugal. peço à mesa deste parlamento (o senhor presidente tinha falado na importância do cuidado com a terminologia usada), peço à mesa deste parlamento que avalie o que fez aqui o senhor weber. desrespeitou portugal, desrespeitou um governo democrático europeu. e digo-lhe mais: não descerei, não descerei ao seu nível! não descerei ao seu nível. sempre lhe lembrarei apenas que antónio costa se demitiu para deixar funcionar a justiça sem estar acusado de nada. no seu governo de espanha, do pp de rajoy, esse governo foi derrubado por terem sido condenados por corrupção, e rajoy agarrou-se ao poder até ao fim e foi derrubado por uma maioria parlamentar. é muito mau o que aqui fez hoje no ataque a um governo europeu, senhor weber. tivemos aqui o discurso inflamado também do senhor rangel, como também o tinha feito em espanha. o senhor rangel, com uma total desonestidade intelectual, veio a espanha fazer um discurso sobre a espanha una, sobre a constituição. o que escreveu ele em 2017, quando governava o pp em espanha por alturas do referendo na catalunha? rangel escreveu, e cito: «por mais que custe aos mais conservadores, a unidade de espanha só pode ser mantida com o modelo federal». e dizia mais: «é politicamente errada a fixação no argumento jurídico e legal. a constituição e as leis podem mudar. o argumento tem de ser político.» isto era rangel em 2017. agora é discursar em madrid na defesa do estado uno e da constituição. (o orador prossegue em língua espanhola) ahora, para terminar, hablaré unos segundos en español. hablemos también de esteban pons. esteban pons, antiguo diputado al parlamento, ha dicho esta última semana que el tribunal constitucional tendrá que decidir de qué lado está, si del lado de los constitucionalistas o del de los enemigos de la constitución. presidente, ¿qué respeto a la independencia de la justicia es esto? ¿hablan ustedes en la derecha de presión política sobre la justicia? pues les diré que la derecha española, con sus coaliciones con la extrema derecha, es la que está poniendo en cuestión el estado de derecho en europa (el presidente retira la palabra al orador).
mr president, no – i was expecting a blue card by mr weber to explain himself. i don’t want rangel to explain mr weber.
mr president, spain is not silent and neither are we. this parliament cannot be the refuge of those who run away from justice. and it cannot be the stage of those who want the disintegration of spain and the destruction of the constitution. this is a european debate. the sanchez agreement violates the constitution, but it also violates the treaties and european values. it's against the rule of law because it amnesties those who are convicted by justice, by votes. he's against the separation of powers because he wants to get politicians to control judges by vote. it's against equality because it asks all spaniards to pay off some people's debt in exchange for votes. to the millions who fill the streets in spain and do not shut up, i mean: europe will not shut up.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, some will ask what is new in hong kong and i say that in recent years there is nothing new under the sun in hong kong except the sharpening of the continuing struggles against fundamental rights and freedoms. this is one of the hallmarks of xi jinping's autocratic power, based on the emptying of the independence of the judiciary, overlapping the political verdict, and the fierce persecution of the contested voices inside and even, you see, the disintegration outside the territory. a situation which also extends to macau, let us not forget that after the revision of the national security law, in the image of the law imposed on macau, the electoral law was recently amended, excluding from any candidacy for head of the regional government and all those who are not considered patriots, that is, aligned with beijing, so that no one has any doubts. and all this without a right of appeal, because whoever can rule and xi jinping rules. once again, in the face of the oppression to which all democratic forces have been subjected, in the face of the mark of oppression to which the press and all activists have been subjected, we call once again for the immediate and unconditional release of jimmy lai and all pro-democracy activists, as well as the chinese-portuguese tsz lun kok and joseph john, who are being detained in hong kong. and we ask that the eu-china summit in december not be a mere diplomatic conversation. the approach to these issues must be clear and frank and consistent. we urge the authorities to stop stopping all journalists from working. we condemn the chinese authorities for violating the fundamental rights of the hong kong communities in the european union and call on all member states to suspend extradition treaties with china, hong kong and macau.
author. madam president, women in iran continue to risk their lives fighting for rights. armita geravand, who died at the age of 16 because she did not wear the hijab, is an example of this. nasrin sotoudeh, sakharov prize winning activist, however released, was detained at armita's funeral. i didn't wear a hijab. nobel peace prize winner narges mohammadi is in jail and without medical care for refusing to wear the hijab on transportation between prison and hospital. this year we will present the sakharov prize to maasa jina amini and the women, life, freedom movement, a gesture against the intolerable oppression and dehumanization of iranian women. we demand the release of all victims of arbitrary detention in iran, including european citizens like johan floderus. we condemn the practice of torture and the death penalty. we call on the member states to bring those responsible for these crimes to justice under international law. we call for the designation of the customs guard as a terrorist organization and for the extension of the sanctions framework against ali khamenei and his henchmen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on this international day for the elimination of violence against women, it is our duty to stand united against this inhuman practice. the european union is committed to combating violence against women by promoting legislation and policies that protect women's rights and provide support to victims. it has ratified the istanbul convention on the prevention and combat of violence against women and domestic violence. this powerful tool sets standards for crime identification and victim support, as it strengthens the legislative approach to violence against women. its implementation is essential to promote an environment where every woman lives without fear and with full respect for her rights. in this regard, i would like to thank my fellow members of the commission on gender equality for their hard work and dedication to the subject. let us join forces and raise our voices against all forms of violence, promoting equality and respect for all women.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a year later we are still here, with horror and anger, to look at the endless list of women killed, beaten and annihilated. i'm telling you again, there's no time left. to remind us once again that women do not die from natural disasters; they don't die because they're killed by an earthquake or a flood. they die because you kill them all by the hands of men: companions, former companions, men. we're talking about murder, a crime, a criminal who prey on the victim. and this crime has something special: the victims are all women and the killers are all men. and these men must be stopped. the culture that fuels their violence must be stopped because it has a specific name: it's called patriarchy. and so we're still here to remember that we've been trying to get this important work done for months. this parliament is doing a lot. but much is still not enough because we have not yet been able to get a minimum, ambitious and reasonable text that includes minimum things. two of them: the absence of consent is violence and the timing of the complaint does not affect the validity of the complaint itself. it's the least we can get for the blood of our sisters that we can't wash away and in their memory we must continue this battle together. and we're going to do it together. we're going to change everything.
mr president, we are in yet another debate marking the international day for the elimination of violence against women. for us, it is not just a question of calling for another moment, but of expressing our support and commitment to the fight of women against labour exploitation, inequality, discrimination and violence. violence against women takes on many forms: domestic violence, dating violence, female genital mutilation, sexual and labour harassment and prostitution, among others. all of them must be recognized as extreme expressions of injustice, inequality and discrimination, which manifest themselves in humiliation, disrespect for the physical and psychological integrity of the women who suffer them, and which undermine the dignity, social status and rights of all women. the autonomous treatment of the various forms of violence against women should be ensured by establishing intervention tools to recognise the impact on women's lives, by prioritising their prevention and combating and by eradicating them. it is also essential that member states strengthen victim protection mechanisms by implementing a decentralised public network, linked to the entities involved in this area, to ensure the proximity and equal access of women to information, referral, signalling and victim protection. measures that, in order to be implemented, require robust budgets and political will. violence against women is not a matter of delay and delay. you have to move from words to deeds. there can be no more excuses.
mr president, the increasing importance of digital in our lives, cyber-violence, creates another serious problem for women. one in ten, often young people, has been the victim of cyberbullying or harassment, or of blackmail practices known as revenge porn, where explicit sexual images or videos are shared without their consent. we therefore need a greater effort at european union level to ensure that the digital space is a safe place for women and girls. preventing, rather than remedying what often no longer has a cure, is actually what needs to happen. cyber-violence against women and girls is a digital plague that deserves a ceasefire fight from all of us.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, if i have a problem in a portuguese court, for example a family or even criminal matter, which requires a witness residing in france, germany, sweden or another member state, i risk seeing the case delayed long enough to be heard. it turns out that if justice is not swift, it often will not be justice. this regulation will facilitate the use of videoconferencing in oral hearings and enable all parties to communicate with the competent authorities electronically in the course of judicial proceedings. they themselves are obliged to communicate with each other through this medium. we will therefore avoid useless movements, speed up processes and save about 25 million euros a year in postal and paper costs. this is an important step towards the digitisation of judicial cooperation. however, we could have gone further. for example, requiring companies to communicate electronically in legal disputes involving more than one member state. madam vice president, in the 21st century no company, no matter what its size, can afford not to use digital media, and i think the pandemic has clearly shown this to those who hadn't realized it yet. i therefore hope that in future initiatives of this kind the commission, and also this parliament, will be a little more ambitious.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, it is evident that the substantial amount of work done to strengthen research careers in europe needs to be adequately implemented at all levels, if we want the real improvement of careers on the ground. the support of the european parliament will be paramount in this respect. the commission is fully committed to further strengthening the initiatives undertaken within the european research area and the horizon europe programme. i would like to respond to mr kelly and mr flego. the proposed council recommendation addresses adequate remuneration, including for young researchers. and the pilot for the attractive careers, which i mentioned, is extremely important to improve careers and working conditions of young people, and also young and early-career researchers. through the support for the implementation of the framework conditions, we expect young and early-career researchers to benefit from more attractive careers. this includes, for example, better remuneration and working conditions, more stable jobs, adequate social protection rights, inter-sector mobility experiences that are not only fostered but also properly valued, gender equal careers and a more balanced circulation of talents. at the same time, the horizon europe pilot call in support of attractive research careers that i mentioned earlier, they will provide us with information on what kind of initiatives could be put in place to foster a collective investment effort in support especially of young and early-career researchers. these measures will also allow europe to be more competitive in the global race for talents. we want to keep our talents in europe, and we want to have the conditions in place for being attractive for international talents – this is also part of my demography portfolio. to support implementation and to improve the situation on the ground, it is important to have data allowing for evidence-based decisions. in this regard, the research and innovation career observatory will play a crucial role. it will be developed in partnership with the oecd and will provide, on an annual basis, data and evidence on research and innovation careers, with a specific focus on skills and qualifications, on working conditions and employability, and on geographical and inter-sectorial mobility. and to conclude, please be reassured that research careers will remain high on the commission’s agenda, including in the era policy agenda 2025-2027, which is currently being discussed with member states, countries associated to horizon europe and other stakeholders.
thank you, vice-president. the debate is closed. the vote will be held at the next part-session. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. talking about young researchers means necessarily talking about the precariousness that prevails in the sector and that it is important to eradicate so that one can talk about its future. many researchers and other scientific workers, including phds, remain for years and years on scholarships, without employment contracts and the basic rights that are inherent in them, or as full-time employees, without the necessary stability that the job deserves and demands. we all know that there is no effective freedom of scientific and intellectual creation and production as long as precariousness is a cross-sectoral reality. in this respect, the defence of the labour rights of researchers and scientific workers, the promotion of careers, the establishment of stable employment contracts and access to social security with guarantees of protection against sickness, maternity, unemployment and retirement are fundamental measures. investment in science, knowledge and advanced human resources training is, of course, a key factor in promoting economic, social and cultural development in all countries of the european union. unfortunately, the strategy of some member states, the eu's tow, is market-based. the precariousness imposed on researchers is not inevitable; it's a wrong political choice that affects your work and your life!
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the left group is proposing this debate in parliament, in parliament's plenary session, because the revision of the rules of economic governance is a matter which will have a decisive impact on the future not only of economic policies but also, by extension, on the response of social policies, environmental and energy transition policies, social policies, poverty alleviation, public services, health and education. the debate on the rules of economic governance is therefore not a debate of the economic and monetary affairs committee and it is not understandable that it is being held in haste and in secret in that committee. if these rules affect the relationship between the european institutions and democratically elected governments, if these rules determine and will determine the future of european democracies, if these rules bring back austerity policies with all the might, then citizens have the right to know what the positions of all groups and all members of parliament are.
madam president, dear colleagues, we have a few months until the next european elections and things are looking worrying. facing the loss of credibility, it takes courage and leadership to convince citizens to vote. citizens need to see the strength of their vote, they need to know the european political parties, but also their common candidates for the presidency of the european commission. i also propose a ban on political racist movements at european level. too many meps elected from one european political family have migrated to another european political group. their decisions have undermined the credibility of the european elections and betrayed the confidence of citizens. europe and the european parliament must set the tone and regain confidence in european democracy. by providing more transparency and clear rules, we can ensure that citizens have confidence in the way the european union works. our joint proposals presented here provide a plus for the effectiveness of the elections for the european parliament and, in this context, i propose that we support them together.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work and i would like to stress one point: the role of european political parties and foundations in the campaign, which is long overdue and will be extremely important. we are still dependent on the application of a 2014 regulation which is a real administrative burden that stifles any initiative by european political parties to invest in the campaign. i think this is an abnormal situation. we need to fix this. we are discussing this with the council as part of a trilogue on adapting this system and i hope we will succeed in time so that european political parties can intervene and play their full part in this campaign, which has been forbidden to them until now. it would be a shame to leave the ground free to trolls, to rupert murdoch's press empire or to anyone and everyone who will cause a tsunami of counterfeits to spread online by june 9, 2024.
madam president, expected left, expected federalist, expected not much saying report in the best traditions of the european union. i congratulate the authors who look at me there smartly, who write and say with a lot of words little, little things that matter. i see they're happy, which is good. i'm serious about this. but this thing with the lead candidate, with federalism, won't happen to you very much, colleagues, won't happen to you. you wanted a lead candidate from the epp, you had a lead candidate. what did you do? you fought something, and you finally changed it. you put mrs. von der leyen in, she wasn't your leading candidate. someone else was your lead candidate, so you're not getting the job. i hear you are concerned, however, that in european countries the debates were not very european, they were national. so what are they? what would they be if not european, if they weren't important to the people in the countries that live things, wouldn't be martian? the schengen debate, for example, is important to us. so much federalism, zero results, but still success! - what? it's called a child. if you don't help, at least you don't hurt.
mrs president, this report insists, among other serious aspects, on the creation of transnational lists for the european parliament, which is intended to link potential candidates for president of the european commission. in addition to creating a gap between elected representatives and voters, such proposals would accentuate the imbalances and distortions already existing in the distribution of seats in the european parliament, represent an artificial creation that is not in line with reality in europe and would be contrary to a europe of cooperation between sovereign and equal rights states. what is needed is a redistribution of european parliament mandates to compensate the countries most affected by the redistribution of power in the council and mandates in the european parliament in the context of successive enlargements of the european union, as is the case with portugal. what is required is not a surrender of more sovereignty to the institutions of the european union, dominated by the great powers and the interests of economic groups, but respect for the sovereignty of the states and democracy. what is needed is not more liberalism, federalism, militarism of the european union, but a europe of cooperation, social progress and peace. (applause from the stand)
rest periods in the road transport sector, in particular in the tourism sector, are essential to ensure road safety and the right to rest for passenger transport workers. the proposal from the european commission to extend to drivers operating tourist routes within the same member state the derogation allowing drivers to organise their itinerary in such a way as to reduce nights away from home and thus rest ensures a level playing field, as this is already a reality in international passenger transport on tourist tours. the derogation ends the discrimination between drivers providing services on a national tourist circuit and drivers providing services on an international circuit. the application of the derogation is crucial to ensure that all workers are treated equally and fairly, without depending on crossing a border to gain full entitlement to rest.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are few, but few are good. the prevalence of mental health problems has reached unprecedented levels. between 2022 and 2023, one in two people in the european union suffers from depression and anxiety, and young people, who are our present and our future, have been particularly affected. almost half of young people in the european union say they do not have the mental health care they need, and the picture is even darker if we reflect that suicide is the second leading cause of death in this age group and the first cause of death among young adults over 25. we need action on mental health more than just talk, and the european parliament is thus preparing its first report on mental health on this important subject. with it we want to boost the initiatives the union can take to respond to this crisis, which already accounts for almost 4% of all deaths in the european union and whose expenditure exceeds 4% of european gdp. in this report, we want to make it clear that anyone, at any stage of their life, can find themselves in a more vulnerable situation. this report also aims to identify the social determinants of health and the most vulnerable groups and situations and propose concrete actions to mitigate them. it is important to recognize the difficult situations faced by different groups, whether they are young people, whether they are women, migrants, lgbtqia+ people, workers, marginalized people, or even those who find themselves in more than one of these groups experiencing a set of additional challenges that require increased effort. and to recognize that with mental health in all policies, we can propose intersectional measures, from social services to health services, education, work, across all sectors of society. but this cannot and should not be an individual battle. it's a social battle that cannot be ignored. in the workplace, for example, where we spend a significant part of our lives, about 27 percent of people suffer from symptoms of stress, depression or anxiety. there is a social transformation that is urgent. as representatives of the 450 million citizens of europe, we have a duty not only to warn but also to act. and we need more. there are three measures which i consider fundamental in this report for our mental health in the european union: the creation of a european strategy with well-defined goals, well-defined objectives, guiding indicators; more direct funding for a specific mental health mission; and the theme of next year's european year of mental health. it's time to desegregate. it's time to prioritize. it's time to invest in mental health. i would like to end by thanking all the negotiating teams, the shadow rapporteurs, the secretariat and also catia, catarina and vasco.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, sellafield is a nuclear waste and storage site on the west coast of england, less than 100 miles from the east coast of ireland. it stores 140 tonnes of plutonium, but it has been described as a bottomless pit of hell, money and despair. after a year-long investigation, the guardian newspaper revealed last week that there are very serious dangers at the site. first of all, it found that 2.3 cubic metres of radioactive sludge is being leaked into the ground in the region every single day. a european parliament report in 2003 said that an accident there could be worse than chernobyl. secondly, the investigation found that there is serious cyber attacks and vulnerability at the site, with sleeper malware embedded in its networks. thirdly, it also found a toxic management culture. there is an agreement between the eu and the uk post-brexit on nuclear energy, and i would call on you, commissioner, to use your office to raise these very serious findings of this investigation with your uk counterparts.
madam president, on 9 december 2022, the alleged corruption scandal within even the most prestigious european institutions, with qatar as the alleged corrupt, was reported in the press. few people today remember, however, that it was also in qatar that the strategy for islamic cultural action outside the islamic world was signed in 2000, a strategy for the influence of islamism in european countries. this islamist pact, adopted by more than 50 muslim countries, identifies the european union as an armed arm for building sharia-ruled islamic societies in europe, which eva kaïli calls simple lobbying, and which many observers treat as a sordid corruption case, could well be traced to the betrayal of our leaders, that is, they would have agreed to become agents of foreign influence, either by ideology or financial greed. it is scary to see that it is the belgian prosecutor, not the european union, who is restoring order and seeking the truth.
madam president, the dramatic situation facing the national health service calls for an immediate response. the portuguese and it is their healthcare that we are talking about can no longer bear the news of the emergencies they are closing, the family doctor they do not have, or the surgery or specialist consultation that is postponed. in this scenario, either health is left behind and disease is acute or access to health is left to those who can afford it. and that seems to be the goal set by the government: to divest, dismantle, denigrate the services so that parts of the national health service can be delivered to the private sector, which is like telling the disease business where 8 billion euros of the state budget for health are already going. but let those who want to bury the national health service be fooled. they will have to face the struggle of health professionals, the mobilisation of the populations who will continue to defend it, demanding the strengthening of technical and human resources, the enhancement of their professionals and their careers, guaranteeing the constitutionally enshrined right to health. and we're right next to you.
madam president, noncommunicable diseases are the leading cause of death in the european union. they represent 80% of deaths in the european union and while we are keen to have a true european union for health, we have not had time to debate this report. the european parliament also had the opportunity to act with this report on reducing the known risk factors for noncommunicable diseases, outlining actions to be taken, in particular in tobacco and new tobacco products and nicotine, alcohol and many others. if we want a real european union for health, we must make a transition from disease to health policy. this means investing more in the root of the problem. as a european parliament, we must lead by example and act in the prevention of disease and in the promotion of health. this is done through evidence-based health policies to ensure a healthy and sustainable future for europeans.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, madam commissioner, dear colleagues, let us speak of a portuguese immigrant in france who was diagnosed with a tumor in his throat that was being monitored. one day, while on holiday with his family in portugal, he had difficulty swallowing and went to the health care system. the european health data area will ensure that electronic health records are interoperable and will accompany the user regardless of where he or she is located. on arrival at the hospital in portugal, healthcare professionals will have immediate access to their electronic health record and access to invaluable information that allows the medical team to make a timely decision, increasing the chances of survival and quality of life of this citizen, while avoiding duplication or even triplication of resources. in addition, their data will contribute to science, innovation and the development of new therapies in the european union. naturally, throughout the process, data privacy and security are imperative priorities and our proposal ensures that the citizen has full control over them. this story shows how the european union can and should make a difference. by adopting this proposal, we are creating more effective health systems and higher quality care, while always preserving the privacy, control and security of the most sensitive information we know. this is a major step towards a european health union, where collaboration transcends borders, innovation is driven and where every european can believe in universal access to healthcare.
question by the blue card procedure. mr president, i would like to ask you if you have actually read this proposal, because what we are talking about in this regulation is the most sensitive data on each person. and my question is, have you read the proposal? because in the european parliament's proposal we have consent, we also have to opt out of secondary data, which goes beyond what the commission asks us to do, and we have to opt in to data that cannot be anonymised. so my question is, why are you misinforming people?
on behalf of the id group. mr president, mr commissioner, throughout my life i have placed the idea of good work and professional conscience at the heart of everything. a business can only work if everyone feels good and is simple to guarantee employment. we cannot deny the new challenges of digital and telecommunications work, which have become widespread and amplified during the health crisis. this observation led my country, france, to take the bull by the horns in 2016. at the time, the word covid was still confined to laboratories, yet the right to disconnect was already in our labour code. it should also be noted that more than half of the member states already have laws or initiatives on this subject, and most others are seriously discussing it. in short, we do not need the commission to act. as usual, brussels is taking this opportunity to intervene in the life of the states. this is especially true since the consequences of non-compliance with the right to disconnect (such as overwork, sickness or deteriorating mental health) will be borne by national health systems, and thus financed by the states themselves. let us deal with these issues which concern us first, since the states are paying. make no mistake, the european union is not the answer to everything. it's time for her to understand.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, three years ago this parliament adopted a legislative initiative report which aimed at introducing minimum standards of decency in distance working relationships, protecting family life, protecting working hours, the mental health of workers and seeking to prevent situations of workplace abuse. it was not a perfect report, but at the 25th hour, an agreement between the socialists and the right created a sabotage maneuver of this legislation, a three-year period for an agreement between the social partners, which seemed difficult because of the positions of employers, and so it was confirmed. the employers boycotted this social consultation agreement and now we are faced with the impending end of our term without fulfilling our commitments to the workers to pass this legislation. it is therefore important to urge the commission to submit a proposal as soon as possible, but it is also important that parliament assumes the responsibility for accepting this delay and for compromising the entry into force of such important legislation.
mr. president, with the rise of homework, telework, but also because of covid, we are increasingly using the internet and other means. there's more stress, people have health problems, anxiety, depression, burnout, and they can't get out of bed. they're always at work, demands on their work are always coming in, and they're forced to answer them. i think we should insist on respecting working hours, not accepting shorter deadlines and also on protecting employees in general and protecting their rights. they have the right to free time and the right to private space. i think we're all gonna agree on that. unfortunately, the social partners' negotiations have failed, and i would therefore ask the european commission from this point of view to insist on reopening the negotiations and to present a european regulation on the right to disconnect, which we will all agree on as soon as possible. we really have three years since this european parliament decided that we would like something like this. it's something we can all agree on, and it's our duty to protect the rights of employees, people, their health, because they have only one thing. and that mental health is one thing, and it's very difficult to get back to normal life.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for over two years we have given the social partners every opportunity to negotiate the right to unavailability. but two weeks ago, the employers ran away. apparently, they're not waiting for a deal at all. you might think: it's easy for them to be on standby 24/7 with all the consequences for the employees stress, depression, burnout just because people have to be on standby. but everyone should have the right to say: not right now. the commission, do not let this moment pass by and come up with a new bill to give workers the right to "now". we cannot expect that from employers, but we hope that the eu will. and then another message for commission president von der leyen. you will organise a conference in val duchesse next year to strengthen european social dialogue. take advantage of that moment. call the employers on the mat. are they still willing to participate in the social dialogue? or do they think lobbying a little will get them?
mr president, i remind you that the right to disconnect is the fundamental right of employees to disconnect, not to be contacted outside working hours. it is aberrant to hear employers still question this right today, in 2023. employers, managers, directors, even politicians, feel that this right is an obstacle to their business and an obstacle to their pursuit of profitability. to all those who still do not understand what a fundamental right is, i will quote a figure: 300 million. yes, my colleagues, 300 million people worldwide are suffering from depression and work-related mental disorders today. there is no doubt that a continuous connection for professional reasons can have serious consequences for the health of our citizens. the right to disconnect is therefore a fundamental right; the fact that it is included in eu law is obvious. i would like to thank you, commissioner schmit, for your commitment to this matter, as well as to all those you have been and continue to be involved in this parliament.
mr president, honourable commissioner, today's debate follows on from the debate in the european parliament and the proposal from the european parliament which called for a directive to be tabled in january 2021. we were dealing with the consequences of covid-19 back then, but not only that. digital technology is simply becoming the main work tool in many professions. and of course, this kind of online connection has negative effects on mental health, on personal life, but ultimately, on work outcomes. employees should be able to disconnect, rest and not be under constant pressure, stress, emergency and online. there is no legal framework at eu level yet. i thank the commissioner for starting again the negotiations, but it is obviously up to the member states to assess the situation themselves, the urgency and some countries have already taken such measures.
mr president, commissioner, three years ago this parliament made a clear demand: to create a right to disconnect for all europeans. since then, the culture of 'always available' has continued to affect workers' health. in a digital world of work, the boundaries between private and professional life are increasingly permeable. it is our responsibility to redefine them. for their own benefit, workers should be able to refrain from responding to any professional messages outside of working hours. i regret that the social partners have not reached an agreement, especially since they are the best placed to implement this right to disconnect. this right is in the interest of all. it enables workers to be more flexible and productive. it also enables employers to develop in a more serene business environment. mr commissioner, several member states have already introduced the right to disconnect. this is an additional stone for social europe which we call our wishes. let's not miss this appointment.
mr. chairman, please! more and more people are struggling with work-related stress. europeans in all occupational groups, from office workers to electricians, experience contact from the workplace in their spare time. i am therefore very disappointed that european employers have not been able to find common ground with the trade union movement. we cannot just expect the problem to go away on its own. well, even if you get paid for overtime, it's not good enough. everyone needs uninterrupted time with their family without having to pick up the phone. if employers do not want to help find a solution, the commission must act now. so, dear commissioner, we need solutions now. every day we hesitate, more people are suffering from stress. we have a mission. we must ensure that european workers have the right to turn off their phones.
mr president, today in this house we discussed and approved a report on mental health, knowing that this affects the majority of young europeans. we cannot advocate a mental health strategy while exacerbating the causes of mental illness, and so it is essential that we can have a disconnection strategy that is consistent with these rights. we must ensure that the same rights that apply to physical and face-to-face work are also transposed to digital. ensuring that there is no control by employers over remote work and ensuring that people can truly take time off work when they are at home and enjoy their lives and their families is essential to ensuring that we can all enjoy a more dignified and decent life. we know exactly what the word flexibility means. to ensure that there is flexibility in work - much of it a result of the pandemic - we need to ensure that this flexibility comes with strong rights and strong guarantees, so that people can effectively work in a decent and dignified way.
mr president, technological advances, the digitalisation of various sectors of activity and, more recently, the use of forms such as telecommunications, instead of relieving the burden of work with further reductions in working hours, are contributing to increasing the pace and exploitation of workers. the right to strike, based on the right concerns and attacks felt by workers every day at their workplaces, falls within a clever process, both perverse and ingenious, where, instead of demanding strict timetable, fighting abuses, it starts with the idea of unlimited availability that will need to be targeted. let us be clear: the requirements that are imposed are simple and enshrined. the working hours were kept, nothing more or less. fight the abuse. the material, human and financial conditions for labour inspections to fulfil their function are ensured. conciliation between work, personal and family life is promoted. reduced working hours to 35 hours per week. and so, clearly, without subterfuge, we fight the increase in exploitation, we ensure better mental health and better working and living conditions.
mr president, mr josep borrell, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, every day the humanitarian catastrophe in gaza is worsening: 17 or 18 000 dead, 5 000 children. words are lacking to describe this tragedy. it is legitimate that israel has the right to defend itself and that it is its goal to destroy hamas, after the unjustified death of so many jews, the miserable rapes, the kidnappings, the violence without a barracks. but ends do not justify any means. a terrorist killing of jews does not justify a killing of palestinians against international law. democracies don't behave like that. netanyahu has, over the years, been complacent with hamas in gaza, thus actively boycotting the two-state solution. the palestinians, who have been governed under the yoke of hamas with israel's tolerance, cannot all be turned into terrorists, into targets to be shot down. we must stop this war now, a humanitarian ceasefire that will stop this death and resume the release of all the hostages already held, that will lead to a lasting ceasefire and a resumption of the political process, that will lead to a two-state solution with security guarantees for both. it is not a war that lasts for a long time, which every day, every week, with thousands of deaths, leaves us a few years further from peace. in such a dark time, let's look back at the example of shimon peres, yasser arafat, isaac rabin who overcame decades of conflict to sign the oslo accords. the enemies of peace at the time did not like their actions and the solution of the enemies of peace is always the same: more violence, more deaths, more war. but violence only generates more and more violence. peace is not achieved by more war. let us remember here the words of the talmud: whoever saves a life saves the whole world.
mr president, mr commissioner, at the beginning of this conflict, we in the committee on foreign affairs had the opportunity to exchange views on the high degree of lethality that this war threatened and also the high level of destruction. two months later, we see unrwa saying it is on the edge of what is possible in terms of humanitarian aid. we are now reaching a point of no return: lack of water, food, electricity and even nowhere to run, because more than 85 percent of the population of palestine is currently displaced more than 80 percent of the population of the gaza strip and in the south we are witnessing tonight an intensification of the bombing. that's the news we get. where to run? nowhere. is humanitarian aid possible under bombing? - no, i'm not. so what we must do now is stop divisions and join you and antonio guterres in calling for a ceasefire, so that we can build a definitive two-state solution.
mr president, let me be clear: no military solution will solve a political problem, and the numbers show us that reality. more than 18 000 palestinians were murdered in gaza. israel also killed more than 100 un representatives and 60 journalists. but to achieve peace we need politics, not bombs. therefore, we need an immediate ceasefire with an exchange of hostages, a political deal to a two-state solution, the end of the israeli occupation in all palestine and the sending of un blue helmets to maintain future peace agreements. moreover, the eu should establish a palestine facility mechanism like we are negotiating for ukraine to rebuild critical infrastructure such as houses, schools, roads and sanitation systems. again, the solution is political, not militaristic. to finish, let me send my gratitude to bisan wizard and motaz azaiza, who are freely reporting from gaza. without you and many others, the world would be blind to the crimes against humanity.
mr president, mr high representative, the attempt by the guatemalan public prosecutor to annul the results of the presidential elections is unacceptable, as are the accusations against the president-elect and the supreme electoral court. in the face of this sad third-rate novel, orchestrated by a group of prosecutors on the basis of ridiculous arguments, the coup attempt seems real and very worrying. the european union must therefore support democratic forces and, if necessary, adopt sanctions against this attack on democracy and the rule of law, so that bernardo arévalo takes office as president on 14 january and a peaceful and lawful transfer of power is carried out. i have observed these elections and heard the wish of many guatemalans to see their vote respected, even if they surrendered their fear of the contrary, that they would not let their president take office. in the name of all of them, we will do everything we can to ensure that the will of the people who freely expressed themselves in the last elections prevails in guatemala.
mr president, the venezuelan regime is giving these days signs of wanting to reverse the timid progress made to end the political, economic and humanitarian crisis in which the country is plunged under the regime of nicolas maduro. the announcement of the prosecution and the threat of detention weighing on claudia macero, pedro urruchurtu and henry alviárez, key collaborators of opposition leader corina machado, is a bad news. all indications are that it seems to be more of a political than a legal impulse. it also crosses with the agitation of the territorial conflict over the ownership of the territory of the essequibo; another classic when some authoritarian regime wants to clear up management problems and silence critical voices. in this case, it is about associating the opposition with the positions held by guyana, identifying them with the alleged enemies of venezuela and thus contaminating an open and fully democratic electoral debate and confrontation in the country. we therefore call for sanity, for further exploration of dialogue as a solution to the venezuelan crisis and for the rebuilding of relations with guyana.
mr president, mr high representative, the venezuelan people deserve more and deserve better. and it cannot be used as cannon fodder for nicolas maduro's delirious delights. maduro knows that. faced with the opposition and maria corina machado's assertion and like putin he seeks the oldest trick of all tyrants: the mirage of conquering territory to hide the total failure of his rule. of course, the discovery of large oil reserves in essequibo helps. of course, dissatisfied with the waste you are making of venezuela's reserves, you are no longer satisfied with them and you want to waste those of essequibo as well. the international court of justice has already ruled this month that the venezuelan regime cannot unilaterally change the status quo in essequibo. maduro rejects the instruction, as if the sham of a referendum could grant the right to annexation. we have another ukraine, now in latin america. what are we going to do, europe? what does the high representative think? what are you going to do to show that we are against this profoundly illegal act from the standpoint of international law?
mr president, for me, our current policy towards venezuela must be summed up in two words: prudence and demand. prudence because since the signing of the barbados agreements, the regime's response has been utterly disappointing. he ordered the suspension of the effects of the primaries and reiterated the inhabilitation of maria corina machado, and the attorney general issued arrest warrants against numerous political leaders. one of them, roberto abdul, has already been arrested. in this context, the european union should not consider lifting sanctions against the regime. i believe, mr borrell, that both you and the spanish foreign minister were reluctant to propose a review of european sanctions. prudence, i insist. this is not the first time the regime has used negotiations like those in barbados as a ploy to simply gain time and gain concessions from the international community. on the other hand, demand, he said. the international community has to be demanding of maduro's regime. we are playing on democracy, freedom and respect for human rights, not just oil concessions. the regime must take clear positive steps and ensure democratic presidential elections as soon as possible. that presupposes that candidates have full freedom to participate in them, including maria corina machado, and the release of political prisoners, some three hundred.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your support. it is not clear who thinks that the serious impact of the coercive measures imposed by the united states of america and the european union against venezuela and its people will be discussed here. no, what this debate is about is to align the european parliament with the interests of the united states of america and multinationals such as exxonmobil, in the face of the sovereign decision of the venezuelan people to politically reaffirm what they consider to be their rights over a disputed territory. i remember that the dispute over the essequibo region, which venezuela and guyana have maintained for over a century, is a legacy of british colonialism, which has remained unresolved for decades. we believe that this dispute must be resolved without external interference and through negotiations under the geneva agreement of 1966 in order to reach a fair, satisfactory and friendly agreement for both parties. and in this respect, we welcome the mediation initiative promoted by celac.
mr president, colleagues, various risks to the economic security of the european union are identified: the resilience of value chains, the security of critical infrastructure, technological security or economic dependence and coercion. just to name a few examples, but they're all critical. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used to finance the implementation of the programme. we need progress on the mechanisms for evaluating foreign direct investment, on its implications for supply chains, on technology transfer or on critical union infrastructure such as ports. it is essential that member states which do not have a national assessment mechanism should set up such a mechanism. to continue to benefit from openness in a global context, a principle inherent in it, the european union needs to have the mechanisms to protect it from risk.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, relations between the european union and china must continue to be guided by the principles of cooperation wherever possible, competition when essential, confrontation when necessary. we must continue to demand a trade and investment relationship based on reciprocity and fairness, with economic diplomacy that contributes to promoting fair and equitable conditions for europeans to access the chinese market; work to limit the risks posed by china's acquisition of critical infrastructure in the european union; and implement greater control in the internal market. in addition to all these objectives, the requirement of respect for universal human rights is a founding principle of the european union. we will therefore be able to strengthen the open strategic autonomy of the european union that we are advocating.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, council, dear president von der leyen, colleagues: president von der leyen, europe is once again facing an existential moment. european citizens were promised by you a geopolitical union. ukrainian citizens were promised unconditional support for their efforts to stop russia. today, both promises risk not being a long-lasting reality. as the usa discusses openly the withdrawal of their support to ukraine, the eu is also fighting over the budget and thus hasn’t yet responded decisively: ‘you can count on us for good’. the revision of the eu budget and the decisive opening of the negotiations with ukraine is what we want to hear tomorrow from the council. dear secretary of state, can you please convey that message? at this same moment, we are also challenged from the inside by viktor orbán, who keeps blackmailing the eu to be allowed to infringe the rule of law. president von der leyen, let me address you directly: if the commission now pays mr. orbán a fat cheque, it will be just the payment of a ransom. it will tell everyone that bullying does work. you need to explain here today: what are you deciding, and why are you deciding? because from the outside, i have to tell you, it looks really nasty. because, dear president, threats to the rule of law may come from many other bullies after this decision on orbán. after nurturing mr. orbán in its ranks for a decade, to see him then just grow wild and leave its ranks, the epp is now flirting with a new set of bullies that will be the orbáns of tomorrow. the epp didn’t even just flirt with the far right: it actually married them in italy, in sweden, in finland, and even in my country and in spain at the regional level. the far right’s growth was allowed, was fuelled by this support by the epp, but also by the financial crisis, by the lack of solidarity in the migratory crisis. but now it is the cost of living crisis that is allowing frustration and hatred to grow again. people are suffering from the cost of living crisis, and the council now needs to give a completely different signal, and that’s also what we await from you on the new fiscal rules. the trade unions, they are out there and they are saying to europe, ‘we reject the pro-cyclical austerity the council is discussing’. they are voicing the concerns of millions of europeans. the ball is now on your side, on the council side, we want you to listen to the cry of the people, don’t stay indifferent because we are here indeed to make a difference.
mrs president, the alliance between the socialists and the right-wing groups to bring back austerity policy to the european union will also have to be passed by the council. and the council will have to assess whether it wants to go back to the time when austerity policy produced negative results at all levels, including on the sustainability of public accounts, and whether it wants to go back to the time when the policies of democratically elected governments were suppressed, which we had during the troika memoranda, giving unprecedented powers discretionary powers and absolute powers to a european commission that learned nothing from the recent crises. if it does, it will only ensure that a large part of the member states of the european union will become a protectorate of the european commission and it will ensure that the principle of equality between member states will fall, for we know that a discretionary power of the european commission to impose budgetary restrictions will not apply to france in the same way as it will apply to portugal or greece. it is the principle of equality between states that is at stake, but also the ability of states to respond to the challenges that the european union itself poses to us: the energy transition and the fight against climate change and a social europe.
author. – madam president, commissioner schmit, remaining colleagues, today, many young people do not feel confident that they will enjoy a higher or even the same living standards as their parents did. students are unable to join their preferred university just because they cannot even rent a room. young workers find out that wages are low, even after five years or more of higher education, and many couples live in a limbo, unable to afford a home to gain independence or start a family. for the majority of these, the future, how they see it now is not a source of hope, but of frustration. the writing is on the wall. together we risk failing a whole generation. but there is still time to correct course and start delivering. and that time is right now. our group asked for this debate because we do care. we care for this young generation, and we think that europe has to be part of the solution. that is why the socialists and democrats defend a housing plan that ensures affordable and decent homes for all. europe needs more social, public, cooperative and affordable housing. this includes more european funding and better conditions for long-term public investment, but also changes to the state aid regime, defining housing as a service of general economic interests. we need better legislation, more investment. but europe is also the european central bank and the ecb should look at the consequences of their current policies. people are suffering and inflation has already come down significantly. the evidence is clear now. we risk an over tightening of the monetary policy and a recession as a consequence. each percentage point of unemployment in europe is 2 million people suffering. we shouldn’t accept this. the cost of living crisis already left many people with lighter grocery bags but heavier bills. it is hard to be positive about tomorrow when life gets so difficult today for so many people. that is why our political family brought forward the bring the bills down initiative, asking for direct support to the citizens. we are paying attention, we care. these daily struggles are not only the field where europe can make a difference. in fact, we must continue to act and act much earlier and provide solutions for a better quality of life. we stand by the committees that brought the social pillar into a reality. the porto summit was not just a beauty contest for nice pictures. with the good weather. we said it by then. it needs to continue to deliver concrete results. it means prioritising better jobs with fair wages. let us improve the youth guarantee and impose a ban on unpaid internships to ensure young people enter the job market swiftly and with better conditions. the agreement reached last night and i want to praise commissioner schmit and you, elisabetta gualmini, and so many that were there. this agreement regarding the platform workers legislation, it’s a great victory that we should celebrate as a parliament. this means less precariousness. labour rights for millions of workers that were deprived and still are deprived from any protection. we fought for it. hardly. we were fighting for many youngsters in europe that live in this reality. we are proud to say that we delivered on that promise just this evening. but we are here also to fight against poverty, particularly the poverty of children. the child guarantee must be the backbone of social policy, ensuring every kid has access to proper conditions. colleagues, making europe more social is not just the right thing, it’s also the smart thing. time and time again, our citizens speak out loud and they say they want a more social europe. our message is clear. you can count on the socialists and democrats to build a europe that works for the young people, because we care.
mr president, in portugal, young people leave their homes on average around the age of 30, according to data from 2022. and unlike liberal narratives, they don't do it by choice or lack of financial literacy. they do so because the cost of housing is unbearable: home benefits, which have been significantly exacerbated by the ecb's interest rate increases, while bank profits are reaching new highs; incomes that are always rising; the rising cost of living, which continues to tighten; low wages, which persist. this is all the more so when young people are being punished for their precariousness and low wage policies. the young people do not need more strategies, nor european years of youth, which, as we have seen, have not solved their problems but have deepened them. young people need concrete, immediate action, and it is time to invest in public housing, building, redeveloping and acquiring housing. it's time to lock down bail-outs and evictions, stop speculation and control the rent. it's time for young people to have the right to the future they dreamed of.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the measures taken are not distorted. however, in the european union today, a child can lose his parents from a legal point of view, of course when moving from one country to another. this is because the law applied to recognise parental responsibility is not the same and because some member states continue to not recognise certain families, such as those made up of same-sex couples. in practice, this means that a child can be deprived of many essential rights that affect his daily life and his future life - something as simple and as serious as not having someone to approve a study visit to his school, who enrolls him in extracurricular activity, who makes medical decisions for him if necessary - or even deprived of his succession rights to those who are his parents. i was aware of an extreme case of a same-sex couple's family who had moved from a member state after the birth of their baby. the mother, who has a biological connection to the child, was in terminal condition. the member state in which the child was born did not, however, recognise the parenthood of the other mother. therefore, there was a risk that the child's custody would be given to other relatives, with whom she had no close connection. unfortunately, the cruel suggestion given to the biological mother was to die in another member state that recognized the parentage of both mothers. this is not the case in the european union of the 21st century, which is so proud of respect for human rights in its diversity. in order to ensure the rights of children, it is therefore essential that we provide clarity and legal certainty to all types of families that are moving, residing and existing in the countries of the union. it should be recalled that, apart from this proposal, the court's interpretation of union law already provides that parenting established in one member state is to be recognised in all other member states, but only for the purposes of applying union law, such as access to the territory, the right of residence and non-discrimination against nationals. what this proposal brings back are two fundamental things. first, it allows children, in crossborder situations, to also not lose the rights under national law in matters such as succession, maintenance, custody, or the right of parents to act as legal representatives of the child, for example for school or health purposes. secondly, it creates a european certificate of membership which guarantees access to all these rights and which must be accepted by all member states. as rapporteur, i hope that access to this certificate will be simple, without unnecessary red tape, without repeatedly requesting the same information and taking advantage of digital communication. i would like to say that i support this proposal and the basic principle underlying it: the family of a child can vary within the union. all children have the right not to lose the protection of those they consider their parents or mothers. your love has no boundaries and the law must not impose them.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his comments and i also thank my colleagues from the various political groups who have come here today to support this report. we are not talking about the rental belly business, and whoever tries to deflect the debate is because he didn't have the courage to say here that he doesn't care about these children and even less about their families. we are talking about children who have already been born, who have been born here next to us, who are not even children born in third countries, who live within the european union. it is not acceptable that they have access to fewer rights because of the way they were born or the family they belong to. how can we justify that a parent cannot visit a child in the hospital because he is not recognized as such? we are also not changing the family law of the member states. they will only have to recognize, as the commissioner said, that a child has the same family as that which has already been recognized in another member state. and as for this, there can be no exceptions, dear colleagues. there are no acceptable interruptions when we think about the love and affection that children have right to in the family where they grow up, whatever it may be. on behalf of all these children and their families, what do i have to wait for? that the council is as sensitive to the rights of children as parliament was in this report.
madam president, in the catholic tradition and in the orthodox tradition, we will celebrate christmas in the coming weeks. and it's good to remember that mikalai statkevich, but also polina panasyuk, a young mother of two, will be away from their families. this is an absolutely intolerable condition. they're being held alone and simply because they asked for freedom and democracy for their people. this should make us all think and mobilize around the next sanctions package. in the next package of sanctions, mr lukashenko cannot go unpunished.
the commissioner has been aware of the slow and silent genocide in tibet over the years, far from the television cameras, far from the spotlight, far from the media. but that's not what's going to silence us, nor is it what's going to make us forget what's happening every day to the tibetan people. the kidnapping of children, their indoctrination in chinese colonial boarding schools and their transformation into obedient citizens of the chinese communist party constitute gross violations of human rights, guided by the single goal of killing and exterminating tibetan identity, history, culture and language. when i look at the conclusions of the recent eu-china summit, i can only say to you, commissioner, as a portuguese song says: 'know me a little bit.' i know very little about what is happening in tibet. i hope that the next human rights dialogue will not be a mere diplomatic dialogue, and that we can have much more than a two- or three-word reference on tibet. but if others keep quiet, we will not be silenced in the defense of the tibetan people. we demand an immediate end to repressive policies of assimilation and coercion, as well as the practice of family separation. we demand the release of panchen lama and no interference in the appointment of the tibetan spiritual leader. the tibetan people must once and for all respect their ancient autonomy.
mr president, commissioner, council, dear colleagues, how much does the climate emergency cost? it costs five million lives a year, and it's these frightening numbers that move us. i congratulate the focus of this cop on finally having a day dedicated to health and its effects on climate change. the cop final agreement reinforces this by stressing the need to improve the resilience of health systems and reduce the impact of the climate emergency on health, particularly in the most vulnerable communities. but committing to the global energy transition away from fossil fuels is a first step in the right direction, but it's not enough. we need to be clearer. it is urgent to phase out fossil fuels, because only then can we reach the 1.5 degree celsius target. and we're already too late, let's just say. in the european union, we need to lead by example, with ambitious goals and targets in all sectors, but also ensuring that we leave no one behind, because only then will we ensure a healthy and sustainable future for all.
